FILE:MET/MET-8K-20081113174342.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Form 8-K
 
  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
 
  Soliciting material pursuant to under the Exchange Act (17 CFR
o
Rule 14a-12
240.14a-12)
 
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to under the Exchange Act (17 CFR
o
Rule 14d-2(b)
240.14d-2(b))
 
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to under the Exchange Act (17 CFR
o
Rule 13e-4(c)
240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
MetLife, Inc. (the "Company" or "MetLife") is filing this Current Report on to update the Consolidated Financial Statements and Financial Statement Schedules included within Item 8 of Part II of the Company's Annual Report on for the year ended December 31, 2007 (the "2007 Annual Report"), as well as the Selected Financial Data included within Item 6 of Part II of the 2007 Annual Report and portions of Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included within Item 7 of Part II of the 2007 Annual Report. These sections of the Company's 2007 Annual Report are being updated to reflect the results of Reinsurance Group of America, Incorporated ("RGA") as discontinued operations as a result of the disposition by the Company of RGA on September 12, 2008. The information presented herein has also been updated to reflect the sale of certain real estate operations as discontinued operations. The disposition of RGA resulted in the elimination of the Company's Reinsurance segment. The Reinsurance segment was comprised of the results of RGA, which at disposition became discontinued operations of Corporate & Other, and the interest on economic capital, which has been reclassified to the continuing operations of Corporate & Other. The impact of the disposition of the Company's investment in RGA is reflected in the Company's Quarterly Report on as of and for the three months and nine months ended September 30, 2008. The following is a description of the transaction and its impact on the consolidated financial statements of the Company:
Form 8-K
Form 10-K
Form 10-Q
 
On September 12, 2008, the Company completed a tax-free split-off of its majority-owned subsidiary, RGA. The Company and RGA entered into a recapitalization and distribution agreement, pursuant to which the Company agreed to divest substantially all of its 52% interest in RGA to the Company's stockholders. The split-off was effected through the following:
 
 
As a result of completion of the recapitalization and exchange offer, the Company received from MetLife stockholders 23,093,689 shares of the Company's common stock with a fair market value of $1,318 million and, in exchange, delivered 29,243,539 shares of RGA Class B common stock with a net book value of $1,716 million. The resulting loss on disposition, inclusive of transaction costs of $60 million, was $458 million. The 3,000,000 shares of RGA Class A common stock retained by the Company are marketable equity securities which do not constitute significant continuing involvement in the operations of RGA; accordingly, they have been classified within equity securities in the consolidated financial statements of the Company at a cost basis of $157 million which is equivalent to the net book value of the shares. The cost basis will be adjusted to fair value at each subsequent reporting date. The Company has agreed to dispose of the remaining shares of RGA within the next five years. In connection with the Company's agreement to dispose of the remaining shares, the Company also recognized, in its provision for income tax on continuing operations, a deferred tax liability of $16 million which represents the difference between the book and taxable basis of the remaining investment in RGA.
 
Item 6, parts of Item 7 and Item 8 of Part II of the 2007 Annual Report are being filed as Exhibits 99.1, 99.2 and 99.3, respectively, to this report and are hereby incorporated by reference herein. No Items of the 2007 Annual Report other than those identified above are being revised by this filing. Information in the 2007 Annual Report is generally stated as of December 31, 2007 and this filing does not reflect any subsequent information or events other than the changes described above. Without limitation of the foregoing, this filing does not purport to update the Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contained in the 2007 Annual Report for any information, uncertainties, transactions, risks, events or trends occurring, or known to management, other than the events described above. More current information is contained in the Company's March 31, 2008, June 30, 2008 and September 30, 2008 Quarterly Reports on and other filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). This report should be read in conjunction with the 2007 Annual Report, subsequent Quarterly Reports on and other filings made by the Company with the SEC.
Form 10-Q
Form 10-Q
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
METLIFE, INC.
 
Name:     Joseph J. Prochaska, Jr.
 
Date: November 13, 2008
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 12
 
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 23
 
 
We consent to the incorporation by reference in Registration Statement Nos. and on and and on of our report on the consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedules of MetLife, Inc., and subsidiaries (the "Company") dated February 28, 2008 (except with respect to our opinion on the consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedules insofar as it relates to the effects of the split-off of Reinsurance Group of America, Incorporated, as described in Note 2 of the consolidated financial statements as to which the date is November 13, 2008) (which expresses an unqualified opinion and includes an explanatory paragraph regarding changes in the Company's method of accounting for deferred acquisition costs and for income taxes as required by accounting guidance adopted on January 1, 2007, and its method of accounting for defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans as required by accounting guidance adopted on December 31, 2006), which appears in this Current Report on Form 8-K, and our report on the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting dated February 28, 2008, as of December 31, 2007.
333-147180,
333-147180-01,
333-147180-02,
333-147180-03,
333-147180-04
333-147180-05
Form S-3
333-148024,
333-139384,
333-139383,
333-139382,
333-139380,
333-121344,
333-121343,
333-121342,
333-102306,
333-101291,
333-59134
333-37108
Form S-8
 
/s/  
DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP
 
New York, New York
November 13, 2008

 
EXHIBIT 99.1
 
 
 
The following selected financial data has been derived from the Company's audited consolidated financial statements which have been updated as described in Item 8.01 of this Current Report on as well as from the Consolidated Financial Statements and Financial Statement Schedules included within Item 8 of Part II of the Company's Annual Report on for the year ended December 31, 2007 (the "2007 Annual Report"), as updated by Exhibit 99.3 to this Current Report on The statement of income data for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 and the balance sheet data as of December 31, 2007 and 2006 have been derived from the Company's audited financial statements included as Exhibit 99.3 to this Current Report on The statement of income data for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003 and the balance sheet data as of December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 have been derived from the Company's audited financial statements not included herein. The selected financial data set forth below should be read in conjunction with "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" as included in the Company's 2007 Annual Report, portions of which have been updated by Exhibit 99.2 to this Current Report on
Form 8-K
Form 10-K
Form 8-K.
Form 8-K.
Form 8-K.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Real Estate
 
In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 144, ("SFAS 144"), income related to real estate sold or classified as held-for-sale for transactions initiated on or after January 1, 2002 is presented as discontinued operations. The following information presents the components of income from discontinued real estate operations:
Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets
 
 
Operations
 
In September 2007, September 2005 and January 2005, the Company sold its MetLife Insurance Limited ("MetLife Australia") annuities and pension businesses, P.T. Sejahtera ("MetLife Indonesia") and SSRM Holdings, Inc. ("SSRM"), respectively. In accordance with SFAS 144, the assets, liabilities and operations of MetLife Indonesia, SSRM and MetLife Australia have been reclassified into discontinued operations for all years presented. The following tables present these discontinued operations:
 
 
 
On September 12, 2008, the Company completed a tax-free split-off of its majority-owned subsidiary, Reinsurance Group of America, Incorporated (RGA"), as described in Item 8.01 of this Current Report on as well as in the Consolidated Financial Statements and Financial Statement Schedules included within Item 8 of Part II of the 2007 Annual Report, as updated by Exhibit 99.3 of this Current Report on In accordance with SFAS 144, the assets, liabilities and operations of RGA have been reclassified into discontinued operations for all years presented. The following tables present these discontinued operations:
Form 8-K,
Form 8-K.
 
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.2
 
 
For purposes of this discussion, "MetLife" or the "Company" refers to MetLife, Inc., a Delaware corporation incorporated in 1999 (the "Holding Company"), and its subsidiaries, including Metropolitan Life Insurance Company ("MLIC").
 
The information contained herein updates selected sections of Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations as previously presented within Item 7 of Part II of the Company's Annual Report on for the year ended December 31, 2007 (the "2007 Annual Report"). As more fully described in Item 8.01 of this Current Report on as well as in the Consolidated Financial Statements and Financial Statement Schedules included within Item 8 of Part II of the 2007 Annual Report, as updated by Exhibit 99.3 of this Current Report on sections of the Company's 2007 Annual Report are being updated to reflect the results of Reinsurance Group of America, Incorporated ("RGA") as discontinued operations as a result of the disposition by the Company of RGA on September 12, 2008. The information presented herein has also been updated to reflect the sale of certain real estate operations as discontinued operations. The disposition of RGA resulted in the elimination of the Company's Reinsurance segment. The Reinsurance segment was comprised of the results of RGA, which at disposition became discontinued operations of Corporate & Other, and the interest on economic capital, which has been reclassified to the continuing operations of Corporate & Other. The sections of Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations as previously presented within Item 7 of Part II of the 2007 Annual Report that are being updated are as follows:
Form 10-K
Form 8-K,
Form 8-K,
 
 
 
The Results of Operations related to the Reinsurance segment are also being eliminated by way of these updates. Those sections of the 2007 Annual Report, which have not been updated are unchanged, or not materially changed, by the impact of the disposition of RGA; are more meaningfully presented prior to the reclassification of RGA as discontinued operations; or have been subsequently updated through the Company's Quarterly Report on as of and for the three months and nine months ended September 30, 2008, including the risk factors and cautionary language regarding forward looking statements contained therein.
Form 10-Q
 
Executive Summary
 
MetLife is a leading provider of insurance and other financial services with operations throughout the United States and the regions of Latin America, Europe, and Asia Pacific. Through its domestic and international subsidiaries and affiliates, MetLife offers life insurance, annuities, automobile and homeowners insurance, retail banking and other financial services to individuals, as well as group insurance, reinsurance and retirement & savings products and services to corporations and other institutions. Subsequent to the disposition of RGA and the elimination of the Reinsurance segment, MetLife is organized into four operating segments: Institutional, Individual, Auto & Home and International, as well as Corporate & Other.
 
The management's discussion and analysis which follows isolates, in order to be meaningful, the results of the acquisition of The Travelers Insurance Company, excluding certain assets, most significantly, Primerica, from Citigroup Inc. ("Citigroup"), and substantially all of Citigroup's international insurance businesses (collectively, "Travelers") in the period over period comparison as the Travelers acquisition was not included in the results of the Company until July 1, 2005. The Travelers' amounts which have been isolated represent the results of the Travelers legal entities which have been acquired. These amounts represent the impact of the Travelers acquisition; however, as business currently transacted through the acquired Travelers legal entities is transitioned to legal entities already owned by the Company, some of which has already occurred, the identification of the Travelers legal entity business will not necessarily be indicative of the impact of the Travelers acquisition on the results of the Company.
 
As a part of the Travelers acquisition, management realigned certain products and services within several of the Company's segments to better conform to the way it manages and assesses its business. Accordingly, all prior period segment results have been adjusted to reflect such product reclassifications. Also in connection with the Travelers acquisition, management has utilized its economic capital model to evaluate the deployment of capital based upon the unique and specific nature of the risks inherent in the Company's existing and newly acquired businesses and has adjusted such allocations based upon this model.
 
Year ended December 31, 2007 compared with the year ended December 31, 2006
 
The Company reported $4,180 million in net income available to common shareholders and earnings per diluted common share of $5.48 for the year ended December 31, 2007 compared to $6,159 million in net income available to common shareholders and earnings per diluted common share of $7.99 for the year ended December 31, 2006. Net income available to common shareholders decreased by $1,979 million, or 32%, for the year ended December 31, 2007 compared to the 2006 period.
 
The decrease in net income available to common shareholders was primarily due to a decrease in income from discontinued operations of $3,172 million, net of income tax. This decrease in income from discontinued operations was principally driven by a gain of $3 billion, net of income tax, on the sale of the Peter Cooper Village and Stuyvesant Town properties in Manhattan, New York, that was recognized during the year ended December 31, 2006. Also contributing to the decrease was lower net investment income and net investment gains (losses) from discontinued operations related to real estate properties sold or held-for-sale during the year ended December 31, 2007 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2006. In addition, there was lower income from discontinued operations related to the sale of MetLife Insurance Limited ("MetLife Australia") annuities and pension businesses to a third party in the third quarter of 2007 and lower income from discontinued operations related to the sale of SSRM Holdings, Inc. ("SSRM") resulting from a reduction in additional proceeds from the sale received during the year ended December 31, 2007 as compared to the year December 31, 2006. This decrease was partially offset by higher income from discontinued operations related to RGA, which was reclassified to discontinued operations in the third quarter of 2008 as a result of a tax-free split-off. RGA's income was higher in 2007, primarily due to an increase in premiums, net of an increase in policyholder benefits and claims, due to additional in-force business from facultative and automatic treaties and renewal premiums on existing blocks of business combined with an increase in net investment income, net of interest credited to policyholder account balances, due to higher invested assets. These increases in RGA's income were offset by an increase in net investment losses resulting from a decline in the fair value of embedded derivatives associated with the reinsurance of annuity products on a funds withheld basis.
 
An increase in other expenses of $580 million, net of income tax, decreased net income available to common shareholders. The increase in other expenses was primarily due to higher amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs ("DAC") resulting from business growth, lower net investment losses in the current year and the net impact of revisions to management's assumption used to determine estimated gross profits and margins in both years. In addition, other expenses increased due to higher compensation, higher interest expense on debt and interest on tax contingencies, the net impact of revisions to certain liabilities in both periods, asset write-offs, higher general spending and expenses related to growth initiatives, partially offset by lower legal costs and integration costs incurred in the prior year.
 
An increase in interest credited to policyholder account balances associated with an increase in the average policyholder account balance decreased net income available to common shareholders by $365 million, net of income tax.
 
Partially offsetting the decrease in net income available to common shareholders was an increase in net investment income of $1,160 million, net of income tax, primarily due to an increase in the average asset base and an increase in yields. Growth in the average asset base was primarily within fixed maturity securities, mortgage loans, real estate joint ventures, and other limited partnership interests. Higher yields was primarily due to higher returns on fixed maturity securities, other limited partnership interests excluding hedge funds, equity securities and improved securities lending results, partially offset by lower returns on real estate joint ventures, cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, hedge funds and mortgage loans. Management anticipates that investment
 
income and the related yields on other limited partnership interests may decline during 2008 due to increased volatility in the equity and credit markets during 2007.
 
Additionally, there was a decrease in net investment losses of $537 million, net of income tax, primarily due to a reduction of losses on fixed maturity securities resulting principally from the 2006 portfolio repositioning in a rising interest rate environment, increased gains from asset-based foreign currency transactions due to a decline in the U.S. dollar year over year against several major currencies and increased gains on equity securities, partially offset by increased losses from the mark-to-market on derivatives and reduced gains on real estate and real estate joint ventures.
 
The net effect of increases in premiums, fees and other revenues of $1,049 million, net of income tax, across all of the Company's operating segments and increases in policyholder benefit and claims and policyholder dividends of $600 million, net of income tax, was attributable to overall business growth and increased net income available to common shareholders.
 
The remainder of the variance is due to the change in effective tax rates between periods.
 
Year ended December 31, 2006 compared with the year ended December 31, 2005
 
The Company reported $6,159 million in net income available to common shareholders and diluted earnings per common share of $7.99 for the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to $4,651 million in net income available to common shareholders and diluted earnings per common share of $6.16 for the year ended December 31, 2005. Excluding the acquisition of Travelers, which contributed $317 million during the first six months of 2006 to the year over year increase, net income available to common shareholders increased by $1,191 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the 2005 period.
 
Income from discontinued operations consisted of net investment income and net investment gains related to real estate properties that the Company had classified as available-for-sale or had sold and, for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, the operations of RGA, which were reclassified as discontinued operations effective with the tax-free split-off in the third quarter of 2008 and the operations and gain upon disposal from the sale of SSRM on January 31, 2005 and for the year ended December 31, 2005, the operations of P.T. Sejahtera ("MetLife Indonesia") which was sold on September 29, 2005. Income from discontinued operations, net of income tax, increased by $1,616 million, or 92%, to $3,372 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 from $1,757 million for the comparable 2005 period. This increase was primarily due to a gain of $3 billion, net of income tax, on the sale of the Peter Cooper Village and Stuyvesant Town properties in Manhattan, New York, as well as a gain of $32 million, net of income tax, related to the sale of SSRM during the year ended December 31, 2006. This increase was partially offset by gains during the year ended December 31, 2005 including $1,193 million, net of income tax, on the sales of the One Madison Avenue and 200 Park Avenue properties in Manhattan, New York, as well as gains on the sales of SSRM and MetLife Indonesia of $177 million and $10 million, respectively, both net of income tax. In addition, there was lower net investment income and net investment gains from discontinued operations related to other real estate properties sold or held-for-sale during the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the year ended December 31, 2005. RGA's income was higher in 2006, primarily due to an increase in premiums, net of an increase in policyholder benefits and claims, due to additional in-force business from facultative and automatic treaties and renewal premiums on existing blocks of business. The increase in policyholder benefits and claims was partially offset by unfavorable mortality in the prior period. The increase in income was also due to an increase in net investment income, net of interest credited to policyholder account balances, due to higher invested assets resulting from the issuance of notes and a collateral financing facility. The issuance of the notes and a collateral financing facility resulted in higher interest expense within other expenses, which was also higher due to increased expenses associated with DAC, including reinsurance allowances paid. Increased net investment losses also partially offset the increase in income from RGA.
 
Net investment losses increased by $830 million, net of income tax, to a loss of $902 million, net of income tax, for the year ended December 31, 2006 from a loss of $72 million, net of income tax, for the comparable 2005 period. Excluding the impact of the acquisition of Travelers, which contributed a loss of $191 million, net of income tax, during the first six months of 2006 to the year over year increase, net investment losses increased by $639 million. The increase in net investment losses was due to a combination of losses from the mark-to-market on derivatives and
 
foreign currency transaction losses during 2006, largely driven by increases in U.S. interest rates and the weakening of the dollar against the major currencies the Company hedges, notably the euro and pound sterling.
 
Dividends on the Holding Company's Series A preferred shares and Series B preferred shares ("Preferred Shares") issued in connection with financing the acquisition of Travelers increased by $71 million, to $134 million for the year ended December 31, 2006, from $63 million for the comparable 2005 period, as the preferred stock was issued in June 2005.
 
The remainder of the increase of $285 million in net income available to common shareholders for the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the 2005 period was primarily due to an increase in premiums, fees and other revenues attributable to continued business growth across all of the Company's operating segments. Also contributing to the increase was higher net investment income primarily due to an overall increase in the asset base, an increase in fixed maturity security yields, improved results on real estate and real estate joint ventures, mortgage loans, and other limited partnership interests, as well as higher short-term interest rates on cash equivalents and short-term investments. These increases were partially offset by a decline in net investment income from securities lending results, and bond and commercial mortgage prepayment fees. Favorable underwriting results for the year ended December 31, 2006 were partially offset by a decrease in net interest margins. These increases were partially offset by an increase in expenses primarily due to higher interest expense on debt, increased general spending, higher compensation and commission costs and higher expenses related to growth initiatives and information technology projects, partially offset by a reduction in Travelers' integration expenses, principally corporate incentives.
 
Results of Operations
 
Discussion of Results  The Company
 
The following table presents consolidated financial information for the Company for the years indicated:
 
 
Year ended December 31, 2007 compared with the year ended December 31, 2006  The Company
 
Income from Continuing Operations
 
Income from continuing operations increased by $1,196 million, or 41%, to $4,117 million for the year ended December 31, 2007 from $2,921 million for the comparable 2006 period.
 
The following table provides the change from the prior year in income from continuing operations by segment:
 
 
The increase in the International segment's income from continuing operations was primarily attributable to the following factors:
 
 
 
 
The Institutional segment's income from continuing operations increased primarily due to lower net investment losses, an increase in interest margins, an increase in underwriting results, the impact of revisions to certain expenses in both periods, partially offset by higher expenses due to an increase in non-deferrable volume-related and corporate support expenses and an increase in DAC amortization resulting from the ongoing implementation of SOP in the current year.
05-1,
Accounting by Insurance Enterprises for Deferred Acquisition Costs in Connection with Modifications or Exchanges of Insurance Contracts
("SOP 05-1")
 
Corporate & Other's income from continuing operations increased primarily due to higher net investment income, lower net investment losses, lower corporate expenses, higher other revenues, integration costs incurred in the prior year, and lower legal costs, partially offset by a decrease in tax benefits, higher interest expense on debt, higher interest on tax contingencies, and higher interest credited to bankholder deposits.
 
The Individual segment's income from continuing operations increased primarily due to a decrease in net investment losses, higher fee income from separate account products, higher net investment income on blocks of business not driven by interest margins and an increase in interest margins, partially offset by higher DAC amortization, unfavorable underwriting results in life products, higher general expenses, the impact of revisions to certain liabilities in both years, the write-off of a receivable in the current year, an increase in the closed block-related policyholder dividend obligation, higher annuity benefits, an increase in policyholder dividends and an increase in interest credited to policyholder account balances.
 
The Auto & Home segment's income from continuing operations increased primarily due to an increase in premiums and other revenues, an increase in net investment income, an increase in net investment gains and a decrease in other expenses. These were partially offset by losses related to higher claim frequencies, higher earned exposures, higher losses due to severity, an increase in unallocated claims adjusting expenses and an increase from a reduction in favorable development of prior year losses, partially offset by a decrease in catastrophe losses, which included favorable development of prior year catastrophe reserves, all of which are related to policyholder benefits and claims. Also offsetting the increase in income from continuing operations was a decrease in average earned premium per policy and an increase in catastrophe reinsurance costs.
 
Revenues and Expenses
 
Premiums, Fees and Other Revenues
 
Premiums, fees and other revenues increased by $1,614 million, or 6%, to $29,761 million for the year ended December 31, 2007 from $28,147 million for the comparable 2006 period.
 
The following table provides the change from the prior year in premiums, fees and other revenues by segment:
 
 
The growth in the Institutional segment was primarily due to increases in the non-medical health & other and group life businesses. The non-medical health & other business increased primarily due to growth in the dental, disability, accidental death & dismemberment ("AD&D") and individual disability insurance ("IDI") businesses. Partially offsetting these increases is a decrease in the long-term care ("LTC") business, net of a decrease resulting from a shift to deposit liability-type contracts in the current year, partially offset by growth in the business. The group life business increased primarily due to business growth in term life and increases in corporate-owned life insurance and life insurance sold to postretirement benefit plans. These increases in the non-medical health & other and group life businesses were partially offset by a decrease in the retirement & savings business. The decrease in retirement & savings was primarily due to a decrease in structured settlement and pension closeout premiums, partially offset by an increase in other products.
 
The growth in the International segment was primarily due to the following factors:
 
 
These increases in premiums, fees and other revenues were partially offset by a decrease in the United Kingdom due to an unearned premium calculation refinement, partially offset by changes in foreign currency exchange rates.
 
The growth in the Individual segment was primarily due to higher fee income from variable life and annuity and investment-type products and growth in premiums from other life products, partially offset by a decrease in immediate annuity premiums and a decline in premiums associated with the Company's closed block business, in line with expectations.
 
The growth in the Auto & Home segment was primarily due to an increase in premiums related to increased exposures, an increase in various voluntary and involuntary programs, and a change in estimate on auto rate refunds due to a regulatory examination, as well as an increase in other revenues primarily due to slower than anticipated claim payments in 2006. These increases were partially offset by a reduction in average earned premium per policy, and an increase in catastrophe reinsurance costs.
 
The increase in Corporate & Other was primarily related to the resolution of an indemnification claim associated with the 2000 acquisition of General American Life Insurance Company ("GALIC"), partially offset by an adjustment of surrender values on corporate-owned life insurance policies.
 
Net Investment Income
 
Net investment income increased by $1,784 million, or 11%, to $18,086 million for the year ended December 31, 2007 from $16,302 million for the comparable 2006 period. Management attributes $1,197 million of this increase to growth in the average asset base and $587 million to an increase in yields. The increase in net investment income from growth in the average asset base was primarily within fixed maturity securities, mortgage loans, real estate joint ventures and other limited partnership interests. The increase in net investment income attributable to higher yields was primarily due to higher returns on fixed maturity securities, other limited partnership interests excluding hedge funds, equity securities and improved securities lending results, partially offset by lower returns on real estate joint ventures, cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, hedge funds and mortgage loans. Management anticipates that investment income and the related yields on other limited partnership interests may decline during 2008 due to increased volatility in the equity and credit markets during 2007.
 
Interest Margin
 
Interest margin, which represents the difference between interest earned and interest credited to policyholder account balances increased in the Institutional and Individual segments for the year ended December 31, 2007 as compared to the prior year. Interest earned approximates net investment income on investable assets attributed to the segment with minor adjustments related to the consolidation of certain separate accounts and other minor non-policyholder elements. Interest credited is the amount attributed to insurance products, recorded in policyholder benefits and claims, and the amount credited to policyholder account balances for investment-type products, recorded in interest credited to policyholder account balances. Interest credited on insurance products reflects the current year impact of the interest rate assumptions established at issuance or acquisition. Interest credited to policyholder account balances is subject to contractual terms, including some minimum guarantees. This tends to move gradually over time to reflect market interest rate movements and may reflect actions by management to respond to competitive pressures and, therefore, generally does not introduce volatility in expense.
 
Net Investment Gains (Losses)
 
Net investment losses decreased by $826 million to a loss of $561 million for the year ended December 31, 2007 from a loss of $1,387 million for the comparable 2006 period. The decrease in net investment losses was primarily due to a reduction of losses on fixed maturity securities resulting principally from the 2006 portfolio repositioning in a rising interest rate environment, increased gains from asset-based foreign currency transactions due to a decline in the U.S. dollar year over year against several major currencies and increased gains on equity securities, partially offset by increased losses from the mark-to-market on derivatives and reduced gains on real estate and real estate joint ventures.
 
Underwriting
 
Underwriting results are generally the difference between the portion of premium and fee income intended to cover mortality, morbidity or other insurance costs, less claims incurred, and the change in insurance-related liabilities. Underwriting results are significantly influenced by mortality, morbidity or other insurance-related experience trends, as well as the reinsurance activity related to certain blocks of business. Consequently, results can fluctuate from period to period. Underwriting results, excluding catastrophes, in the Auto & Home segment were less favorable for the year ended December 31, 2007, as the combined ratio, excluding catastrophes, increased to 86.3% from 82.8% for the year ended December 31, 2006. Underwriting results were favorable in the non-medical health & other, group life and retirement & savings businesses in the Institutional segment. Underwriting results were unfavorable in the life products in the Individual segment.
 
Other Expenses
 
Other expenses increased by $893 million, or 9%, to $10,458 million for the year ended December 31, 2007 from $9,565 million for the comparable 2006 period.
 
The following table provides the change from the prior year in other expenses by segment:
 
 
The Individual segment contributed to the year over year increase in other expenses primarily due to higher DAC amortization, higher expenses associated with business growth, information technology and other general expenses, the impact of revisions to certain liabilities, including pension and postretirement liabilities and policyholder liabilities in the prior year, and a write-off of a receivable in the current year.
 
The International segment contributed to the year over year increase in other expenses primarily due to the business growth commensurate with the increase in revenues discussed above. It was driven by the following factors:
 
 
 
 
Other expenses decreased in the home office primarily due to the elimination of certain intercompany expenses previously charged to the International segment, offset by higher spending on growth and infrastructure initiatives.
 
The Institutional segment contributed to the year over year increase primarily due to an increase in non-deferrable volume-related and corporate support expenses, higher DAC amortization associated with the ongoing implementation of in the current year, a charge related to the reimbursement of dental claims in the current year, the establishment of a contingent legal liability in the current year and the impact of certain revisions in both years. These increases were partially offset by a benefit related to a reduction of an allowance for doubtful accounts in the current year, the impact of a charge of non-deferrable LTC commissions expense, a charge associated with costs related to the sale of certain small market record keeping businesses and a regulatory settlement, all in the prior year.
SOP 05-1
 
Corporate & Other contributed to the year over year increase in other expenses primarily due to higher interest expense, higher interest on tax contingences and an increase in interest credited to bankholder deposits at MetLife Bank, National Association, a national bank ("MetLife Bank" or "MetLife Bank, N.A."), partially offset by lower corporate support expenses, lower costs from reductions of MetLife Foundation contributions, integration costs incurred in the prior year and lower legal costs.
 
These increases in other expenses were partially offset by a decrease in the Auto & Home segment primarily related to lower information technology and advertising costs, partially offset by minor changes in a variety of expense categories.
 
Net Income
 
Income tax expense for the year ended December 31, 2007 was $1,668 million, or 29% of income from continuing operations before provision for income tax, compared with $1,018 million, or 26% of such income, for the comparable 2006 period. The 2007 and 2006 effective tax rates differ from the corporate tax rate of 35% primarily due to the impact of non-taxable investment income and tax credits for investments in low income housing. In addition, the increase in the effective rate for FIN 48 liability additions is entirely offset by an increase in non-taxable investment income. The 2007 period includes a benefit for decrease in international deferred tax valuation allowances and the 2006 period included a prior year benefit for international taxes. Lastly, the 2006 period included benefit for a "provision-to-filed return" adjustment regarding non-taxable investment income.
 
Income from discontinued operations, net of income tax, decreased by $3,172 million, or 94%, to $200 million for the year ended December 31, 2007 from $3,372 million for the comparable 2006 period. The decrease in income from discontinued operations was primarily due to a gain of $3 billion, net of income tax, on the sale of the Peter Cooper Village and Stuyvesant Town properties in Manhattan, New York, that was recognized during the year ended December 31, 2006. In addition, there was lower net investment income and net investment gains (losses) of $144 million, net of income tax, from discontinued operations related to real estate properties sold or held-for-sale during the year ended December 31, 2007 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2006. Also contributing to the decrease was lower income from discontinued operations of $23 million, net of income tax, related to the sale of MetLife Australia's annuities and pension businesses to a third party in the third quarter of 2007 and lower income from discontinued operations of $18 million, net of income tax, related to the sale of SSRM resulting from a reduction in additional proceeds from the sale received during the year ended December 31, 2007 as compared to the year December 31, 2006. This decrease was partially offset by higher income of $7 million, net of income tax, from discontinued operations related to RGA, which was reclassified to discontinued operations in the third quarter of 2008 as a result of a tax-free split off. RGA's income was higher in 2007, primarily due to an increase in premiums, net of an increase in policyholder benefits and claims, due to additional in-force business from facultative and automatic treaties and renewal premiums on existing blocks of business combined with an increase in net investment income, net of interest credited to policyholder account balances, due to higher invested assets. These increases in RGA's income were offset by an increase in net investment losses resulting from a decline in the fair value of embedded derivatives associated with the reinsurance of annuity products on a funds withheld basis.
 
Year ended December 31, 2006 compared with the year ended December 31, 2005  The Company
 
Income from Continuing Operations
 
Income from continuing operations was $2,921 million and $2,958 million for the years ended December 31, 2006 and December 31, 2005, respectively. Excluding the acquisition of Travelers, which contributed $298 million during the first six months of 2006 to the year over year increase, income from continuing operations decreased by $335 million. Income from continuing operations for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005 included the impact of certain transactions or events, the timing, nature and amount of which are generally unpredictable. These transactions are described in each applicable segment's discussion. These items contributed a charge of $23 million, net of income tax, to the year ended December 31, 2006. These items contributed a benefit of $48 million, net of income tax, to the year ended December 31, 2005. Excluding the impact of these items and the acquisition of Travelers, income from continuing operations decreased by $264 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the prior 2005 period.
 
The following table provides the change in income from continuing operations by segment, excluding Travelers, and certain transactions as mentioned above:
 
 
The Institutional segment's income from continuing operations decreased primarily due to an increase in net investment losses, a decline in interest margins, an increase in operating expenses, which included a charge associated with costs related to the sale of certain small market recordkeeping businesses, a charge associated with non-deferrable LTC commissions expense and a charge associated with costs related to a previously announced regulatory settlement, partially offset by the impact of integration costs in the prior year and favorable underwriting results.
 
The Individual segment's income from continuing operations decreased as a result of an increase in net investment losses, a decline in interest margins, higher expenses and annuity benefits, as well as increases in interest credited to policyholder account balances and policyholder dividends. These decreases were partially offset by increased fee income related to the growth in separate account products, favorable underwriting results in life products, lower DAC amortization and a decrease in the closed block-related policyholder dividend obligation.
 
Income from continuing operations in Corporate & Other decreased primarily due to higher investment losses, higher interest expense on debt, corporate support expenses, interest credited to bankholder deposits and legal-related costs, partially offset by an increase in tax benefits, an increase in net investment income, lower integration costs and an increase in other revenues.
 
The decrease in income from continuing operations in the International segment was primarily attributable to the following factors:
 
 
 
Partially offsetting the decreases in income from continuing operations was an increase in the Auto & Home segment primarily due to a loss in the third quarter of 2005 related to Hurricane Katrina, favorable development of prior year loss reserves, improvement in non-catastrophe loss experience and a reduction in loss adjustment expenses. These increases were partially offset by higher catastrophe losses, excluding Hurricanes Katrina and Wilma, in the current year period, and decreases in net earned premiums, other revenues, and net investment income, as well as an increase in other expenses.
 
Revenues and Expenses
 
Premiums, Fees and Other Revenues
 
Premiums, fees and other revenues increased by $2,109 million, or 8%, to $28,147 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 from $26,038 million for the comparable 2005 period. Excluding the impact of the acquisition of Travelers, which contributed $945 million during the first six months of 2006 to the year over year increase, premiums, fees and other revenues increased by $1,164 million.
 
The following table provides the change in premiums, fees and other revenues by segment, excluding Travelers:
 
 
The growth in the International segment was primarily due to the following factors:
 
 
The growth in the Institutional segment was primarily due to growth in the dental, disability, AD&D products, as well as growth in the LTC and IDI businesses, all within the non-medical health & other business. Additionally, growth in the group life business was attributable to the impact of sales and favorable persistency largely in the term life business. These increases in the non-medical health & other and group life businesses were partially offset by a decrease in the retirement & savings business. The decline in retirement & savings was primarily due to a decline in premiums from structured settlements predominantly due to lower sales, partially offset by an increase in master terminal funding premiums.
 
The growth in the Individual segment was primarily due to higher fee income from universal life and investment-type products and an increase in premiums from other life products, partially offset by a decrease in
 
immediate annuity premiums and a decline in premiums associated with the Company's closed block business as this business continues to run-off.
 
Net Investment Income
 
Net investment income increased by $2,185 million, or 15%, to $16,302 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 from $14,117 million for the comparable 2005 period. Excluding the impact of the acquisition of Travelers, which contributed $1,425 million during the first six months of 2006 to the year over year increase, net investment income increased by $760 million of which management attributes $477 million to growth in the average asset base and $283 million to an increase in yields. This increase was primarily due to an overall increase in the asset base, an increase in fixed maturity security yields, improved results on real estate and real estate joint ventures, mortgage loans, and other limited partnership interests, as well as higher short-term interest rates on cash equivalents and short-term investments. These increases were partially offset by a decline in investment income from securities lending results, and bond and commercial mortgage prepayment fees.
 
Interest Margin
 
Interest margin, which represents the difference between interest earned and interest credited to policyholder account balances, decreased in the Institutional and Individual segments for the year ended December 31, 2006 as compared to the prior year. Interest earned approximates net investment income on investable assets attributed to the segment with minor adjustments related to the consolidation of certain separate accounts and other minor non-policyholder elements. Interest credited is the amount attributed to insurance products, recorded in policyholder benefits and claims, and the amount credited to policyholder account balances for investment-type products, recorded in interest credited to policyholder account balances. Interest credited on insurance products reflects the current period impact of the interest rate assumptions established at issuance or acquisition. Interest credited to policyholder account balances is subject to contractual terms, including some minimum guarantees. This tends to move gradually over time to reflect market interest rate movements and may reflect actions by management to respond to competitive pressures and, therefore, generally does not introduce volatility in expense.
 
Net Investment Gains (Losses)
 
Net investment losses increased by $1,277 million to a loss of $1,387 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 from a loss of $110 million for the comparable 2005 period. Excluding the impact of the acquisition of Travelers, which contributed a loss of $294 million during the first six months of 2006 to the year over year increase, net investment losses increased by $983 million. The increase in net investment losses was due to a combination of losses from the mark-to-market on derivatives and foreign currency transaction losses during 2006, largely driven by increases in U.S. interest rates and the weakening of the dollar against the major currencies the Company hedges, notably the euro and pound sterling.
 
Underwriting
 
Underwriting results are generally the difference between the portion of premium and fee income intended to cover mortality, morbidity or other insurance costs, less claims incurred, and the change in insurance-related liabilities. Underwriting results are significantly influenced by mortality, morbidity or other insurance-related experience trends and the reinsurance activity related to certain blocks of business and, as a result, can fluctuate from period to period. Underwriting results were favorable within the life products in the Individual segment and in the group life and non-medical health & other products in the Institutional segment. Retirement & saving's underwriting results were mixed across several products in the Institutional segment. Underwriting results, excluding catastrophes, in the Auto & Home segment were favorable for the year ended December 31, 2006, as the combined ratio, excluding catastrophes, decreased to 82.8% from 86.7% for the year ended December 31, 2005. Underwriting results in the International segment increased commensurate with the growth in the business for most countries with the exception of Brazil, which experienced unfavorable claim experience, and Argentina, which experienced improved claim experience.
 
Other Expenses
 
Other expenses increased by $1,284 million, or 16%, to $9,565 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 from $8,281 million for the comparable 2005 period. Excluding the impact of the acquisition of Travelers, which contributed $605 million during the first six months of 2006 to the year over year increase, other expenses increased by $679 million. The year ended December 31, 2006 includes a $35 million contribution to the MetLife Foundation. The year ended December 31, 2005 included a $28 million benefit associated with the reduction of a previously established real estate transfer tax liability related to MLIC's demutualization in 2000. Excluding these items and the acquisition of Travelers, other expenses increased by $616 million from the comparable 2005 period.
 
The following table provides the change in other expenses by segment, excluding Travelers, and certain transactions as mentioned above:
 
 
The International segment contributed to the year over year increase in other expenses primarily due to business growth commensurate with the increase in revenues discussed above and changes in foreign currency exchange rates. This was driven by the following factors:
 
 
Corporate & Other contributed to the year over year variance in other expenses primarily due to higher interest expense, corporate support expenses, interest credited to bankholder deposits at MetLife Bank and legal-related costs, partially offset by lower integration costs.
 
The Institutional segment contributed to the year over year increase primarily due to an increase in non-deferrable volume-related expenses, a charge associated with costs related to the sale of certain small market recordkeeping businesses, a charge associated with non-deferrable LTC commissions expense and a charge associated with costs related to a previously announced regulatory settlement, all within the current year, partially
 
offset by the reduction in Travelers-related integration costs, principally incentive accruals and an adjustment of DAC for certain LTC products.
 
The Auto & Home segment contributed to the year over year increase primarily due to expenditures related to information technology, advertising and compensation costs.
 
Partially offsetting the increases in other expenses was a decrease in the Individual segment. This decrease was primarily due to lower DAC amortization, partially offset by higher general spending in the current year, despite higher corporate incentives. In addition, the impact of revisions to certain expenses, premium tax, policyholder liabilities and pension and postretirement liabilities, in both periods, increased other expenses in the current year period.
 
Net Income
 
Income tax expense for the year ended December 31, 2006 was $1,018 million, or 26% of income from continuing operations before provision for income tax, compared with $1,161 million, or 28%, of such income, for the comparable 2005 period. Excluding the impact of the acquisition of Travelers, which contributed $118 million during the first six months of 2006, income tax expense was $900 million, or 23%, of income from continuing operations before provision for income tax, compared with $1,161 million, or 28%, of such income, for the comparable 2005 period. The 2006 and 2005 effective tax rates differ from the corporate tax rate of 35% primarily due to the impact of non-taxable investment income and tax credits for investments in low income housing. The 2006 effective tax rate also includes an adjustment of a benefit of $33 million consisting primarily of a revision in the estimate of income tax for 2005, and the 2005 effective tax rate also includes a tax benefit of $27 million related to the repatriation of foreign earnings pursuant to Internal Revenue Code Section 965 for which a U.S. deferred tax provision had previously been recorded and an adjustment of a benefit of $33 million consisting primarily of a revision in the estimate of income tax for 2004.
 
Income from discontinued operations consisted of net investment income and net investment gains related to real estate properties that the Company had classified as available-for-sale or had sold and, (i) for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, income from discontinued operations related to RGA, which was reclassified to discontinued operations in the third quarter of 2008 as a result of a tax-free split off, (ii) for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, the operations and gain upon disposal from the sale of SSRM on January 31, 2005, and (iii) for the year ended December 31, 2005, the operations of MetLife Indonesia which were sold on September 29, 2005. Income from discontinued operations, net of income tax, increased by $1,616 million, or 92%, to $3,372 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 from $1,756 million for the comparable 2005 period. This increase is primarily due to a gain of $3 billion, net of income tax, on the sale of the Peter Cooper Village and Stuyvesant Town properties in Manhattan, New York, as well as a gain of $32 million, net of income tax, related to the sale of SSRM during the year ended December 31, 2006. There was an increase in RGA's income in 2006 of $36 million, net of income tax, primarily due to an increase in premiums, net of an increase in policyholder benefits and claims, due to additional in-force business from facultative and automatic treaties and renewal premiums on existing blocks of business. The increase in policyholder benefits and claims was partially offset by unfavorable mortality in the prior year period. The increase in income was also due to an increase in net investment income, net of interest credited to policyholder account balances due to higher invested assets resulting from the issuance of notes and a collateral financing facility. The issuance of the notes and a collateral financing facility resulted in higher interest expense within other expenses which was also higher due to increased expenses associated with DAC, including reinsurance allowance paid. Increased net investment losses also partially offset the increase in income from RGA. These increases were partially offset by gains during the year ended December 31, 2005 including $1,193 million, net of income tax, on the sales of the One Madison Avenue and 200 Park Avenue properties in Manhattan, New York, as well as gains on the sales of SSRM and MetLife Indonesia of $177 million and $10 million, respectively, both net of income tax. In addition, there was lower net investment income and net investment gains from discontinued operations related to real estate properties sold or held-for-sale during the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the year ended December 31, 2005.
 
Dividends on the Holding Company's Preferred Shares issued in connection with financing the acquisition of Travelers increased by $71 million, to $134 million for the year ended December 31, 2006, from $63 million for the comparable 2005 period, as the preferred stock was issued in June 2005.
 
Discussion of Results  Corporate & Other
 
The following table presents consolidated financial information for Corporate & Other for the years indicated:
 
 
Year ended December 31, 2007 compared with the year ended December 31, 2006  Corporate & Other
 
Income from Continuing Operations
 
Income from continuing operations increased by $287 million, to a gain of $254 million for the year ended December 31, 2007 from a loss of $33 million for the comparable 2006 period. Included in this increase were lower net investment losses of $133 million, net of income tax, resulting in a net investment gain. Excluding the impact of net investment gains (losses), income from continuing operations increased by $154 million.
 
The increase in income from continuing operations was primarily attributable to higher net investment income, lower corporate expenses, higher other revenues, integration costs incurred in the prior year, and lower legal cost of $275 million, $56 million, $20 million, $17 million, and $7 million, respectively, each of which were net of income tax. This was partially offset by higher interest expense on debt, higher interest on tax contingencies, and higher interest credited to bankholder deposits of $86 million, $23 million, and $3 million respectively, each of which were net of income tax. Tax benefits decreased by $103 million over the comparable 2006 period due to the Company's implementation of FIN 48, the difference of finalizing the Company's 2006 tax return in 2007 when compared to finalizing the Company's 2005 tax return in 2006 and the difference between the actual and the estimated tax rate allocated to the various segments.
 
Revenues
 
Total revenues, excluding net investment gains (losses), increased by $451 million, or 41%, to $1,538 million for the year ended December 31, 2007 from $1,087 million for the comparable 2006 period. This increase was primarily due to increased net investment income of $423 million, mainly on fixed maturity securities, driven by a higher asset base related to the reinvestment of proceeds from the sale of the Peter Cooper Village and Stuyvesant Town properties during the fourth quarter of 2006 and the investment of proceeds from issuances of junior subordinated debt in December 2006 and December 2007 and collateral financing arrangements to support statutory reserves in May 2007 and December 2007. Net investment income also increased on other limited partnerships, real estate and real estate joint ventures, and mortgage loans. Other revenues increased by $30 million primarily related to the resolution of an indemnification claim associated with the 2000 acquisition of GALIC, offset by an adjustment of surrender values on corporate-owned life insurance policies. Also included as a component of total revenues was the elimination of intersegment amounts which was offset within total expenses.
 
Expenses
 
Total expenses increased by $59 million, or 4%, to $1,457 million for the year ended December 31, 2007 from $1,398 million for the comparable 2006 period. Interest expense was higher by $133 million due to the issuances of junior subordinated debt in December 2006 and December 2007 and collateral financing arrangements in May 2007 and December 2007, respectively, and from settlement fees on the prepayment of shares subject to mandatory redemption in October 2007, partially offset by the maturity of senior notes in December 2006 and the reduction of commercial paper outstanding. Interest on tax contingencies was higher by $35 million as a result of an increase in published Internal Revenue Service interest rates and a change in the method of estimating interest expense on tax contingencies associated with the Company's implementation of FIN 48. As a result of higher interest rates, interest credited on bank deposits increased by $5 million at MetLife Bank. Corporate expenses are lower by $86 million primarily due to lower corporate support expenses of $63 million, which included advertising, costs for new products and information technology costs, and lower costs from reductions of MetLife Foundation contributions of $23 million. Integration costs incurred in 2006 period were $25 million. Legal costs were lower by $11 million primarily due to a reduction in the current year of $35 million of legal liabilities resulting from the settlement of certain cases, lower other legal costs of $3 million partially offset by higher amortization and valuation of an asbestos insurance recoverable of $27 million. Also included as a component of total expenses were the elimination of intersegment amounts which were offset within total revenues.
start-up
 
Year ended December 31, 2006 compared with the year ended December 31, 2005  Corporate & Other
 
Income (Loss) from Continuing Operations
 
Income (loss) from continuing operations increased by $3 million, or 8%, to ($33) million for the year ended December 31, 2006 from ($36) million for the comparable 2005 period. The acquisition of Travelers, excluding Travelers financing and integration costs incurred by the Company, contributed $111 million during the first six months of 2006 to income (loss) from continuing operations, which included $3 million, net of income tax, of net investment losses. Excluding the impact of Travelers, income (loss) from continuing operations decreased by $108 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 from the comparable 2005 period. Included in this decrease were higher investment losses of $65 million, net of income tax. Excluding the impact of Travelers and the increase of net investment losses, income (loss) from continuing operations decreased by $43 million.
 
The increase in income (loss) from continuing operations was primarily attributable to higher net investment income, lower integration costs and higher other revenues of $93 million, $62 million, and $6 million, respectively, all of which were net of income tax. This was partially offset by higher interest expense on debt (principally associated with the issuance of debt to finance the Travelers acquisition), corporate support expenses, interest credited to bankholder deposits, policyholder benefits and claims and legal-related liabilities of $125 million, $111 million, $55 million, $30 million and $5 million, respectively, all of which were net of income tax. Tax benefits increased by $117 million over the comparable 2005 period due to the difference of finalizing the Company's 2005 tax return in 2006 when compared to finalizing the Company's 2004 tax return in 2005 and the difference between the actual and the estimated tax rate allocated to the various segments.
 
Revenues
 
Total revenues, excluding net investment gains (losses), increased by $355 million, or 48%, to $1,087 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 from $732 million for the comparable 2005 period. The acquisition of Travelers contributed $200 million during the first six months of 2006 to the period over period increase. Excluding the impact of Travelers, revenues increased by $155 million, or 21%, from the comparable 2005 period. This increase was primarily attributable to increased net investment income of $145 million primarily from increases in income on fixed maturity securities due to improved yields from lengthening of the duration and a higher asset base, and the impact of higher short-term interest rates on cash equivalents and short-term investments. The increase also resulted from a higher asset base invested in mortgage loans on real estate, real estate joint ventures, and other limited partnership interests and was partially offset by a decline in securities lending results and leveraged leases. The remainder of the increase was primarily attributable to increased other revenues of $9 million, which primarily consisted of increased surrender values on corporate owned life insurance policies. Also included as a component of total revenues were the intersegment eliminations which were offset within total expenses.
 
Expenses
 
Total expenses increased by $455 million, or 48%, to $1,398 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 from $943 million for the comparable 2005 period. The acquisition of Travelers, excluding Travelers financing and integration costs, contributed $59 million during the first six months of 2006 to the period over period increase. Excluding the impact of Travelers, total expenses increased by $396 million, or 42%, for the year ended December 31, 2006 from the comparable 2005 period.
 
This increase was primarily attributable to higher interest expense of $192 million. The principal reason was a result of the issuance of senior notes in 2005, which included $119 million of expenses from the financing of the acquisition of Travelers. Additionally, as a result of the issuance of commercial paper, short-term interest expense increased by $67 million. Corporate support expenses were higher by $170 million primarily due to higher corporate support expenses of $107 million, which included advertising, costs for new products and information technology costs, a $35 million MetLife foundation contribution in the 2006 period and a $28 million benefit, in the 2005 period, associated with the reduction of a previously established real estate transfer tax liability related to MLIC's demutualization in 2000. As a result of growth in the business and higher interest rates, interest credited to bankholder deposits increased by $85 million at MetLife Bank. Policyholder benefits and claims increased $48 million from a 2005 period benefit associated with a reduction of a previously established liability for settlement death benefits related to the Company's sales practices class action settlement recorded in 1999. Legal-related costs were higher by $8 million, predominantly from the reduction of previously established liabilities related to legal disputes during the 2005 period. Integration costs were lower by $95 million. Also included as a component of total expenses were the elimination of intersegment amounts which were offset within total revenues.
start-up

 
EXHIBIT 99.3
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of
MetLife, Inc.:
 
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of MetLife, Inc. and subsidiaries (the "Company") as of December 31, 2007 and 2006, and the related consolidated statements of income, stockholders' equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2007. Our audits also included the financial statement schedules listed in the Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules. These consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedules are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedules based on our audits.
 
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
 
In our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of MetLife, Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2007 and 2006, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2007, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Also, in our opinion, such financial statement schedules, when considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, present fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein.
 
As discussed in Note 1, the Company changed its method of accounting for deferred acquisition costs and for income taxes as required by accounting guidance adopted on January 1, 2007, and changed its method of accounting for defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans as required by accounting guidance adopted on December 31, 2006.
 
We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007, based on the criteria established in issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission, and our report, dated February 28, 2008, expressed an unqualified opinion on the Company's internal control over financial reporting.
Internal Control  Integrated Framework
 
/s/  DELOITTE & TOUCHE
LLP
 
New York, New York February 28, 2008 (except with respect to our opinion on the consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedules insofar as it relates to the effects of the split-off of Reinsurance Group of America, Incorporated, as described in Note 2 as to which the date is November 13, 2008).
Table of Contents
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
1.  Business, Basis of Presentation, and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
 
Business
 
"MetLife" or the "Company" refers to MetLife, Inc., a Delaware corporation incorporated in 1999 (the "Holding Company"), and its subsidiaries, including Metropolitan Life Insurance Company ("MLIC"). MetLife is a leading provider of insurance and other financial services with operations throughout the United States and the regions of Latin America, Europe, and Asia Pacific. Through its domestic and international subsidiaries and affiliates, MetLife offers life insurance, annuities, automobile and homeowners insurance, retail banking and other financial services to individuals, as well as group insurance, reinsurance and retirement & savings products and services to corporations and other institutions.
 
Basis of Presentation
 
The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the accounts of (i) the Holding Company and its subsidiaries; (ii) partnerships and joint ventures in which the Company has control; and (iii) variable interest entities ("VIEs") for which the Company is deemed to be the primary beneficiary. Closed block assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses are combined on a basis with the assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses outside the closed block based on the nature of the particular item. See Note 9. Intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated.
line-by-line
 
The Company uses the equity method of accounting for investments in equity securities in which it has more than a 20% interest and for real estate joint ventures and other limited partnership interests in which it has more than a minor equity interest or more than a minor influence over the joint venture's or partnership's operations, but does not have a controlling interest and is not the primary beneficiary. The Company uses the cost method of accounting for investments in real estate joint ventures and other limited partnership interests in which it has a minor equity investment and virtually no influence over the joint venture's or partnership's operations.
 
Minority interest related to consolidated entities included in other liabilities was $272 million and $101 million at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. There was also minority interest of $1.5 billion and $1.3 billion included in liabilities of subsidiaries held-for-sale at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively.
 
Certain amounts in the prior year periods' consolidated financial statements have been reclassified to conform with the 2007 presentation. Such reclassifications include $850 million relating to long-term debt issued which has been reclassified to collateral financing arrangements issued in the consolidated statement of cash flows for the year ended December 31, 2006. The collateral financing arrangement is included in liabilities of subsidiaries held-for-sale on the consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2006. See Note 23 for reclassifications related to discontinued operations.
 
On July 1, 2005, the Holding Company completed the acquisition of The Travelers Insurance Company, excluding certain assets, most significantly, Primerica, from Citigroup Inc. ("Citigroup"), and substantially all of Citigroup's international insurance businesses (collectively, "Travelers"), which is described in Note 2. The acquisition was accounted for using the purchase method of accounting. Travelers' assets, liabilities and results of operations were included in the Company's results beginning July 1, 2005. The accounting policies of Travelers were conformed to those of MetLife upon acquisition.
 
Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Critical Accounting Estimates
 
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP") requires management to adopt accounting policies and make estimates and assumptions that affect amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements. The most critical estimates include those used in determining:
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A description of such critical estimates is incorporated within the discussion of the related accounting policies which follow. The application of purchase accounting requires the use of estimation techniques in determining the fair values of assets acquired and liabilities assumed  the most significant of which relate to the aforementioned critical estimates. In applying these policies, management makes subjective and complex judgments that frequently require estimates about matters that are inherently uncertain. Many of these policies, estimates and related judgments are common in the insurance and financial services industries; others are specific to the Company's businesses and operations. Actual results could differ from these estimates.
 
Investments
 
The Company's principal investments are in fixed maturity and equity securities, mortgage and consumer loans, policy loans, real estate, real estate joint ventures and other limited partnerships, short-term investments, and other invested assets. The accounting policies related to each are as follows:
 
  The Company's fixed maturity and equity securities are classified as available-for-sale, except for trading securities, and are reported at their estimated fair value. Unrealized investment gains and losses on these securities are recorded as a separate component of other comprehensive income or loss, net of policyholder related amounts and deferred income taxes. All security transactions are recorded on a trade date basis. Investment gains and losses on sales of securities are determined on a specific identification basis.
Fixed Maturity and Equity Securities.
 
Interest income on fixed maturity securities is recorded when earned using an effective yield method giving effect to amortization of premiums and accretion of discounts. Dividends on equity securities are recorded when declared. These dividends and interest income are recorded as part of net investment income.
 
Included within fixed maturity securities are loan-backed securities including mortgage-backed and securities. Amortization of the premium or discount from the purchase of these securities considers the estimated timing and amount of prepayments of the underlying loans. Actual prepayment experience is periodically reviewed and effective yields are recalculated when differences arise between the prepayments originally anticipated and the actual prepayments received and currently anticipated. Prepayment assumptions for single class and multi-class mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities are obtained from broker-dealer survey values or internal estimates. For credit-sensitive mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities and certain prepayment-sensitive securities, the effective yield is recalculated on a prospective basis. For all other and asset-backed securities, the effective yield is recalculated on a retrospective basis.
asset-backed
mortgage-backed
 
The cost of fixed maturity and equity securities is adjusted for impairments in value deemed to be other-than-temporary in the period in which the determination is made. These impairments are included within net investment
Table of Contents
 
 
 
gains (losses) and the cost basis of the fixed maturity and equity securities is reduced accordingly. The Company does not change the revised cost basis for subsequent recoveries in value.
 
The assessment of whether impairments have occurred is based on management's evaluation of the underlying reasons for the decline in fair value. The Company's review of its fixed maturity and equity securities for impairments includes an analysis of the total gross unrealized losses by three categories of securities: (i) securities where the estimated fair value had declined and remained below cost or amortized cost by less than 20%; (ii) securities where the estimated fair value had declined and remained below cost or amortized cost by 20% or more for less than six months; and (iii) securities where the estimated fair value had declined and remained below cost or amortized cost by 20% or more for six months or greater.
case-by-case
 
Additionally, management considers a wide range of factors about the security issuer and uses its best judgment in evaluating the cause of the decline in the estimated fair value of the security and in assessing the prospects for near-term recovery. Inherent in management's evaluation of the security are assumptions and estimates about the operations of the issuer and its future earnings potential. Considerations used by the Company in the impairment evaluation process include, but are not limited to: (i) the length of time and the extent to which the market value has been below cost or amortized cost; (ii) the potential for impairments of securities when the issuer is experiencing significant financial difficulties; (iii) the potential for impairments in an entire industry sector or sub-sector; (iv) the potential for impairments in certain economically depressed geographic locations; (v) the potential for impairments of securities where the issuer, series of issuers or industry has suffered a catastrophic type of loss or has exhausted natural resources; (vi) the Company's ability and intent to hold the security for a period of time sufficient to allow for the recovery of its value to an amount equal to or greater than cost or amortized cost (See also Note 3); (vii) unfavorable changes in forecasted cash flows on mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities; and (viii) other subjective factors, including concentrations and information obtained from regulators and rating agencies.
 
The Company purchases and receives beneficial interests in special purpose entities ("SPEs"), which enhance the Company's total return on its investment portfolio principally by providing equity-based returns on debt securities. These investments are generally made through structured notes and similar instruments (collectively, "Structured Investment Transactions"). The Company has not guaranteed the performance, liquidity or obligations of the SPEs and its exposure to loss is limited to its carrying value of the beneficial interests in the SPEs. The Company does not consolidate such SPEs as it has determined it is not the primary beneficiary. These Structured Investment Transactions are included in fixed maturity securities and their income is generally recognized using the retrospective interest method. Impairments of these investments are included in net investment gains (losses).
 
  The Company's trading securities portfolio, principally consisting of fixed maturity and equity securities, supports investment strategies that involve the active and frequent purchase and sale of securities and the execution of short sale agreements, and supports asset and liability matching strategies for certain insurance products. Trading securities and short sale agreement liabilities are recorded at fair value with subsequent changes in fair value recognized in net investment income. Related dividends and investment income are also included in net investment income.
Trading Securities.
 
  Securities loaned transactions are treated as financing arrangements and are recorded at the amount of cash received. The Company obtains collateral in an amount equal to 102% of the fair value of the securities loaned. The Company monitors the market value of the securities loaned on a daily basis with additional collateral obtained as necessary. Substantially all of the Company's securities loaned transactions are with large brokerage firms. Income and expenses associated with securities loaned transactions are reported as investment income and investment expense, respectively, within net investment income.
Securities Lending.
 
  Mortgage and consumer loans are stated at unpaid principal balance, adjusted for any unamortized premium or discount, deferred fees or expenses, net of valuation allowances. Interest income is accrued on the principal amount of the loan based on the loan's contractual interest rate. Amortization of
Mortgage and Consumer Loans.
Table of Contents
 
 
 
premiums and discounts is recorded using the effective yield method. Interest income, amortization of premiums and discounts, and prepayment fees are reported in net investment income. Loans are considered to be impaired when it is probable that, based upon current information and events, the Company will be unable to collect all amounts due under the contractual terms of the loan agreement. Valuation allowances are established for the excess carrying value of the loan over the present value of expected future cash flows discounted at the loan's original effective interest rate, the value of the loan's collateral if the loan is in the process of foreclosure or otherwise collateral dependent, or the loan's market value if the loan is being sold. The Company also establishes allowances for loan losses when a loss contingency exists for pools of loans with similar characteristics, such as mortgage loans based on similar property types or loan to value risk factors. A loss contingency exists when the likelihood that a future event will occur is probable based on past events. Interest income earned on impaired loans is accrued on the principal amount of the loan based on the loan's contractual interest rate. However, interest ceases to be accrued for loans on which interest is generally more than 60 days past due where the collection of interest is not considered probable. Cash receipts on such impaired loans are recorded as a reduction of the recorded investment. Gains and losses from the sale of loans and changes in valuation allowances are reported in net investment gains (losses).
and/or
 
  Policy loans are stated at unpaid principal balances. Interest income on such loans is recorded as earned using the contractually agreed upon interest rate. Generally, interest is capitalized on the policy's anniversary date.
Policy Loans.
 
  Real estate held-for-investment, including related improvements, is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation. Depreciation is provided on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the asset (typically 20 to 55 years). Rental income is recognized on a straight-line basis over the term of the respective leases. The Company classifies a property as held-for-sale if it commits to a plan to sell a property within one year and actively markets the property in its current condition for a price that is reasonable in comparison to its fair value. The Company classifies the results of operations and the gain or loss on sale of a property that either has been disposed of or classified as held-for-sale as discontinued operations, if the ongoing operations of the property will be eliminated from the ongoing operations of the Company and if the Company will not have any significant continuing involvement in the operations of the property after the sale. Real estate held-for-sale is stated at the lower of depreciated cost or fair value less expected disposition costs. Real estate is not depreciated while it is classified as held-for-sale. The Company periodically reviews its properties held-for-investment for impairment and tests properties for recoverability whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying amount of the asset may not be recoverable and the carrying value of the property exceeds its fair value. Properties whose carrying values are greater than their undiscounted cash flows are written down to their fair value, with the impairment loss included in net investment gains (losses). Impairment losses are based upon the estimated fair value of real estate, which is generally computed using the present value of expected future cash flows from the real estate discounted at a rate commensurate with the underlying risks. Real estate acquired upon foreclosure of commercial and agricultural mortgage loans is recorded at the lower of estimated fair value or the carrying value of the mortgage loan at the date of foreclosure.
Real Estate.
 
  The Company uses the equity method of accounting for investments in real estate joint ventures and other limited partnership interests in which it has more than a minor equity interest or more than a minor influence over the joint ventures or partnership's operations, but does not have a controlling interest and is not the primary beneficiary. The Company uses the cost method of accounting for investments in real estate joint ventures and other limited partnership interests in which it has a minor equity investment and virtually no influence over the joint ventures or the partnership's operations. In addition to the investees performing regular evaluations for the impairment of underlying investments, the Company routinely evaluates its investments in real estate joint ventures and other limited partnerships for impairments. For its cost method investments, the Company follows an impairment analysis which is similar to the process followed for its fixed maturity and equity securities as described previously. For equity method investees, the Company considers financial and other information provided by the investee, other known information and inherent risks in the
Real Estate Joint Ventures and Other Limited Partnership Interests.
Table of Contents
 
 
 
underlying investments, as well as future capital commitments, in determining whether an impairment has occurred. When an other-than-temporary impairment is deemed to have occurred, the Company records a realized capital loss within net investment gains (losses) to record the investment at its fair value.
 
  Short-term investments include investments with remaining maturities of one year or less, but greater than three months, at the time of acquisition and are stated at amortized cost, which approximates fair value.
Short-term Investments.
 
  Other invested assets consist principally of leveraged leases. Leveraged leases are recorded net of non-recourse debt. The Company participates in lease transactions which are diversified by industry, asset type and geographic area. The Company recognizes income on the leveraged leases by applying the leveraged lease's estimated rate of return to the net investment in the lease. The Company regularly reviews residual values and impairs them to expected values as needed.
Other Invested Assets.
 
Other invested assets also include stand-alone derivatives with positive fair values and the fair value of embedded derivatives related to modified coinsurance contracts.
 
  Funds withheld represent amounts contractually withheld by ceding companies in accordance with reinsurance agreements. For agreements written on a modified coinsurance basis and certain agreements written on a coinsurance basis, assets supporting the reinsured policies, and equal to the net statutory reserves, are withheld and continue to be legally owned by the ceding companies. The Company records a funds withheld receivable rather than the underlying investments. The Company recognizes interest on funds withheld at rates defined by the treaty terms which may be contractually specified or directly related to the investment portfolio and records it in net investment income. The Company's funds withheld balances are substantially held by Reinsurance Group of America, Incorporated ("RGA"), a subsidiary, and are included in assets of subsidiaries held-for-sale. See Note 2.
Funds Withheld at Interest.
 
  The Company's investments are exposed to three primary sources of risk: credit, interest rate and market valuation. The financial statement risks, stemming from such investment risks, are those associated with the recognition of impairments, the recognition of income on certain investments, and the determination of fair values.
Estimates and Uncertainties.
 
The determination of the amount of allowances and impairments, as applicable, are described previously by investment type. The determination of such allowances and impairments is highly subjective and is based upon the Company's periodic evaluation and assessment of known and inherent risks associated with the respective asset class. Such evaluations and assessments are revised as conditions change and new information becomes available. Management updates its evaluations regularly and reflects changes in allowances and impairments in operations as such evaluations are revised.
 
The recognition of income on certain investments (e.g. loan-backed securities, including mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities, certain investment transactions, trading securities, etc.) is dependent upon market conditions, which could result in prepayments and changes in amounts to be earned.
 
The fair values of publicly held fixed maturity securities and publicly held equity securities are based on quoted market prices or estimates from independent pricing services. However, in cases where quoted market prices are not available, such as for private fixed maturity securities, fair values are estimated using present value or valuation techniques. The determination of fair values is based on: (i) valuation methodologies; (ii) securities the Company deems to be comparable; and (iii) assumptions deemed appropriate given the circumstances. The fair value estimates are made at a specific point in time, based on available market information and judgments about financial instruments, including estimates of the timing and amounts of expected future cash flows and the credit standing of the issuer or counterparty. Factors considered in estimating fair value include: coupon rate, maturity, estimated duration, call provisions, sinking fund requirements, credit rating, industry sector of the issuer, and
Table of Contents
 
 
 
quoted market prices of comparable securities. The use of different methodologies and assumptions may have a material effect on the estimated fair value amounts.
 
Additionally, when the Company enters into certain structured investment transactions, real estate joint ventures and other limited partnerships for which the Company may be deemed to be the primary beneficiary under Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") Interpretation ("FIN") No. 46(r), , it may be required to consolidate such investments. The accounting rules for the determination of the primary beneficiary are complex and require evaluation of the contractual rights and obligations associated with each party involved in the entity, an estimate of the entity's expected losses and expected residual returns and the allocation of such estimates to each party.
Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities  An Interpretation of ARB No. 51
 
The use of different methodologies and assumptions as to the determination of the fair value of investments, the timing and amount of impairments, the recognition of income, or consolidation of investments may have a material effect on the amounts presented within the consolidated financial statements.
 
Derivative Financial Instruments
 
Derivatives are financial instruments whose values are derived from interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, or other financial indices. Derivatives may be exchange-traded or contracted in the over-the-counter market. The Company uses a variety of derivatives, including swaps, forwards, futures and option contracts, to manage the risk associated with variability in cash flows or changes in fair values related to the Company's financial instruments. The Company also uses derivative instruments to hedge its currency exposure associated with net investments in certain foreign operations. To a lesser extent, the Company uses credit derivatives, such as credit default swaps, to synthetically replicate investment risks and returns which are not readily available in the cash market. The Company also purchases certain securities, issues certain insurance policies and investment contracts and engages in certain reinsurance contracts that have embedded derivatives.
 
Freestanding derivatives are carried on the Company's consolidated balance sheet either as assets within other invested assets or as liabilities within other liabilities at fair value as determined by quoted market prices or through the use of pricing models. The determination of fair value, when quoted market values are not available, is based on valuation methodologies and assumptions deemed appropriate under the circumstances. Derivative valuations can be affected by changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, financial indices, credit spreads, market volatility, and liquidity. Values can also be affected by changes in estimates and assumptions used in pricing models. Such assumptions include estimates of volatility, interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, other financial indices and credit ratings. Essential to the analysis of the fair value is risk of counterparty default. The use of different assumptions may have a material effect on the estimated derivative fair value amounts, as well as the amount of reported net income.
 
If a derivative is not designated as an accounting hedge or its use in managing risk does not qualify for hedge accounting, changes in the fair value of the derivative are generally reported in net investment gains (losses) except for those (i) in policyholder benefits and claims for economic hedges of liabilities embedded in certain variable annuity products offered by the Company, and (ii) in net investment income for economic hedges of equity method investments in joint ventures, or for all derivatives held in relation to the trading portfolios. The fluctuations in fair value of derivatives which have not been designated for hedge accounting can result in significant volatility in net income.
 
To qualify for hedge accounting, at the inception of the hedging relationship, the Company formally documents its risk management objective and strategy for undertaking the hedging transaction, as well as its designation of the hedge as either (i) a hedge of the fair value of a recognized asset or liability or an unrecognized firm commitment ("fair value hedge"); (ii) a hedge of a forecasted transaction or of the variability of cash flows to be received or paid related to a recognized asset or liability ("cash flow hedge"); or (iii) a hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation. In this documentation, the Company sets forth how the hedging instrument is expected to
Table of Contents
 
 
 
hedge the designated risks related to the hedged item and sets forth the method that will be used to retrospectively and prospectively assess the hedging instrument's effectiveness and the method which will be used to measure ineffectiveness. A derivative designated as a hedging instrument must be assessed as being highly effective in offsetting the designated risk of the hedged item. Hedge effectiveness is formally assessed at inception and periodically throughout the life of the designated hedging relationship. Assessments of hedge effectiveness and measurements of ineffectiveness are also subject to interpretation and estimation and different interpretations or estimates may have a material effect on the amount reported in net income.
 
The accounting for derivatives is complex and interpretations of the primary accounting standards continue to evolve in practice. Judgment is applied in determining the availability and application of hedge accounting designations and the appropriate accounting treatment under these accounting standards. If it was determined that hedge accounting designations were not appropriately applied, reported net income could be materially affected. Differences in judgment as to the availability and application of hedge accounting designations and the appropriate accounting treatment may result in a differing impact on the consolidated financial statements of the Company from that previously reported.
 
Under a fair value hedge, changes in the fair value of the hedging derivative, including amounts measured as ineffectiveness, and changes in the fair value of the hedged item related to the designated risk being hedged, are reported within net investment gains (losses). The fair values of the hedging derivatives are exclusive of any accruals that are separately reported in the consolidated statement of income within interest income or interest expense to match the location of the hedged item.
 
Under a cash flow hedge, changes in the fair value of the hedging derivative measured as effective are reported within other comprehensive income (loss), a separate component of stockholders' equity, and the deferred gains or losses on the derivative are reclassified into the consolidated statement of income when the Company's earnings are affected by the variability in cash flows of the hedged item. Changes in the fair value of the hedging instrument measured as ineffectiveness are reported within net investment gains (losses). The fair values of the hedging derivatives are exclusive of any accruals that are separately reported in the consolidated statement of income within interest income or interest expense to match the location of the hedged item.
 
In a hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation, changes in the fair value of the hedging derivative that are measured as effective are reported within other comprehensive income (loss) consistent with the translation adjustment for the hedged net investment in the foreign operation. Changes in the fair value of the hedging instrument measured as ineffectiveness are reported within net investment gains (losses).
 
The Company discontinues hedge accounting prospectively when: (i) it is determined that the derivative is no longer highly effective in offsetting changes in the fair value or cash flows of a hedged item; (ii) the derivative expires, is sold, terminated, or exercised; (iii) it is no longer probable that the hedged forecasted transaction will occur; (iv) a hedged firm commitment no longer meets the definition of a firm commitment; or (v) the derivative is de-designated as a hedging instrument.
 
When hedge accounting is discontinued because it is determined that the derivative is not highly effective in offsetting changes in the fair value or cash flows of a hedged item, the derivative continues to be carried on the consolidated balance sheet at its fair value, with changes in fair value recognized currently in net investment gains (losses). The carrying value of the hedged recognized asset or liability under a fair value hedge is no longer adjusted for changes in its fair value due to the hedged risk, and the cumulative adjustment to its carrying value is amortized into income over the remaining life of the hedged item. Provided the hedged forecasted transaction is still probable of occurrence, the changes in fair value of derivatives recorded in other comprehensive income (loss) related to discontinued cash flow hedges are released into the consolidated statement of income when the Company's earnings are affected by the variability in cash flows of the hedged item.
 
When hedge accounting is discontinued because it is no longer probable that the forecasted transactions will occur by the end of the specified time period or the hedged item no longer meets the definition of a firm
Table of Contents
 
 
 
commitment, the derivative continues to be carried on the consolidated balance sheet at its fair value, with changes in fair value recognized currently in net investment gains (losses). Any asset or liability associated with a recognized firm commitment is derecognized from the consolidated balance sheet, and recorded currently in net investment gains (losses). Deferred gains and losses of a derivative recorded in other comprehensive income (loss) pursuant to the cash flow hedge of a forecasted transaction are recognized immediately in net investment gains (losses).
 
In all other situations in which hedge accounting is discontinued, the derivative is carried at its fair value on the consolidated balance sheet, with changes in its fair value recognized in the current period as net investment gains (losses).
 
The Company is also a party to financial instruments that contain terms which are deemed to be embedded derivatives. The Company assesses each identified embedded derivative to determine whether it is required to be bifurcated. If the instrument would not be accounted for in its entirety at fair value and it is determined that the terms of the embedded derivative are not clearly and closely related to the economic characteristics of the host contract, and that a separate instrument with the same terms would qualify as a derivative instrument, the embedded derivative is bifurcated from the host contract and accounted for as a freestanding derivative. Such embedded derivatives are carried on the consolidated balance sheet at fair value with the host contract and changes in their fair value are reported currently in net investment gains (losses). If the Company is unable to properly identify and measure an embedded derivative for separation from its host contract, the entire contract is carried on the balance sheet at fair value, with changes in fair value recognized in the current period in net investment gains (losses). Additionally, the Company may elect to carry an entire contract on the balance sheet at fair value, with changes in fair value recognized in the current period in net investment gains (losses) if that contract contains an embedded derivative that requires bifurcation. There is a risk that embedded derivatives requiring bifurcation may not be identified and reported at fair value in the consolidated financial statements and that their related changes in fair value could materially affect reported net income.
 
Cash and Cash Equivalents
 
The Company considers all highly liquid investments purchased with an original or remaining maturity of three months or less at the date of purchase to be cash equivalents.
 
Property, Equipment, Leasehold Improvements and Computer Software
 
Property, equipment and leasehold improvements, which are included in other assets, are stated at cost, less accumulated depreciation and amortization. Depreciation is determined using either the straight-line or sum-of-the-years-digits method over the estimated useful lives of the assets, as appropriate. The estimated life for company occupied real estate property is generally 40 years. Estimated lives generally range from five to ten years for leasehold improvements and three to seven years for all other property and equipment. The cost basis of the property, equipment and leasehold improvements was $1.6 billion and $1.4 billion at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Accumulated depreciation and amortization of property, equipment and leasehold improvements was $815 million and $704 million at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Related depreciation and amortization expense was $132 million, $125 million and $114 million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.
 
Computer software, which is included in other assets, is stated at cost, less accumulated amortization. Purchased software costs, as well as certain internal and external costs incurred to develop internal-use computer software during the application development stage, are capitalized. Such costs are amortized generally over a four-year period using the straight-line method. The cost basis of computer software was $1.3 billion and $1.2 billion at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Accumulated amortization of capitalized software was $858 million and $739 million at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Related amortization expense was $121 million, $109 million and $105 million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.
Table of Contents
 
 
 
Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs and Value of Business Acquired
 
The Company incurs significant costs in connection with acquiring new and renewal insurance business. Costs that vary with and relate to the production of new business are deferred as DAC. Such costs consist principally of commissions and agency and policy issue expenses. VOBA is an intangible asset that reflects the estimated fair value of in-force contracts in a life insurance company acquisition and represents the portion of the purchase price that is allocated to the value of the right to receive future cash flows from the business in-force at the acquisition date. VOBA is based on actuarially determined projections, by each block of business, of future policy and contract charges, premiums, mortality and morbidity, separate account performance, surrenders, operating expenses, investment returns and other factors. Actual experience on the purchased business may vary from these projections. The recovery of DAC and VOBA is dependent upon the future profitability of the related business. DAC and VOBA are aggregated in the financial statements for reporting purposes.
 
DAC for property and casualty insurance contracts, which is primarily composed of commissions and certain underwriting expenses, is amortized on a pro rata basis over the applicable contract term or reinsurance treaty.
 
DAC and VOBA on life insurance or investment-type contracts are amortized in proportion to gross premiums, gross margins or gross profits, depending on the type of contract as described below.
 
The Company amortizes DAC and VOBA related to non-participating and non-dividend-paying traditional contracts (term insurance, non-participating whole life insurance, non-medical health insurance, and traditional group life insurance) over the entire premium paying period in proportion to the present value of actual historic and expected future gross premiums. The present value of expected premiums is based upon the premium requirement of each policy and assumptions for mortality, morbidity, persistency, and investment returns at policy issuance, or policy acquisition, as it relates to VOBA, that include provisions for adverse deviation and are consistent with the assumptions used to calculate future policyholder benefit liabilities. These assumptions are not revised after policy issuance or acquisition unless the DAC or VOBA balance is deemed to be unrecoverable from future expected profits. Absent a premium deficiency, variability in amortization after policy issuance or acquisition is caused only by variability in premium volumes.
 
The Company amortizes DAC and VOBA related to participating, dividend-paying traditional contracts over the estimated lives of the contracts in proportion to actual and expected future gross margins. The amortization includes interest based on rates in effect at inception or acquisition of the contracts. The future gross margins are dependent principally on investment returns, policyholder dividend scales, mortality, persistency, expenses to administer the business, creditworthiness of reinsurance counterparties, and certain economic variables, such as inflation. For participating contracts (dividend paying traditional contracts within the closed block) future gross margins are also dependent upon changes in the policyholder dividend obligation. Of these factors, the Company anticipates that investment returns, expenses, persistency, and other factor changes and policyholder dividend scales are reasonably likely to impact significantly the rate of DAC and VOBA amortization. Each reporting period, the Company updates the estimated gross margins with the actual gross margins for that period. When the actual gross margins change from previously estimated gross margins, the cumulative DAC and VOBA amortization is re- estimated and adjusted by a cumulative charge or credit to current operations. When actual gross margins exceed those previously estimated, the DAC and VOBA amortization will increase, resulting in a current period charge to earnings. The opposite result occurs when the actual gross margins are below the previously estimated gross margins. Each reporting period, the Company also updates the actual amount of business in-force, which impacts expected future gross margins.
 
The Company amortizes DAC and VOBA related to fixed and variable universal life contracts and fixed and variable deferred annuity contracts over the estimated lives of the contracts in proportion to actual and expected future gross profits. The amortization includes interest based on rates in effect at inception or acquisition of the contracts. The amount of future gross profits is dependent principally upon returns in excess of the amounts credited to policyholders, mortality, persistency, interest crediting rates, expenses to administer the business,
Table of Contents
 
 
 
creditworthiness of reinsurance counterparties, the effect of any hedges used, and certain economic variables, such as inflation. Of these factors, the Company anticipates that investment returns, expenses, and persistency are reasonably likely to impact significantly the rate of DAC and VOBA amortization. Each reporting period, the Company updates the estimated gross profits with the actual gross profits for that period. When the actual gross profits change from previously estimated gross profits, the cumulative DAC and VOBA amortization is re-estimated and adjusted by a cumulative charge or credit to current operations. When actual gross profits exceed those previously estimated, the DAC and VOBA amortization will increase, resulting in a current period charge to earnings. The opposite result occurs when the actual gross profits are below the previously estimated gross profits. Each reporting period, the Company also updates the actual amount of business remaining in-force, which impacts expected future gross profits.
 
Separate account rates of return on variable universal life contracts and variable deferred annuity contracts affect in-force account balances on such contracts each reporting period. Returns that are higher than the Company's long-term expectation produce higher account balances, which increases the Company's future fee expectations and decreases future benefit payment expectations on minimum death benefit guarantees, resulting in higher expected future gross profits. The opposite result occurs when returns are lower than the Company's long-term expectation. The Company's practice to determine the impact of gross profits resulting from returns on separate accounts assumes that long-term appreciation in equity markets is not changed by short-term market fluctuations, but is only changed when sustained interim deviations are expected. The Company monitors these changes and only changes the assumption when its long-term expectation changes.
 
The Company also reviews periodically other long-term assumptions underlying the projections of estimated gross margins and profits. These include investment returns, policyholder dividend scales, interest crediting rates, mortality, persistency, and expenses to administer business. Management annually updates assumptions used in the calculation of estimated gross margins and profits which may have significantly changed. If the update of assumptions causes expected future gross margins and profits to increase, DAC and VOBA amortization will decrease, resulting in a current period increase to earnings. The opposite result occurs when the assumption update causes expected future gross margins and profits to decrease.
 
Prior to 2007, DAC related to any internally replaced contract was generally expensed at the date of replacement. As described more fully in "Adoption of New Accounting Pronouncements", effective January 1, 2007, the Company adopted Statement of Position ("SOP") Under an internal replacement is defined as a modification in product benefits, features, rights or coverages that occur by the exchange of a contract for a new contract, or by amendment, endorsement, or rider to a contract, or by election or coverage within a contract. If the modification substantially changes the contract, the DAC is written off immediately through income and any new deferrable costs associated with the replacement contract are deferred. If the modification does not substantially change the contract, the DAC amortization on the original contract will continue and any acquisition costs associated with the related modification are expensed.
05-1,
Accounting by Insurance Enterprises for Deferred Acquisition Costs in Connection with Modifications or Exchanges of Insurance Contracts
("SOP 05-1").
SOP 05-1,
 
Sales Inducements
 
The Company has two different types of sales inducements which are included in other assets: (i) the policyholder receives a bonus whereby the policyholder's initial account balance is increased by an amount equal to a specified percentage of the customer's deposit; and (ii) the policyholder receives a higher interest rate using a dollar cost averaging method than would have been received based on the normal general account interest rate credited. The Company defers sales inducements and amortizes them over the life of the policy using the same methodology and assumptions used to amortize DAC.
Table of Contents
 
 
 
Goodwill
 
Goodwill is the excess of cost over the fair value of net assets acquired. Goodwill is not amortized but is tested for impairment at least annually or more frequently if events or circumstances, such as adverse changes in the business climate, indicate that there may be justification for conducting an interim test. Impairment testing is performed using the fair value approach, which requires the use of estimates and judgment, at the "reporting unit" level. A reporting unit is the operating segment or a business one level below the operating segment, if discrete financial information is prepared and regularly reviewed by management at that level. For purposes of goodwill impairment testing, goodwill within Corporate & Other is allocated to reporting units within the Company's business segments. If the carrying value of a reporting unit's goodwill exceeds its fair value, the excess is recognized as an impairment and recorded as a charge against net income. The fair values of the reporting units are determined using a market multiple, a discounted cash flow model, or a cost approach. The critical estimates necessary in determining fair value are projected earnings, comparative market multiples and the discount rate.
 
Liability for Future Policy Benefits and Policyholder Account Balances
 
The Company establishes liabilities for amounts payable under insurance policies, including traditional life insurance, traditional annuities and non-medical health insurance. Generally, amounts are payable over an extended period of time and related liabilities are calculated as the present value of future expected benefits to be paid reduced by the present value of future expected premiums. Such liabilities are established based on methods and underlying assumptions in accordance with GAAP and applicable actuarial standards. Principal assumptions used in the establishment of liabilities for future policy benefits are mortality, morbidity, policy lapse, renewal, retirement, disability incidence, disability terminations, investment returns, inflation, expenses and other contingent events as appropriate to the respective product type. Utilizing these assumptions, liabilities are established on a block of business basis.
 
Future policy benefit liabilities for participating traditional life insurance policies are equal to the aggregate of (i) net level premium reserves for death and endowment policy benefits (calculated based upon the non-forfeiture interest rate, ranging from 3% to 10% for domestic business and 3% to 10% for international business, and mortality rates guaranteed in calculating the cash surrender values described in such contracts); and (ii) the liability for terminal dividends.
 
Future policy benefits for non-participating traditional life insurance policies are equal to the aggregate of the present value of expected future benefit payments and related expenses less the present value of expected future net premiums. Assumptions as to mortality and persistency are based upon the Company's experience when the basis of the liability is established. Interest rates for the aggregate future policy benefit liabilities range from 3% to 10% for domestic business and 3% to 12% for international business.
 
Participating business represented approximately 9% and 10% of the Company's life insurance in-force, and 33% and 38% of the number of life insurance policies in-force, at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Participating policies represented approximately 31% and 30%, 30% and 29%, and 31% and 30% of gross and net life insurance premiums for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.
 
Future policy benefit liabilities for individual and group traditional fixed annuities after annuitization are equal to the present value of expected future payments. Interest rates used in establishing such liabilities range from 3% to 11% for domestic business and 4% to 10% for international business.
 
Future policy benefit liabilities for non-medical health insurance are calculated using the net level premium method and assumptions as to future morbidity, withdrawals and interest, which provide a margin for adverse deviation. Interest rates used in establishing such liabilities range from 3% to 7% for domestic business and 3% to 10% for international business.
Table of Contents
 
 
 
Future policy benefit liabilities for disabled lives are estimated using the present value of benefits method and experience assumptions as to claim terminations, expenses and interest. Interest rates used in establishing such liabilities range from 3% to 8% for domestic business and 2% to 10% for international business.
 
Liabilities for unpaid claims and claim expenses for property and casualty insurance are included in future policyholder benefits and represent the amount estimated for claims that have been reported but not settled and claims incurred but not reported. Liabilities for unpaid claims are estimated based upon the Company's historical experience and other actuarial assumptions that consider the effects of current developments, anticipated trends and risk management programs, reduced for anticipated salvage and subrogation. The effects of changes in such estimated liabilities are included in the results of operations in the period in which the changes occur.
 
The Company establishes future policy benefit liabilities for minimum death and income benefit guarantees relating to certain annuity contracts and secondary and guarantees relating to certain life policies as follows:
paid-up
 
 
Liabilities for universal and variable life secondary guarantees and guarantees are determined by estimating the expected value of death benefits payable when the account balance is projected to be zero and recognizing those benefits ratably over the accumulation period based on total expected assessments. The Company regularly evaluates estimates used and adjusts the additional liability balances, with a related charge or credit to benefit expense, if actual experience or other evidence suggests that earlier assumptions should be revised. The assumptions used in estimating the secondary and guarantee liabilities are consistent with those used for amortizing DAC, and are thus subject to the same variability and risk. The assumptions of investment performance and volatility for variable products are consistent with historical S&P experience. The benefits used in calculating the liabilities are based on the average benefits payable over a range of scenarios.
paid-up
paid-up
 
The Company establishes policyholder account balances for guaranteed minimum benefit riders relating to certain variable annuity products as follows:
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
 
The fair values of the GMWB and GMAB riders are calculated based on actuarial and capital market assumptions related to the projected cash flows, including benefits and related contract charges, over the lives of the contracts, incorporating expectations concerning policyholder behavior. In measuring the fair value of GMWBs and GMABs, the Company attributes a portion of the fees collected from the policyholder equal to the present value of expected future guaranteed minimum withdrawal and accumulation benefits (at inception). The changes in fair value are reported in net investment gains (losses). Any additional fees represent "excess" fees and are reported in universal life and investment-type product policy fees. These riders may be more costly than expected in volatile or declining markets, causing an increase in liabilities for future policy benefits, negatively affecting net income.
 
The Company periodically reviews its estimates of actuarial liabilities for future policy benefits and compares them with its actual experience. Differences between actual experience and the assumptions used in pricing these policies, guarantees and riders and in the establishment of the related liabilities result in variances in profit and could result in losses. The effects of changes in such estimated liabilities are included in the results of operations in the period in which the changes occur.
 
Policyholder account balances relate to investment-type contracts and universal life-type policies. Investment-type contracts principally include traditional individual fixed annuities in the accumulation phase and non-variable group annuity contracts. Policyholder account balances are equal to (i) policy account values, which consist of an accumulation of gross premium payments; (ii) credited interest, ranging from 1% to 17% for domestic business and 1% to 15% for international business, less expenses, mortality charges, and withdrawals; and (iii) fair value adjustments relating to business combinations. Bank deposits are also included in policyholder account balances.
 
Other Policyholder Funds
 
Other policyholder funds include policy and contract claims, unearned revenue liabilities, premiums received in advance, policyholder dividends due and unpaid, and policyholder dividends left on deposit.
 
The liability for policy and contract claims generally relates to incurred but not reported death, disability, care and dental claims as well as claims which have been reported but not yet settled. The liability for these claims is based on the Company's estimated ultimate cost of settling all claims. The Company derives estimates for the development of incurred but not reported claims principally from actuarial analyses of historical patterns of claims and claims development for each line of business. The methods used to determine these estimates are continually reviewed. Adjustments resulting from this continuous review process and differences between estimates and payments for claims are recognized in policyholder benefits and claims expense in the period in which the estimates are changed or payments are made.
long-term
 
The unearned revenue liability relates to universal life-type and investment-type products and represents policy charges for services to be provided in future periods. The charges are deferred as unearned revenue and amortized using the product's estimated gross profits and margins, similar to DAC. Such amortization is recorded in universal life and investment-type product policy fees.
Table of Contents
 
 
 
The Company accounts for the prepayment of premiums on its individual life, group life and health contracts as premium received in advance and applies the cash received to premiums when due.
 
Also included in other policyholder funds are policyholder dividends due and unpaid on participating policies and policyholder dividends left on deposit. Such liabilities are presented at amounts contractually due to policyholders.
 
Recognition of Insurance Revenue and Related Benefits
 
Premiums related to traditional life and annuity policies with life contingencies are recognized as revenues when due from policyholders. Policyholder benefits and expenses are provided against such revenues to recognize profits over the estimated lives of the policies. When premiums are due over a significantly shorter period than the period over which benefits are provided, any excess profit is deferred and recognized into operations in a constant relationship to insurance in-force or, for annuities, the amount of expected future policy benefit payments.
 
Premiums related to non-medical health and disability contracts are recognized on a pro rata basis over the applicable contract term.
 
Deposits related to universal life-type and investment-type products are credited to policyholder account balances. Revenues from such contracts consist of amounts assessed against policyholder account balances for mortality, policy administration and surrender charges and are recorded in universal life and investment-type product policy fees in the period in which services are provided. Amounts that are charged to operations include interest credited and benefit claims incurred in excess of related policyholder account balances.
 
Premiums related to property and casualty contracts are recognized as revenue on a pro rata basis over the applicable contract term. Unearned premiums, representing the portion of premium written relating to the unexpired coverage, are included in future policy benefits.
 
Premiums, policy fees, policyholder benefits and expenses are presented net of reinsurance.
 
Other Revenues
 
Other revenues include advisory fees, broker-dealer commissions and fees, and administrative service fees. Such fees and commissions are recognized in the period in which services are performed. Other revenues also include changes in account value relating to corporate-owned life insurance ("COLI"). Under certain COLI contracts, if the Company reports certain unlikely adverse results in its consolidated financial statements, withdrawals would not be immediately available and would be subject to market value adjustment, which could result in a reduction of the account value.
 
Policyholder Dividends
 
Policyholder dividends are approved annually by the insurance subsidiaries' boards of directors. The aggregate amount of policyholder dividends is related to actual interest, mortality, morbidity and expense experience for the year, as well as management's judgment as to the appropriate level of statutory surplus to be retained by the insurance subsidiaries.
 
Income Taxes
 
The Holding Company and its includable life insurance and non-life insurance subsidiaries file a consolidated U.S. federal income tax return in accordance with the provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"). Non-includable subsidiaries file either separate individual corporate tax returns or separate consolidated tax returns.
Table of Contents
 
 
 
The Company's accounting for income taxes represents management's best estimate of various events and transactions.
 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities resulting from temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities are measured at the balance sheet date using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years the temporary differences are expected to reverse.
 
The realization of deferred tax assets depends upon the existence of sufficient taxable income within the carryback or carryforward periods under the tax law in the applicable tax jurisdiction. Valuation allowances are established when management determines, based on available information, that it is more likely than not that deferred income tax assets will not be realized. Significant judgment is required in determining whether valuation allowances should be established as well as the amount of such allowances. When making such determination, consideration is given to, among other things, the following:
 
(i) future taxable income exclusive of reversing temporary differences and carryforwards;
 
(ii) future reversals of existing taxable temporary differences;
 
(iii) taxable income in prior carryback years; and
 
(iv) tax planning strategies.
 
The Company may be required to change its provision for income taxes in certain circumstances. Examples of such circumstances include when the ultimate deductibility of certain items is challenged by taxing authorities (See also Note 15) or when estimates used in determining valuation allowances on deferred tax assets significantly change or when receipt of new information indicates the need for adjustment in valuation allowances. Additionally, future events, such as changes in tax laws, tax regulations, or interpretations of such laws or regulations, could have an impact on the provision for income tax and the effective tax rate. Any such changes could significantly affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements in the year these changes occur.
 
As described more fully in "Adoption of New Accounting Pronouncements", the Company adopted FIN No. 48, ("FIN 48") effective January 1, 2007. Under FIN 48, the Company determines whether it is more-likely-than-not that a tax position will be sustained upon examination by the appropriate taxing authorities before any part of the benefit can be recorded in the financial statements. A tax position is measured at the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50 percent likely of being realized upon settlement. Unrecognized tax benefits due to tax uncertainties that do not meet the threshold are included within other liabilities and are charged to earnings in the period that such determination is made.
Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes  An Interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109
 
The Company classifies interest recognized as interest expense and penalties recognized as a component of income tax.
 
Reinsurance
 
The Company enters into reinsurance transactions as both a provider and a purchaser of reinsurance for its life and property and casualty insurance products.
 
For each of its reinsurance contracts, the Company determines if the contract provides indemnification against loss or liability relating to insurance risk in accordance with applicable accounting standards. The Company reviews all contractual features, particularly those that may limit the amount of insurance risk to which the reinsurer is subject or features that delay the timely reimbursement of claims.
 
For reinsurance of existing in-force blocks of long-duration contracts that transfer significant insurance risk, the difference, if any, between the amounts paid (received), and the liabilities ceded (assumed) related to the underlying contracts is considered the net cost of reinsurance at the inception of the contract. The net cost of
Table of Contents
 
 
 
reinsurance is recorded as an adjustment to DAC and recognized as a component of other expenses on a basis consistent with the way the acquisition costs on the underlying reinsured contracts would be recognized. Subsequent amounts paid (received) on the reinsurance of in-force blocks, as well as amounts paid (received) related to new business, are recorded as ceded (assumed) premiums and ceded (assumed) future policy benefit liabilities are established.
 
For prospective reinsurance of short-duration contracts that meet the criteria for reinsurance accounting, amounts paid (received) are recorded as ceded (assumed) premiums and ceded (assumed) unearned premiums and are reflected as a component of premiums and other receivables (future policy benefits). Such amounts are amortized through earned premiums over the remaining contract period in proportion to the amount of protection provided. For retroactive reinsurance of short-duration contracts that meet the criteria of reinsurance accounting, amounts paid (received) in excess of (which do not exceed) the related insurance liabilities ceded (assumed) are recognized immediately as a loss. Any gains on such retroactive contracts are deferred and recorded in other liabilities. The gains are amortized primarily using the recovery method.
 
The assumptions used to account for both long and short-duration reinsurance contracts are consistent with those used for the underlying contracts. Ceded policyholder and contract related liabilities, other than those currently due, are reported gross on the balance sheet.
 
Amounts currently recoverable under reinsurance contracts are included in premiums and other receivables and amounts currently payable are included in other liabilities. Such assets and liabilities relating to reinsurance contracts with the same reinsurer may be recorded net on the balance sheet, if a right of offset exists within the reinsurance contract.
 
Premiums, fees and policyholder benefits and claims include amounts assumed under reinsurance contracts and are net of reinsurance ceded.
 
If the Company determines that a reinsurance contract does not expose the reinsurer to a reasonable possibility of a significant loss from insurance risk, the Company records the contract using the deposit method of accounting. Deposits received are included in other liabilities and deposits made are included within other assets. As amounts are paid or received, consistent with the underlying contracts, the deposit assets or liabilities are adjusted. Interest on such deposits is recorded as other revenues or other expenses, as appropriate. Periodically, the Company evaluates the adequacy of the expected payments or recoveries and adjusts the deposit asset or liability through other revenues or other expenses, as appropriate.
 
Amounts received from reinsurers for policy administration are reported in other revenues.
 
Accounting for reinsurance requires extensive use of assumptions and estimates, particularly related to the future performance of the underlying business and the potential impact of counterparty credit risks. The Company periodically reviews actual and anticipated experience compared to the aforementioned assumptions used to establish assets and liabilities relating to ceded and assumed reinsurance and evaluates the financial strength of counterparties to its reinsurance agreements using criteria similar to that evaluated in the security impairment process discussed previously.
 
Separate Accounts
 
Separate accounts are established in conformity with insurance laws and are generally not chargeable with liabilities that arise from any other business of the Company. Separate account assets are subject to general account claims only to the extent the value of such assets exceeds the separate account liabilities. The Company reports separately, as assets and liabilities, investments held in separate accounts and liabilities of the separate accounts if (i) such separate accounts are legally recognized; (ii) assets supporting the contract liabilities are legally insulated from the Company's general account liabilities; (iii) investments are directed by the contractholder; and (iv) all investment performance, net of contract fees and assessments, is passed through to the contractholder. The
Table of Contents
 
 
 
Company reports separate account assets meeting such criteria at their fair value. Investment performance (including investment income, net investment gains (losses) and changes in unrealized gains (losses)) and the corresponding amounts credited to contractholders of such separate accounts are offset within the same line in the consolidated statements of income.
 
The Company's revenues reflect fees charged to the separate accounts, including mortality charges, risk charges, policy administration fees, investment management fees and surrender charges. Separate accounts not meeting the above criteria are combined on a basis with the Company's general account assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses.
line-by-line
 
Employee Benefit Plans
 
Certain subsidiaries of the Holding Company (the "Subsidiaries") sponsor administer various plans that provide defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefits covering eligible employees and sales representatives. A December 31 measurement date is used for all of the Subsidiaries' defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit plans.
and/or
 
Pension benefits are provided utilizing either a traditional formula or cash balance formula. The traditional formula provides benefits based upon years of credited service and either final average or career average earnings. The cash balance formula utilizes hypothetical or notional accounts which credit participants with benefits equal to a percentage of eligible pay as well as earnings credits, determined annually based upon the average annual rate of interest on Treasury securities, for each account balance. As of December 31, 2007, virtually all the obligations are calculated using the traditional formula.
30-year
 
The Subsidiaries also provide certain postemployment benefits and certain postretirement medical and life insurance benefits for retired employees. Employees of the Subsidiaries who were hired prior to 2003 (or, in certain cases, rehired during or after 2003) and meet age and service criteria while working for one of the Subsidiaries, may become eligible for these other postretirement benefits, at various levels, in accordance with the applicable plans. Virtually all retirees, or their beneficiaries, contribute a portion of the total cost of postretirement medical benefits. Employees hired after 2003 are not eligible for any employer subsidy for postretirement medical benefits.
 
SFAS No. 87, ("SFAS 87"), as amended, established the accounting for pension plan obligations. Under SFAS 87, the projected pension benefit obligation ("PBO") is defined as the actuarially calculated present value of vested and non-vested pension benefits accrued based on future salary levels. The accumulated pension benefit obligation ("ABO") is the actuarial present value of vested and non-vested pension benefits accrued based on current salary levels. Obligations, both PBO and ABO, of the defined benefit pension plans are determined using a variety of actuarial assumptions, from which actual results may vary, as described below.
Employers' Accounting for Pensions
 
SFAS No. 106, ("SFAS 106"), as amended, established the accounting for expected postretirement plan benefit obligations ("EPBO") which represents the actuarial present value of all other postretirement benefits expected to be paid after retirement to employees and their dependents. Unlike for pensions, the EPBO is not recorded in the financial statements but is used in measuring the periodic expense. The accumulated postretirement plan benefit obligations ("APBO") represents the actuarial present value of future other postretirement benefits attributed to employee services rendered through a particular date and is the valuation basis upon which liabilities are established. The APBO is determined using a variety of actuarial assumptions, from which actual results may vary, as described below.
Employers' Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other than Pensions
 
Prior to December 31, 2006, the funded status of the pension and other postretirement plans, which is the difference between the fair value of plan assets and the PBO for pension plans and the APBO for other postretirement plans (collectively, the "Benefit Obligations"), were offset by the unrecognized actuarial gains or losses, prior service cost and transition obligations to determine prepaid or accrued benefit cost, as applicable. The net amount was recorded as a prepaid or accrued benefit cost, as applicable. Further, for pension plans, if the
Table of Contents
 
 
 
ABO exceeded the fair value of the plan assets, that excess was recorded as an additional minimum pension liability with a corresponding intangible asset. Recognition of the intangible asset was limited to the amount of any unrecognized prior service cost. Any additional minimum pension liability in excess of the allowable intangible asset was charged, net of income tax, to accumulated other comprehensive income.
 
As described more fully in "Adoption of New Accounting Pronouncements", effective December 31, 2006, the Company adopted SFAS No. 158, ("SFAS 158"). Effective with the adoption of SFAS 158 on December 31, 2006, the Company recognizes the funded status of the Benefit Obligations for each of its plans on the consolidated balance sheet. The actuarial gains or losses, prior service costs and credits, and the remaining net transition asset or obligation that had not yet been included in net periodic benefit costs as of December 31, 2006 are now charged, net of income tax, to accumulated other comprehensive income. Additionally, these changes eliminated the additional minimum pension liability provisions of SFAS 87.
Employers' Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans  an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106, and SFAS No. 132(r)
 
Net periodic benefit cost is determined using management estimates and actuarial assumptions to derive service cost, interest cost, and expected return on plan assets for a particular year. Net periodic benefit cost also includes the applicable amortization of any prior service cost (credit) arising from the increase (decrease) in prior years' benefit costs due to plan amendments or initiation of new plans. These costs are amortized into net periodic benefit cost over the expected service years of employees whose benefits are affected by such plan amendments. Actual experience related to plan assets the benefit obligations may differ from that originally assumed when determining net periodic benefit cost for a particular period, resulting in gains or losses. To the extent such aggregate gains or losses exceed 10 percent of the greater of the benefit obligations or the market-related asset value of the plans, they are amortized into net periodic benefit cost over the expected service years of employees expected to receive benefits under the plans.
and/or
 
The obligations and expenses associated with these plans require an extensive use of assumptions such as the discount rate, expected rate of return on plan assets, rate of future compensation increases, healthcare cost trend rates, as well as assumptions regarding participant demographics such as rate and age of retirements, withdrawal rates and mortality. Management, in consultation with its external consulting actuarial firm, determines these assumptions based upon a variety of factors such as historical performance of the plan and its assets, currently available market and industry data, and expected benefit payout streams. The assumptions used may differ materially from actual results due to, among other factors, changing market and economic conditions and changes in participant demographics. These differences may have a significant effect on the Company's consolidated financial statements and liquidity.
 
The Subsidiaries also sponsor defined contribution savings and investment plans ("SIP") for substantially all employees under which a portion of employee contributions are matched. Applicable matching contributions are made each payroll period. Accordingly, the Company recognizes compensation cost for current matching contributions. As all contributions are transferred currently as earned to the SIP trust, no liability for matching contributions is recognized in the consolidated balance sheets.
 
Stock-Based Compensation
 
Stock-based compensation grants prior to January 1, 2003 were accounted for using the intrinsic value method prescribed by Accounting Principles Board ("APB") Opinion No. 25, ("APB 25"), and related interpretations. Compensation expense, if any, was recorded based upon the excess of the quoted market price at grant date over the amount the employee was required to pay to acquire the stock. Under the provisions of APB 25, there was no compensation expense resulting from the issuance of stock options as the exercise price was equivalent to the fair market value at the date of grant. Compensation expense was recognized under the Long-Term Performance Compensation Plan ("LTPCP"), as described more fully in Note 18.
Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees
Table of Contents
 
 
 
Stock-based awards granted after December 31, 2002 but prior to January 1, 2006 were accounted for on a prospective basis using the fair value accounting method prescribed by SFAS No. 123, ("SFAS 123"), as amended by SFAS No. 148, ("SFAS 148"). The fair value method of SFAS 123 required compensation expense to be measured based on the fair value of the equity instrument at the grant or award date. Stock-based compensation was accrued over the vesting period of the grant or award, including grants or awards to retirement-eligible employees. As required by SFAS 148, the Company discloses the pro forma impact as if the stock options granted prior to January 1, 2003 had been accounted for using the fair value provisions of SFAS 123 rather than the intrinsic value method prescribed by APB 25. See Note 18.
Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation
Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation  Transition and Disclosure
 
Effective January 1, 2006, the Company adopted, using the modified prospective transition method, SFAS No. 123 (revised 2004), ("SFAS 123(r)"), which replaces SFAS 123 and supersedes APB 25. The adoption of SFAS 123(r) did not have a significant impact on the Company's financial position or results of operations. SFAS 123(r) requires that the cost of all stock-based transactions be measured at fair value and recognized over the period during which a grantee is required to provide goods or services in exchange for the award. Although the terms of the Company's stock-based plans do not accelerate vesting upon retirement, or the attainment of retirement eligibility, the requisite service period subsequent to attaining such eligibility is considered nonsubstantive. Accordingly, the Company recognizes compensation expense related to stock-based awards over the shorter of the requisite service period or the period to attainment of retirement eligibility. SFAS 123(r) also requires an estimation of future forfeitures of stock-based awards to be incorporated into the determination of compensation expense when recognizing expense over the requisite service period.
Share-Based Payment
 
Foreign Currency
 
Balance sheet accounts of foreign operations are translated at the exchange rates in effect at each year-end and income and expense accounts are translated at the average rates of exchange prevailing during the year. The local currencies of foreign operations generally are the functional currencies unless the local economy is highly inflationary. Translation adjustments are charged or credited directly to other comprehensive income or loss. Gains and losses from foreign currency transactions are reported as net investment gains (losses) in the period in which they occur.
 
Discontinued Operations
 
The results of operations of a component of the Company that either has been disposed of or is classified as held-for-sale are reported in discontinued operations if the operations and cash flows of the component have been or will be eliminated from the ongoing operations of the Company as a result of the disposal transaction and the Company will not have any significant continuing involvement in the operations of the component after the disposal transaction.
 
Earnings Per Common Share
 
Basic earnings per common share are computed based on the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period. The difference between the number of shares assumed issued and number of shares assumed purchased represents the dilutive shares. Diluted earnings per common share include the dilutive effect of the assumed: (i) exercise or issuance of stock-based awards using the treasury stock method; (ii) settlement of stock purchase contracts underlying common equity units using the treasury stock method; and (iii) settlement of accelerated common stock repurchase contract. Under the treasury stock method, exercise or issuance of stock- based awards and settlement of the stock purchase contracts underlying common equity units is assumed to occur with the proceeds used to purchase common stock at the average market price for the period. See Notes 13, 18 and 20.
Table of Contents
 
 
 
Litigation Contingencies
 
The Company is a party to a number of legal actions and is involved in a number of regulatory investigations. Given the inherent unpredictability of these matters, it is difficult to estimate the impact on the Company's financial position. Liabilities are established when it is probable that a loss has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. On a quarterly and annual basis, the Company reviews relevant information with respect to liabilities for litigation, regulatory investigations and litigation-related contingencies to be reflected in the Company's consolidated financial statements. It is possible that an adverse outcome in certain of the Company's litigation and regulatory investigations, or the use of different assumptions in the determination of amounts recorded could have a material effect upon the Company's consolidated net income or cash flows in particular quarterly or annual periods.
 
Adoption of New Accounting Pronouncements
 
Income Taxes
 
Effective January 1, 2007, the Company adopted FIN 48. FIN 48 clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income tax recognized in a company's financial statements. FIN 48 requires companies to determine whether it is "more likely than not" that a tax position will be sustained upon examination by the appropriate taxing authorities before any part of the benefit can be recorded in the financial statements. It also provides guidance on the recognition, measurement, and classification of income tax uncertainties, along with any related interest and penalties. Previously recorded income tax benefits that no longer meet this standard are required to be charged to earnings in the period that such determination is made.
 
As a result of the implementation of FIN 48, the Company recognized a $35 million increase in the liability for unrecognized tax benefits and a $9 million decrease in the interest liability for unrecognized tax benefits, as well as a $17 million increase in the liability for unrecognized tax benefits and a $5 million increase in the interest liability for unrecognized tax benefits which are included in liabilities of subsidiaries held-for-sale. The corresponding reduction to the January 1, 2007 balance of retained earnings was $37 million, net of $11 million of minority interest included in liabilities of subsidiaries held-for-sale. See also Note 15.
 
Insurance Contracts
 
Effective January 1, 2007, the Company adopted which provides guidance on accounting by insurance enterprises for DAC on internal replacements of insurance and investment contracts other than those specifically described in SFAS 97, defines an internal replacement and is effective for internal replacements occurring in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2006. In addition, in February 2007, the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants ("AICPA") issued related Technical Practice Aids ("TPAs") to provide further clarification of The TPAs became effective concurrently with the adoption of
SOP 05-1
Accounting and Reporting by Insurance Enterprises for Certain Long-Duration Contracts and for Realized Gains and Losses from the Sale of Investments.
SOP 05-1
SOP 05-1.
SOP 05-1.
 
As a result of the adoption of and the related TPAs, if an internal replacement modification substantially changes a contract, then the DAC is written off immediately through income and any new deferrable costs associated with the new replacement are deferred. If a contract modification does not substantially change the contract, the DAC amortization on the original contract will continue and any acquisition costs associated with the related modification are immediately expensed.
SOP 05-1
 
The adoption of and the related TPAs resulted in a reduction to DAC and VOBA on January 1, 2007 and an acceleration of the amortization period relating primarily to the Company's group life and health insurance contracts that contain certain rate reset provisions. Prior to the adoption of DAC on such contracts was amortized over the expected renewable life of the contract. Upon adoption of DAC on such contracts is to
SOP 05-1
SOP 05-1,
SOP 05-1,
Table of Contents
 
 
 
be amortized over the rate reset period. The impact as of January 1, 2007 was a cumulative effect adjustment of $292 million, net of income tax of $161 million, which was recorded as a reduction to retained earnings.
 
Defined Benefit and Other Postretirement Plans
 
Effective December 31, 2006, the Company adopted SFAS 158. The pronouncement revises financial reporting standards for defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans by requiring the:
 
 
The adoption of SFAS 158 resulted in a reduction of $744 million, net of income tax, to accumulated other comprehensive income, which is included as a component of total consolidated stockholders' equity. As the Company's measurement date for its pension and other postretirement benefit plans is already December 31 there was no impact of adoption due to changes in measurement date. See also "Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Critical Accounting Estimates" and Note 17.
 
Stock Compensation Plans
 
As described previously, effective January 1, 2006, the Company adopted SFAS 123(r) including supplemental application guidance issued by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") in Staff Accounting Bulletin ("SAB") No. 107, ("SAB 107")  using the modified prospective transition method. In accordance with the modified prospective transition method, results for prior periods have not been restated. SFAS 123(r) requires that the cost of all stock-based transactions be measured at fair value and recognized over the period during which a grantee is required to provide goods or services in exchange for the award. The Company had previously adopted the fair value method of accounting for stock-based awards as prescribed by SFAS 123 on a prospective basis effective January 1, 2003, and prior to January 1, 2003, accounted for its stock-based awards to employees under the intrinsic value method prescribed by APB 25. The Company did not modify the substantive terms of any existing awards prior to adoption of SFAS 123(r).
Share-Based Payment
 
Under the modified prospective transition method, compensation expense recognized during the year ended December 31, 2006 includes: (a) compensation expense for all stock-based awards granted prior to, but not yet vested as of January 1, 2006, based on the grant date fair value estimated in accordance with the original provisions of SFAS 123, and (b) compensation expense for all stock-based awards granted beginning January 1, 2006, based on the grant date fair value estimated in accordance with the provisions of SFAS 123(r).
 
The adoption of SFAS 123(r) did not have a significant impact on the Company's financial position or results of operations as all stock-based awards accounted for under the intrinsic value method prescribed by APB 25 had vested prior to the adoption date and the Company had adopted the fair value recognition provisions of SFAS 123 on January 1, 2003. As required by SFAS 148, and carried forward in the provisions of SFAS 123(r), the Company
Table of Contents
 
 
 
discloses the pro forma impact as if stock-based awards accounted for under APB 25 had been accounted for under the fair value method in Note 18.
 
SFAS 123 allowed forfeitures of stock-based awards to be recognized as a reduction of compensation expense in the period in which the forfeiture occurred. Upon adoption of SFAS 123(r), the Company changed its policy and now incorporates an estimate of future forfeitures into the determination of compensation expense when recognizing expense over the requisite service period. The impact of this change in accounting policy was not significant to the Company's financial position or results of operations as of the date of adoption.
 
Additionally, for awards granted after adoption, the Company changed its policy from recognizing expense for stock-based awards over the requisite service period to recognizing such expense over the shorter of the requisite service period or the period to attainment of retirement-eligibility. The pro forma impact of this change in expense recognition policy for stock-based compensation is detailed in Note 18.
 
Prior to the adoption of SFAS 123(r), the Company presented tax benefits of deductions resulting from the exercise of stock options within operating cash flows in the consolidated statements of cash flows. SFAS 123(r) requires tax benefits resulting from tax deductions in excess of the compensation cost recognized for those options be classified and reported as a financing cash inflow upon adoption of SFAS 123(r).
 
Derivative Financial Instruments
 
The Company has adopted guidance relating to derivative financial instruments as follows:
 
 
 
The adoption of SFAS 155 did not have a material impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements.
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
 
Other
 
Effective January 1, 2007, the Company adopted FASB Staff Position ("FSP") Emerging Issues Task Force ("EITF") ("FSP FSP specifies that the contingent obligation to make future payments or otherwise transfer consideration under a registration payment arrangement should be separately recognized and measured in accordance with SFAS No. 5, The adoption of FSP did not have an impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements.
00-19-2,
Accounting for Registration Payment Arrangements
EITF 00-19-2").
EITF 00-19-2
Accounting for Contingencies.
EITF 00-19-2
 
Effective January 1, 2007, the Company adopted FSP amends SFAS No. 13, , to require that a lessor review the projected timing of income tax cash flows generated by a leveraged lease annually or more frequently if events or circumstances indicate that a change in timing has occurred or is projected to occur. In addition, requires that the change in the net investment balance resulting from the recalculation be recognized as a gain or loss from continuing operations in the same line item in which leveraged lease income is recognized in the year in which the assumption is changed. The adoption of did not have a material impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements.
No. FAS 13-2,
Accounting for a Change or Projected Change in the Timing of Cash Flows Relating to Income Taxes Generated by a Leveraged Lease Transaction
("FSP 13-2").
FSP 13-2
Accounting for Leases
FSP 13-2
FSP 13-2
 
Effective January 1, 2007, the Company adopted SFAS No. 156, ("SFAS 156"). Among other requirements, SFAS 156 requires an entity to recognize a servicing asset or servicing liability each time it undertakes an obligation to service a financial asset by entering into a servicing contract in certain situations. The adoption of SFAS 156 did not have an impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements.
Accounting for Servicing of Financial Assets  an amendment of FASB Statement No. 140
 
Effective November 15, 2006, the Company adopted SAB No. 108, ("SAB 108"). SAB 108 provides guidance on how prior year misstatements should be considered when quantifying misstatements in current year financial statements for purposes of assessing materiality. SAB 108 requires that registrants quantify errors using both a balance sheet and income statement approach and evaluate whether either approach results in quantifying a misstatement that, when relevant quantitative and qualitative factors are considered, is material. SAB 108 permits companies to initially apply its provisions by either restating prior financial statements or recording a cumulative effect adjustment to the carrying values of assets and liabilities as of January 1, 2006 with an offsetting adjustment to retained earnings for errors that were previously deemed immaterial but are material under the guidance in SAB 108. The adoption of SAB 108 did not have a material impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements.
Considering the Effects of Prior Year Misstatements when Quantifying Misstatements in Current Year Financial Statements
 
Effective January 1, 2006, the Company adopted prospectively EITF Issue provides guidance on whether a modification of conversion options embedded in debt results in an extinguishment of that debt. In certain situations, companies may change the terms of an embedded conversion option as part of a debt modification. The EITF concluded that the change in the fair value of an embedded conversion option upon
No. 05-7,
Accounting for Modifications to Conversion Options Embedded in Debt Instruments and Related Issues
("EITF 05-7").
EITF 05-7
Table of Contents
 
 
 
modification should be included in the analysis of EITF Issue , to determine whether a modification or extinguishment has occurred and that a change in the fair value of a conversion option should be recognized upon the modification as a discount (or premium) associated with the debt, and an increase (or decrease) in additional paid-in capital. The adoption of did not have a material impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements.
No. 96-19,
Debtor's Accounting for a Modification or Exchange of Debt Instruments
EITF 05-7
 
Effective January 1, 2006, the Company adopted EITF Issue concludes that: (i) the issuance of convertible debt with a beneficial conversion feature results in a basis difference that should be accounted for as a temporary difference; and (ii) the establishment of the deferred tax liability for the basis difference should result in an adjustment to additional paid-in capital. was applied retrospectively for all instruments with a beneficial conversion feature accounted for in accordance with EITF Issue , and EITF Issue The adoption of did not have a material impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements.
No. 05-8,
Income Tax Consequences of Issuing Convertible Debt with a Beneficial Conversion Feature
("EITF 05-8").
EITF 05-8
EITF 05-8
No. 98-5,
Accounting for Convertible Securities with Beneficial Conversion Features or Contingently Adjustable Conversion Ratios
No. 00-27,
Application of Issue to Certain Convertible Instruments.
No. 98-5
EITF 05-8
 
Effective January 1, 2006, the Company adopted SFAS No. 154, ("SFAS 154"). SFAS 154 requires retrospective application to prior periods' financial statements for a voluntary change in accounting principle unless it is deemed impracticable. It also requires that a change in the method of depreciation, amortization, or depletion for long-lived, non-financial assets be accounted for as a change in accounting estimate rather than a change in accounting principle. The adoption of SFAS 154 did not have a material impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements.
Accounting Changes and Error Corrections, a replacement of APB Opinion No. 20 and FASB Statement No. 3
 
In June 2005, the EITF reached consensus on Issue provides a framework for determining whether a general partner controls and should consolidate a limited partnership or a similar entity in light of certain rights held by the limited partners. The consensus also provides additional guidance on substantive rights. was effective after June 29, 2005 for all newly formed partnerships and for any pre-existing limited partnerships that modified their partnership agreements after that date. For all other limited partnerships, required adoption by January 1, 2006 through a cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle recorded in opening equity or applied retrospectively by adjusting prior period financial statements. The adoption of the provisions of did not have a material impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements.
No. 04-5,
Determining Whether a General Partner, or the General Partners as a Group, Controls a Limited Partnership or Similar Entity When the Limited Partners Have Certain Rights
("EITF 04-5").
EITF 04-5
EITF 04-5
EITF 04-5
EITF 04-5
 
Effective November 9, 2005, the Company prospectively adopted the guidance in FSP clarified certain criteria relating to derivatives and beneficial interests when considering whether an entity qualifies as a QSPE. Under the criteria must only be met at the date the QSPE issues beneficial interests or when a derivative financial instrument needs to be replaced upon the occurrence of a specified event outside the control of the transferor. The adoption of did not have a material impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements.
No. FAS 140-2,
Clarification of the Application of Paragraphs 40(b) and 40(c) of FAS 140
("FSP 140-2").
FSP 140-2
FSP 140-2,
FSP 140-2
 
Effective July 1, 2005, the Company adopted SFAS No. 153, ("SFAS 153"). SFAS 153 amended prior guidance to eliminate the exception for nonmonetary exchanges of similar productive assets and replaced it with a general exception for exchanges of nonmonetary assets that do not have commercial substance. A nonmonetary exchange has commercial substance if the future cash flows of the entity are expected to change significantly as a result of the exchange. The provisions of SFAS 153 were required to be applied prospectively for fiscal periods beginning after June 15, 2005. The adoption of SFAS 153 did not have a material impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements.
Exchanges of Nonmonetary Assets, an amendment of APB Opinion No. 29
 
Effective July 1, 2005, the Company adopted EITF Issue provides guidance on determining the amortization period for leasehold improvements acquired in a business combination or acquired subsequent to lease inception. As required
No. 05-6,
Determining the Amortization Period for Leasehold Improvements
("EITF 05-6").
EITF 05-6
Table of Contents
 
 
 
by the Company adopted this guidance on a prospective basis which had no material impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements.
EITF 05-6,
 
In June 2005, the FASB completed its review of EITF Issue provides accounting guidance regarding the determination of when an impairment of debt and marketable equity securities and investments accounted for under the cost method should be considered other-than-temporary and recognized in income. also requires certain quantitative and qualitative disclosures for debt and marketable equity securities classified as available-for-sale or held-to-maturity under SFAS No. 115, , that are impaired at the balance sheet date but for which an other-than-temporary impairment has not been recognized. The FASB decided not to provide additional guidance on the meaning of other-than-temporary impairment but has issued FSP Nos. and which nullifies the accounting guidance on the determination of whether an investment is other-than-temporarily impaired as set forth in As required by the Company adopted this guidance on a prospective basis, which had no material impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements, and has provided the required disclosures.
No. 03-1,
The Meaning of Other-Than-Temporary Impairment and Its Application to Certain Investments
("EITF 03-1").
EITF 03-1
EITF 03-1
Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities
FAS 115-1
FAS 124-1,
The Meaning of Other-Than-Temporary Impairment and its Application to Certain Investments
("FSP 115-1"),
EITF 03-1.
FSP 115-1,
 
In December 2004, the FASB issued FSP The American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 ("AJCA") introduced a one-time dividend received deduction on the repatriation of certain earnings to a U.S. taxpayer. provides companies additional time beyond the financial reporting period of enactment to evaluate the effects of the AJCA on their plans to repatriate foreign earnings for purposes of applying SFAS No. 109, During 2005, the Company recorded a $27 million income tax benefit related to the repatriation of foreign earnings pursuant to Internal Revenue Code Section 965 for which a U.S. deferred income tax provision had previously been recorded. As of January 1, 2006, the repatriation provision of the AJCA no longer applies to the Company.
No. FAS 109-2,
Accounting and Disclosure Guidance for the Foreign Earnings Repatriation Provision within the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004
("FSP 109-2").
FSP 109-2
Accounting for Income Taxes.
 
Future Adoption of New Accounting Pronouncements
 
Fair Value
 
In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157, ("SFAS 157"). SFAS 157 defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value and requires enhanced disclosures about fair value measurements. Effective January 1, 2008, the Company adopted SFAS 157 and applied the provisions of the statement prospectively to assets and liabilities measured and disclosed at fair value. In addition to new disclosure requirements, the adoption of SFAS 157 changes the valuation of certain freestanding derivatives by moving from a mid to bid pricing convention as well as changing the valuation of embedded derivatives associated with annuity contracts. The change in valuation of embedded derivatives associated with annuity contracts results from the incorporation of risk margins and the Company's own credit standing in their valuation. While the Company does not expect such changes in valuation to have a material impact on the Company's financial statements at January 1, 2008, the addition of risk margins and the Company's own credit spread in the valuation of embedded derivatives associated with annuity contracts may result in significant volatility in the Company's consolidated net income.
Fair Value Measurements
 
In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 159, ("SFAS 159"). SFAS 159 permits entities the option to measure most financial instruments and certain other items at fair value at specified election dates and to report related unrealized gains and losses in earnings. The fair value option is generally applied on an basis and is generally an irrevocable election. Effective January 1, 2008, the Company has elected the fair value option on fixed maturity securities backing certain pension products sold in Brazil. Previously, these fixed maturity securities were accounted for as available-for-sale securities in accordance with FAS 115. The Company's insurance joint venture in Japan also elected the fair value option for its single premium deferred annuities and supporting assets. These elections are not expected to have a material impact on the Company's retained earnings or equity as of January 1, 2008.
The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities
instrument-by-instrument
Table of Contents
 
 
 
In June 2007, the AICPA issued . Upon adoption of the Company must also adopt the provisions of FASB Staff Position No. FSP ("FSP which permanently exempts investment companies from applying the provisions of FIN No. 46(r), , and its December 2003 revision ("FIN 46(r)") to investments carried at fair value. provides guidance for determining whether an entity falls within the scope of the AICPA Audit and Accounting Guide and whether investment company accounting should be retained by a parent company upon consolidation of an investment company subsidiary or by an equity method investor in an investment company. In certain circumstances, precludes retention of specialized accounting for investment companies (i.e., fair value accounting), when similar direct investments exist in the consolidated group and are measured on a basis inconsistent with that applied to investment companies. Additionally, precludes retention of specialized accounting for investment companies if the reporting entity does not distinguish through documented policies the nature and type of investments to be held in the investment companies from those made in the consolidated group where other accounting guidance is being applied. In February 2008, the FASB issued FSP , which delays indefinitely the effective date of The Company is closely monitoring further FASB developments.
SOP 07-1,
Clarification of the Scope of the Audit and Accounting Guide Investment Companies and Accounting by Parent Companies and Equity Method Investors for Investments in Investment Companies
("SOP 07-1")
SOP 07-1,
FIN 46(r)-7,
Application of FASB Interpretation No. 46 to Investment Companies
FIN 46(r)-7"),
Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities  An Interpretation of Accounting Research Bulletin No. 51
SOP 07-1
Investment Companies
SOP 07-1
SOP 07-1
No. SOP 7-1-1,
Effective Date of AICPA Statement of Position
07-1
SOP 07-1.
 
In May 2007, the FASB issued FSP amends FIN No. 39, ("FIN 39"), to permit a reporting entity to offset fair value amounts recognized for the right to reclaim cash collateral (a receivable) or the obligation to return cash collateral (a payable) against fair value amounts recognized for derivative instruments executed with the same counterparty under the same master netting arrangement that have been offset in accordance with FIN 39. also amends FIN 39 for certain terminology modifications. applies to fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007. will be applied retrospectively, unless it is impracticable to do so. Upon adoption of the Company is permitted to change its accounting policy to offset or not offset fair value amounts recognized for derivative instruments under master netting arrangements. The adoption of will not have an impact on the Company's financial statements.
No. FIN 39-1,
Amendment of FASB Interpretation No. 39
("FSP 39-1").
FSP 39-1
Offsetting of Amounts Related to Certain Contracts
FSP 39-1
FSP 39-1
FSP 39-1
FSP 39-1,
FSP 39-1
 
Business Combinations
 
In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141 (revised 2007), ("SFAS 141(r)") and SFAS No. 160, ("SFAS 160") which are effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008. Under SFAS 141(r) and SFAS 160:
Business Combinations  A Replacement of FASB Statement No. 141
Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements  An Amendment of ARB No. 51
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
 
The pronouncements are effective for fiscal years beginning on or after December 15, 2008 and apply prospectively to business combinations. Presentation and disclosure requirements related to noncontrolling interests must be retrospectively applied. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of SFAS 141(r) on its accounting for future acquisitions and the impact of SFAS 160 on its consolidated financial statements.
 
Other
 
In February 2008, the FASB issued FSP provides guidance for evaluating whether to account for a transfer of a financial asset and repurchase financing as a single transaction or as two separate transactions. is effective prospectively for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2008. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of FSP on its consolidated financial statements.
No. FAS 140-3,
Accounting for Transfers of Financial Assets and Repurchase Financing Transactions
("FSP 140-3").
FSP 140-3
FSP 140-3
FAS 140-3
 
In January 2008, the FASB cleared SFAS 133 Implementation Issue E23, ("Issue E23"). Issue E23 amends SFAS 133 by permitting interest rate swaps to have a non-zero fair value at inception, as long as the difference between the transaction price (zero) and the fair value (exit price), as defined by SFAS 157, is solely attributable to a bid-ask spread. In addition, entities would not be precluded from assuming no ineffectiveness in a hedging relationship of interest rate risk involving an interest bearing asset or liability in situations where the hedged item is not recognized for accounting purposes until settlement date as long as the period between trade date and settlement date of the hedged item is consistent with generally established conventions in the marketplace. Issue E23 is effective for hedging relationships designated on or after January 1, 2008. The Company does not expect the adoption of Issue E23 to have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements.
Clarification of the Application of the Shortcut Method
 
In December 2007, the FASB ratified as final the consensus on EITF Issue addresses whether the existence of a buy-sell arrangement would preclude partial sales treatment when real estate is sold to a jointly owned entity. The consensus concludes that the existence of a buy-sell clause does not necessarily preclude partial sale treatment under current guidance. applies prospectively to new arrangements entered into and assessments on existing transactions performed in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008. The Company does not expect the adoption of to have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements.
No. 07-6,
Accounting for the Sale of Real Estate When the Agreement Includes a Buy-Sell Clause
("EITF 07-6").
EITF 07-6
EITF 07-6
EITF 07-6
 
In November 2007, the SEC issued SAB No. 109, ("SAB 109"), which amends SAB No. 105, . SAB 109 provides guidance on (i) incorporating expected net future cash flows when related to the associated servicing of a loan when measuring fair value; and (ii) broadening the SEC staff's view that internally-developed intangible assets should not be recorded as part of the fair value of a derivative loan commitment or to written loan commitments that are accounted for at fair value through earnings. Internally-developed intangible assets are not considered a component of the related instruments. SAB 109 is effective for derivative loan commitments issued or modified in fiscal quarters beginning after December 15, 2007. The adoption of SAB 109 will not have an impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements.
Written Loan Commitments Recorded at Fair Value through Earnings
Application of Accounting Principles to Loan Commitments
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
Reinsurance Group of America, Incorporated
 
On September 12, 2008, the Company completed a tax-free split-off of its majority-owned subsidiary, RGA. The Company and RGA entered into a recapitalization and distribution agreement, pursuant to which the Company agreed to divest substantially all of its 52% interest in RGA to the Company's stockholders. The split-off was effected through the following:
 
 
As a result of completion of the recapitalization and exchange offer, the Company received from MetLife stockholders 23,093,689 shares of the Company's common stock with a fair market value of $1,318 million and, in exchange, delivered 29,243,539 shares of RGA's Class B common stock with a net book value of $1,716 million. The resulting loss on disposition, inclusive of transaction costs of $60 million, was $458 million. The 3,000,000 shares of RGA Class A common stock retained by the Company are marketable equity securities which do not constitute significant continuing involvement in the operations of RGA; accordingly, they have been classified within equity securities in the consolidated financial statements of the Company at a cost basis of $157 million which is equivalent to the net book value of the shares. The cost basis will be adjusted to fair value at each subsequent reporting date. The Company has agreed to dispose of the remaining shares of RGA within the next five years. In connection with the Company's agreement to dispose of the remaining shares, the Company also recognized, in its provision for income tax on continuing operations, a deferred tax liability of $16 million which represents the difference between the book and taxable basis of the remaining investment in RGA.
 
The impact of the disposition of the Company's investment in RGA is reflected in the Company's interim condensed consolidated financial statements for the first time in the three months and nine months ended September 30, 2008. These consolidated financial statements have been updated to reflect the results of RGA as discontinued operations. The information presented herein has also been updated to reflect the sale of certain real estate operations as discontinued operations. The disposition of RGA results in the elimination of the Company's Reinsurance segment. The Reinsurance segment was comprised of the results of RGA, which at disposition became discontinued operations of Corporate & Other, and the interest on economic capital, which has been reclassified to the continuing operations of Corporate & Other. See Note 23 for reclassifications related to discontinued operations and Note 22 for segment information.
 
Travelers
 
On July 1, 2005, the Company completed the acquisition of Travelers for $12.1 billion. The results of Travelers' operations were included in the Company's financial statements beginning July 1, 2005. As a result of the acquisition, management of the Company increased significantly the size and scale of the Company's core insurance and annuity products and expanded the Company's presence in both the retirement & savings' domestic
Table of Contents
 
 
 
and international markets. The distribution agreements executed with Citigroup as part of the acquisition provide the Company with one of the broadest distribution networks in the industry.
 
The initial consideration paid in 2005 by the Company for the acquisition consisted of $10.9 billion in cash and 22,436,617 shares of the Company's common stock with a market value of $1.0 billion to Citigroup and $100 million in other transaction costs. The Company revised the purchase price as a result of the finalization by both parties of their review of the June 30, 2005 financial statements and final resolution as to the interpretation of the provisions of the acquisition agreement which resulted in a payment of additional consideration of $115 million by the Company to Citigroup in 2006. In addition to cash on-hand, the purchase price was financed through the issuance of common stock as described previously, debt securities as described in Note 10, common equity units as described in Note 13 and preferred stock as described in Note 18.
 
The acquisition was accounted for using the purchase method of accounting, which requires that the assets and liabilities of Travelers be measured at their fair values. The net fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed totaled $7.8 billion, resulting in goodwill of $4.3 billion, of which $1.6 billion is deductible for income tax purposes. Further information on goodwill is described in Note 6. See Note 5 for the VOBA acquired as part of the acquisition and Note 7 for the value of distribution agreements ("VODA") and the value of customer relationships acquired ("VOCRA").
 
As part of the integration of Travelers' operations, management approved and initiated plans to reduce approximately 1,000 domestic and international Travelers positions, which was completed in December 2006. MetLife initially recorded restructuring costs, including severance, relocation and outplacement services of Travelers' employees, as liabilities assumed in the purchase business combination of $49 million. For the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, the liability for restructuring costs was reduced by $4 million and $1 million, respectively, due to a reduction in the estimate of severance benefits to be paid to Travelers employees. The restructuring costs associated with the Travelers acquisition were as follows:
 
 
Other Acquisitions and Dispositions
 
On June 28, 2007, the Company acquired the remaining 50% interest in a joint venture in Hong Kong, MetLife Fubon Limited ("MetLife Fubon"), for $56 million in cash, resulting in MetLife Fubon becoming a consolidated subsidiary of the Company. The transaction was treated as a step acquisition, and at June 30, 2007, total assets and liabilities of MetLife Fubon of $839 million and $735 million, respectively, were included in the Company's consolidated balance sheet. The Company's investment for the initial 50% interest in MetLife Fubon was $48 million. The Company used the equity method of accounting for such investment in MetLife Fubon. The Company's share of the joint venture's results for the six months ended June 30, 2007, was a loss of $3 million. The fair value of the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed in the step acquisition at June 30, 2007, was $427 million and $371 million, respectively. No additional goodwill was recorded as a part of the step acquisition. As a result of this acquisition, additional VOBA and VODA of $45 million and $5 million, respectively, were recorded and both have a weighted average amortization period of 16 years. Further information on VOBA and VODA is described in Note 5 and Note 7, respectively.
Table of Contents
 
 
 
On June 1, 2007, the Company completed the sale of its Bermuda insurance subsidiary, MetLife International Insurance, Ltd. ("MLII"), to a third party for $33 million in cash consideration, resulting in a gain upon disposal of $3 million, net of income tax. The net assets of MLII at disposal were $27 million. A liability of $1 million was recorded with respect to a guarantee provided in connection with this disposition. Further information on guarantees is described in Note 16.
 
On September 1, 2005, the Company completed the acquisition of CitiStreet Associates, a division of CitiStreet LLC, which is primarily involved in the distribution of annuity products and retirement plans to the education, healthcare, and not-for-profit markets, for $56 million, of which $2 million was allocated to goodwill and $54 million to other identifiable intangibles, specifically the VOCRA, which have a weighted average amortization period of 16 years. CitiStreet Associates was integrated with MetLife Resources, a focused distribution channel of MetLife, which is dedicated to provide retirement plans and financial services to the same markets. Further information on goodwill and VOCRA is described in Note 6 and Note 7, respectively.
 
See Note 23 for information on the disposition of the annuities and pension businesses of MetLife Insurance Limited ("MetLife Australia"), P.T. Sejahtera ("MetLife Indonesia") and SSRM Holdings, Inc. ("SSRM").
 
See Note 25 for information on the Company's acquisitions subsequent to December 31, 2007.
 
 
Fixed Maturity and Equity Securities Available-for-Sale
 
The following tables present the cost or amortized cost, gross unrealized gain and loss, and estimated fair value of the Company's fixed maturity and equity securities, the percentage that each sector represents by the total fixed maturity securities holdings and by the total equity securities holdings at:
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
The Company held foreign currency derivatives with notional amounts of $9.2 billion and $8.9 billion to hedge the exchange rate risk associated with foreign denominated fixed maturity securities at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively.
 
The Company is not exposed to any significant concentrations of credit risk in its equity securities portfolio. The Company is exposed to concentrations of credit risk related to U.S. Treasury securities and obligations of U.S. government corporations and agencies. Additionally, at December 31, 2007 and 2006, the Company had exposure to fixed maturity securities backed by sub-prime mortgages with estimated fair values of $2.0 billion and $2.7 billion, respectively, and unrealized losses of $198 million and $5 million, respectively. These securities are classified within asset-backed securities in the immediately preceding table. At December 31, 2007, 34% have been guaranteed by financial guarantors, of which 57% was guaranteed by financial guarantors who remain Aaa rated in 2008. Overall, at December 31, 2007, $6.0 billion of the estimated fair value of the Company's fixed maturity securities were credit enhanced by financial guarantors of which $2.4 billion, $2.4 billion and $1.2 billion at December 31, 2007, are included within state and political subdivisions, corporate securities and asset-backed securities, respectively, and 79% were guaranteed by financial guarantors who remain Aaa rated in 2008.
 
The Company held fixed maturity securities at estimated fair values that were below investment grade or not rated by an independent rating agency that totaled $17.4 billion and $16.8 billion at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. These securities had net unrealized gains (losses) of ($101) million and $635 million at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Non-income producing fixed maturity securities were $13 million and $16 million at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Net unrealized gains associated with non-income producing fixed maturity securities were $12 million and $4 million at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively.
Table of Contents
 
 
 
The amortized cost and estimated fair value of fixed maturity securities, by contractual maturity date (excluding scheduled sinking funds), are as follows:
 
 
Fixed maturity securities not due at a single maturity date have been included in the above table in the year of final contractual maturity. Actual maturities may differ from contractual maturities due to the exercise of prepayment options.
 
Sales or disposals of fixed maturity and equity securities classified as available-for-sale are as follows:
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
Unrealized Loss for Fixed Maturity and Equity Securities Available-for-Sale
 
The following tables present the estimated fair value and gross unrealized loss of the Company's fixed maturity (aggregated by sector) and equity securities in an unrealized loss position, aggregated by length of time that the securities have been in a continuous unrealized loss position at:
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
Aging of Gross Unrealized Loss for Fixed Maturity and Equity Securities Available-for-Sale
 
The following tables present the cost or amortized cost, gross unrealized loss and number of securities for fixed maturity and equity securities, where the estimated fair value had declined and remained below cost or amortized cost by less than 20%, or 20% or more at:
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
At December 31, 2007 and 2006, $4.2 billion and $2.2 billion, respectively, of unrealized losses related to securities with an unrealized loss position of less than 20% of cost or amortized cost, which represented 4% and 2%, respectively, of the cost or amortized cost of such securities.
 
At December 31, 2007, $537 million of unrealized losses related to securities with an unrealized loss position of 20% or more of cost or amortized cost, which represented 29% of the cost or amortized cost of such securities. Of such unrealized losses of $537 million, $518 million related to securities that were in an unrealized loss position for a period of less than six months. At December 31, 2006, $24 million of unrealized losses related to securities with an unrealized loss position of 20% or more of cost or amortized cost, which represented 30% of the cost or amortized cost of such securities. Of such unrealized losses of $24 million, $12 million related to securities that were in an unrealized loss position for a period of less than six months.
 
The Company held 30 fixed maturity and equity securities, each with a gross unrealized loss at December 31, 2007 of greater than $10 million. These securities represented 10%, or $459 million in the aggregate, of the gross unrealized loss on fixed maturity and equity securities. The Company held eight fixed maturity and equity securities, each with a gross unrealized loss at December 31, 2006 of greater than $10 million. These securities represented 7%, or $169 million in the aggregate, of the gross unrealized loss on fixed maturity and equity securities.
Table of Contents
 
 
 
At December 31, 2007 and 2006, the Company had $4.7 billion and $2.3 billion, respectively, of gross unrealized losses related to its fixed maturity and equity securities. These securities are concentrated, calculated as a percentage of gross unrealized loss, as follows:
 
 
As described more fully in Note 1, the Company performs a regular evaluation, on a basis, of its investment holdings in accordance with its impairment policy in order to evaluate whether such securities are other-than-temporarily impaired. One of the criteria which the Company considers in its other-than-temporary impairment analysis is its intent and ability to hold securities for a period of time sufficient to allow for the recovery of their value to an amount equal to or greater than cost or amortized cost. The Company's intent and ability to hold securities considers broad portfolio management objectives such as asset/liability duration management, issuer and industry segment exposures, interest rate views and the overall total return focus. In following these portfolio management objectives, changes in facts and circumstances that were present in past reporting periods may trigger a decision to sell securities that were held in prior reporting periods. Decisions to sell are based on current conditions or the Company's need to shift the portfolio to maintain its portfolio management objectives including liquidity needs or duration targets on asset/liability managed portfolios. The Company attempts to anticipate these types of changes and if a sale decision has been made on an impaired security and that security is not expected to recover prior to the expected time of sale, the security will be deemed other-than-temporarily impaired in the period that the sale decision was made and an other-than-temporary impairment loss will be recognized.
security-by-security
 
Based upon the Company's current evaluation of the securities in accordance with its impairment policy, the cause of the decline being principally attributable to the general rise in interest rates during the holding period, and the Company's current intent and ability to hold the fixed maturity and equity securities with unrealized losses for a period of time sufficient for them to recover, the Company has concluded that the aforementioned securities are not other-than-temporarily impaired.
Table of Contents
 
 
 
Securities Lending
 
The Company participates in a securities lending program whereby blocks of securities, which are included in fixed maturity and equity securities, are loaned to third parties, primarily major brokerage firms. The Company requires a minimum of 102% of the fair value of the loaned securities to be separately maintained as collateral for the loans. Securities with a cost or amortized cost of $41.1 billion and $43.3 billion and an estimated fair value of $42.1 billion and $44.1 billion were on loan under the program at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Securities loaned under such transactions may be sold or repledged by the transferee. The Company was liable for cash collateral under its control of $43.3 billion and $45.4 billion at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Security collateral of $40 million and $100 million on deposit from customers in connection with the securities lending transactions at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively, may not be sold or repledged and is not reflected in the consolidated financial statements.
 
Assets on Deposit and Held in Trust and Assets Pledged as Collateral
 
The Company had investment assets on deposit with regulatory agencies with a fair market value of $1.8 billion and $1.3 billion at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively, consisting primarily of fixed maturity and equity securities. Company securities held in trust to satisfy collateral requirements had a cost or amortized cost of $6.0 billion and $1.2 billion at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively, consisting primarily of fixed maturity and equity securities.
 
Certain of the Company's fixed maturity securities are pledged as collateral for various derivative transactions as described in Note 4. Additionally, the Company has pledged certain of its fixed maturity securities in support of its debt and funding agreements as described in Notes 10 and 7, respectively.
 
Mortgage and Consumer Loans
 
Mortgage and consumer loans are categorized as follows:
 
 
Mortgage loans are collateralized by properties primarily located in the United States. At December 31, 2007, 21%, 7% and 6% of the value of the Company's mortgage and consumer loans were located in California, Texas and New York, respectively. Generally, the Company, as the lender, only loans up to 75% of the purchase price of the underlying real estate.
 
Certain of the Company's real estate joint ventures have mortgage loans with the Company. The carrying values of such mortgages were $373 million and $372 million at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively.
Table of Contents
 
 
 
Information regarding loan valuation allowances for mortgage and consumer loans is as follows:
 
 
A portion of the Company's mortgage and consumer loans was impaired and consisted of the following:
 
 
The average investment on impaired loans was $453 million, $202 million and $187 million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Interest income on impaired loans was $38 million, $2 million and $12 million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.
 
The investment in restructured loans was $2 million and $9 million at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Interest income of less than $1 million, $1 million and $2 million was recognized on restructured loans for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Gross interest income that would have been recorded in accordance with the original terms of such loans amounted to less than $1 million, $1 million and $3 million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.
 
Mortgage and consumer loans with scheduled payments of 90 days or more past due on which interest is still accruing, had an amortized cost of $4 million and $15 million at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Mortgage and consumer loans on which interest is no longer accrued had an amortized cost of $28 million and $36 million at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Mortgage and consumer loans in foreclosure had an amortized cost of $12 million and $35 million at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively.
Table of Contents
 
 
 
Real Estate Holdings
 
Real estate holdings consisted of the following:
 
 
Related depreciation expense on real estate was $130 million, $131 million and $135 million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. These amounts include $12 million, $36 million and $61 million of depreciation expense related to discontinued operations for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.
 
There were no impairments recognized on real estate held-for-sale for the year ended December 31, 2007. Impairment losses recognized on real estate held-for-sale were $8 million and $5 million for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The carrying value of non-income producing real estate was $12 million and $8 million at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The Company owned real estate acquired in satisfaction of debt of $3 million at both December 31, 2007 and 2006.
 
Real estate holdings were categorized as follows:
 
 
The Company's real estate holdings are primarily located in the United States. At December 31, 2007, 22%, 11%, 10% and 9% of the Company's real estate holdings were located in California, New York, Florida and Texas, respectively.
Table of Contents
 
 
 
Leveraged Leases
 
Investment in leveraged leases, included in other invested assets, consisted of the following:
 
 
The Company's deferred income tax liability related to leveraged leases was $1.0 billion and $670 million at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The rental receivables set forth above are generally due in periodic installments. The payment periods range from one to 15 years, but in certain circumstances are as long as 30 years.
 
The components of net income from investment in leveraged leases are as follows:
 
 
Other Limited Partnership Interests
 
The carrying value of other limited partnership interests (which primarily represent ownership interests in pooled investment funds that make private equity investments in companies in the United States and overseas) was $6.2 billion and $4.8 billion at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Included within other limited partnership interests at December 31, 2007 and 2006 are $1.6 billion and $1.2 billion, respectively, of hedge funds. For the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, net investment income from other limited partnership interests included $89 million, $98 million and $24 million respectively, related to hedge funds.
Table of Contents
 
 
 
Net Investment Income
 
The components of net investment income are as follows:
 
 
Net Investment Gains (Losses)
 
The components of net investment gains (losses) are as follows:
 
 
The Company periodically disposes of fixed maturity and equity securities at a loss. Generally, such losses are insignificant in amount or in relation to the cost basis of the investment, are attributable to declines in fair value occurring in the period of the disposition or are as a result of management's decision to sell securities based on current conditions or the Company's need to shift the portfolio to maintain its portfolio management objectives.
 
Losses from fixed maturity and equity securities deemed other-than-temporarily impaired, included within net investment gains (losses), were $98 million, $79 million and $62 million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.
Table of Contents
 
 
 
Net Unrealized Investment Gains (Losses)
 
The components of net unrealized investment gains (losses), included in accumulated other comprehensive income, are as follows:
 
 
The changes in net unrealized investment gains (losses) are as follows:
 
 
Trading Securities
 
The Company has a trading securities portfolio to support investment strategies that involve the active and frequent purchase and sale of securities, the execution of short sale agreements and asset and liability matching strategies for certain insurance products. Trading securities and short sale agreement liabilities are recorded at fair value with subsequent changes in fair value recognized in net investment income related to fixed maturity securities.
Table of Contents
 
 
 
At December 31, 2007 and 2006, trading securities were $779 million and $759 million, respectively, and liabilities associated with the short sale agreements in the trading securities portfolio, which were included in other liabilities, were $107 million and $387 million, respectively. The Company had pledged $407 million and $614 million of its assets, primarily consisting of trading securities, as collateral to secure the liabilities associated with the short sale agreements in the trading securities portfolio at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively.
 
During the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, interest and dividends earned on trading securities in addition to the net realized and unrealized gains (losses) recognized on the trading securities and the related short sale agreement liabilities included within net investment income totaled $50 million, $71 million and $14 million, respectively. Included within unrealized gains (losses) on such trading securities and short sale agreement liabilities, are changes in fair value of ($4) million, $26 million and less than $1 million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.
 
As part of the acquisition of Travelers on July 1, 2005, the Company acquired Travelers' investment in Tribeca Citigroup Investments Ltd. ("Tribeca"). Tribeca was a feeder fund investment structure whereby the feeder fund invests substantially all of its assets in the master fund, Tribeca Global Convertible Instruments Ltd. The primary investment objective of the master fund is to achieve enhanced risk-adjusted return by investing in domestic and foreign equities and equity-related securities utilizing such strategies as convertible securities arbitrage. At December 31, 2005, MetLife was the majority owner of the feeder fund and consolidated the fund within its consolidated financial statements. Net investment income related to the trading activities of Tribeca, which included interest and dividends earned on trading securities in addition to the net realized and unrealized gains (losses), was $12 million and $6 million for the six months ended June 30, 2006 and the year ended December 31, 2005, respectively.
 
During the second quarter of 2006, MetLife's ownership interests in Tribeca declined to a position whereby Tribeca is no longer consolidated and, as of June 30, 2006, was accounted for under the equity method of accounting. The equity method investment at December 31, 2006 of $82 million was included in other limited partnership interests. Net investment income related to the Company's equity method investment in Tribeca was $9 million for the six months ended December 31, 2006.
 
Variable Interest Entities
 
The following table presents the total assets of and maximum exposure to loss relating to VIEs for which the Company has concluded that: (i) it is the primary beneficiary and which are consolidated in the Company's consolidated financial statements at December 31, 2007; and (ii) it holds significant variable interests but it is not the primary beneficiary and which have not been consolidated:
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
 
 
Types of Derivative Financial Instruments
 
The following table presents the notional amount and current market or fair value of derivative financial instruments held at:
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
The above table does not include notional amounts for equity futures, equity variance swaps and equity options. At December 31, 2007 and 2006, the Company owned 4,498 and 2,749 equity futures, respectively. Fair values of equity futures are included in financial futures in the preceding table. At December 31, 2007 and 2006, the Company owned 695,485 and 225,000 equity variance swaps, respectively. Fair values of equity variance swaps are included in financial forwards in the preceding table. At December 31, 2007 and 2006, the Company owned 77,374,937 and 74,864,483 equity options, respectively. Fair values of equity options are included in options in the preceding table.
 
The following table presents the notional amount of derivative financial instruments by maturity at December 31, 2007:
 
 
Interest rate swaps are used by the Company primarily to reduce market risks from changes in interest rates and to alter interest rate exposure arising from mismatches between assets and liabilities (duration mismatches). In an interest rate swap, the Company agrees with another party to exchange, at specified intervals, the difference between fixed rate and floating rate interest amounts as calculated by reference to an agreed notional principal amount. These transactions are entered into pursuant to master agreements that provide for a single net payment to be made by the counterparty at each due date.
 
The Company also enters into basis swaps to better match the cash flows from assets and related liabilities. In a basis swap, both legs of the swap are floating with each based on a different index. Generally, no cash is exchanged at the outset of the contract and no principal payments are made by either party. A single net payment is usually made by one counterparty at each due date. Basis swaps are included in interest rate swaps in the preceding table.
 
Interest rate caps and floors are used by the Company primarily to protect its floating rate liabilities against rises in interest rates above a specified level, and against interest rate exposure arising from mismatches between assets and liabilities (duration mismatches), as well as to protect its minimum rate guarantee liabilities against declines in interest rates below a specified level, respectively.
 
In exchange-traded interest rate (Treasury and swap) and equity futures transactions, the Company agrees to purchase or sell a specified number of contracts, the value of which is determined by the different classes of interest rate and equity securities, and to post variation margin on a daily basis in an amount equal to the difference in the
Table of Contents
 
 
 
daily market values of those contracts. The Company enters into exchange-traded futures with regulated futures commission merchants that are members of the exchange.
 
Exchange-traded interest rate (Treasury and swap) futures are used primarily to hedge mismatches between the duration of assets in a portfolio and the duration of liabilities supported by those assets, to hedge against changes in value of securities the Company owns or anticipates acquiring, and to hedge against changes in interest rates on anticipated liability issuances by replicating Treasury or swap curve performance. The value of interest rate futures is substantially impacted by changes in interest rates and they can be used to modify or hedge existing interest rate risk.
 
Exchange-traded equity futures are used primarily to hedge liabilities embedded in certain variable annuity products offered by the Company.
 
Foreign currency derivatives, including foreign currency swaps, foreign currency forwards and currency option contracts, are used by the Company to reduce the risk from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates associated with its assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies. The Company also uses foreign currency forwards and swaps to hedge the foreign currency risk associated with certain of its net investments in foreign operations.
 
In a foreign currency swap transaction, the Company agrees with another party to exchange, at specified intervals, the difference between one currency and another at a forward exchange rate calculated by reference to an agreed upon principal amount. The principal amount of each currency is exchanged at the inception and termination of the currency swap by each party.
 
In a foreign currency forward transaction, the Company agrees with another party to deliver a specified amount of an identified currency at a specified future date. The price is agreed upon at the time of the contract and payment for such a contract is made in a different currency at the specified future date.
 
The Company enters into currency option contracts that give it the right, but not the obligation, to sell the foreign currency amount in exchange for a functional currency amount within a limited time at a contracted price. The contracts may also be net settled in cash, based on differentials in the foreign exchange rate and the strike price. Currency option contracts are included in options in the preceding table.
 
Swaptions are used by the Company to hedge interest rate risk associated with the Company's long-term liabilities, as well as to sell, or monetize, embedded call options in its fixed rate liabilities. A swaption is an option to enter into a swap with an effective date equal to the exercise date of the embedded call and a maturity date equal to the maturity date of the underlying liability. The Company receives a premium for entering into the swaption. Swaptions are included in options in the preceding table.
 
Equity index options are used by the Company primarily to hedge minimum guarantees embedded in certain variable annuity products offered by the Company. To hedge against adverse changes in equity indices, the Company enters into contracts to sell the equity index within a limited time at a contracted price. The contracts will be net settled in cash based on differentials in the indices at the time of exercise and the strike price. Equity index options are included in options in the preceding table.
 
The Company enters into financial forwards to buy and sell securities. The price is agreed upon at the time of the contract and payment for such a contract is made at a specified future date.
 
Equity variance swaps are used by the Company primarily to hedge minimum guarantees embedded in certain variable annuity products offered by the Company. In an equity variance swap, the Company agrees with another party to exchange amounts in the future, based on changes in equity volatility over a defined period. Equity variance swaps are included in financial forwards in the preceding table.
 
Swap spread locks are used by the Company to hedge invested assets on an economic basis against the risk of changes in credit spreads. Swap spread locks are forward starting swaps where the Company agrees to pay a coupon
Table of Contents
 
 
 
based on a predetermined reference swap spread in exchange for receiving a coupon based on a floating rate. The Company has the option to cash settle with the counterparty in lieu of maintaining the swap after the effective date. Swap spread locks are included in financial forwards in the preceding table.
 
Certain credit default swaps are used by the Company to hedge against credit-related changes in the value of its investments and to diversify its credit risk exposure in certain portfolios. In a credit default swap transaction, the Company agrees with another party, at specified intervals, to pay a premium to insure credit risk. If a credit event, as defined by the contract, occurs, generally the contract will require the swap to be settled gross by the delivery of par quantities of the referenced investment equal to the specified swap notional in exchange for the payment of cash amounts by the counterparty equal to the par value of the investment surrendered.
 
Credit default swaps are also used to synthetically create investments that are either more expensive to acquire or otherwise unavailable in the cash markets. These transactions are a combination of a derivative and a cash instrument such as a U.S. Treasury or Agency security. The Company also enters into certain credit default swaps held in relation to trading portfolios.
 
A synthetic guaranteed interest contract ("GIC") is a contract that simulates the performance of a traditional GIC through the use of financial instruments. Under a synthetic GIC, the policyholder owns the underlying assets. The Company guarantees a rate return on those assets for a premium.
 
Total rate of return swaps ("TRRs") are swaps whereby the Company agrees with another party to exchange, at specified intervals, the difference between the economic risk and reward of an asset or a market index and LIBOR, calculated by reference to an agreed notional principal amount. No cash is exchanged at the outset of the contract. Cash is paid and received over the life of the contract based on the terms of the swap. These transactions are entered into pursuant to master agreements that provide for a single net payment to be made by the counterparty at each due date. TRRs can be used as hedges or to synthetically create investments and are included in the other classification in the preceding table.
 
Hedging
 
The following table presents the notional amount and fair value of derivatives by type of hedge designation at:
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
The following table presents the settlement payments recorded in income for the:
 
 
Fair Value Hedges
 
The Company designates and accounts for the following as fair value hedges when they have met the requirements of SFAS 133: (i) interest rate swaps to convert fixed rate investments to floating rate investments; and (ii) foreign currency swaps to hedge the foreign currency fair value exposure of foreign currency denominated investments and liabilities.
 
The Company recognized net investment gains (losses) representing the ineffective portion of all fair value hedges as follows:
 
 
All components of each derivative's gain or loss were included in the assessment of hedge effectiveness. There were no instances in which the Company discontinued fair value hedge accounting due to a hedged firm commitment no longer qualifying as a fair value hedge.
 
Cash Flow Hedges
 
The Company designates and accounts for the following as cash flow hedges when they have met the requirements of SFAS 133: (i) interest rate swaps to convert floating rate investments to fixed rate investments; (ii) interest rate swaps to convert floating rate liabilities to fixed rate liabilities; (iii) foreign currency swaps to hedge the foreign currency cash flow exposure of foreign currency denominated investments and liabilities; and (iv) financial forwards to buy and sell securities.
 
For the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, the Company did not recognize any net investment gains (losses) which represented the ineffective portion of all cash flow hedges. For the year ended December 31, 2005, the Company recognized net investment gains (losses) of ($25) million which represented the ineffective portion of all cash flow hedges. All components of each derivative's gain or loss were included in the assessment of hedge effectiveness. In certain instances, the Company discontinued cash flow hedge accounting because the forecasted transactions did not occur on the anticipated date or in the additional time period permitted by SFAS 133. The net amounts reclassified into net investment losses for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 related to such discontinued cash flow hedges were $3 million, $3 million and $42 million, respectively. There were no
Table of Contents
 
 
 
hedged forecasted transactions, other than the receipt or payment of variable interest payments for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005.
 
The following table presents the components of other comprehensive income (loss), before income tax, related to cash flow hedges:
 
 
At December 31, 2007, $23 million of the deferred net loss on derivatives accumulated in other comprehensive income (loss) is expected to be reclassified to earnings during the year ending December 31, 2008.
 
Hedges of Net Investments in Foreign Operations
 
The Company uses forward exchange contracts, foreign currency swaps, options and non-derivative financial instruments to hedge portions of its net investments in foreign operations against adverse movements in exchange rates. The Company measures ineffectiveness on the forward exchange contracts based upon the change in forward rates. There was no ineffectiveness recorded for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005.
 
The Company's consolidated statements of stockholders' equity for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 include gains (losses) of ($180) million, ($17) million and ($115) million, respectively, related to foreign currency contracts and non-derivative financial instruments used to hedge its net investments in foreign operations. At December 31, 2007 and 2006, the cumulative foreign currency translation loss recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income related to these hedges was $369 million and $189 million, respectively. When net investments in foreign operations are sold or substantially liquidated, the amounts in accumulated other comprehensive income are reclassified to the consolidated statements of income, while a pro rata portion will be reclassified upon partial sale of the net investments in foreign operations.
 
Non-qualifying Derivatives and Derivatives for Purposes Other Than Hedging
 
The Company enters into the following derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting under SFAS 133 or for purposes other than hedging: (i) interest rate swaps, purchased caps and floors, and interest rate futures to economically hedge its exposure to interest rate volatility; (ii) foreign currency forwards, swaps and option contracts to economically hedge its exposure to adverse movements in exchange rates; (iii) swaptions to sell embedded call options in fixed rate liabilities; (iv) credit default swaps to economically hedge exposure to adverse movements in credit; (v) equity futures, equity index options, interest rate futures and equity variance swaps to economically hedge liabilities embedded in certain variable annuity products; (vi) swap spread locks to economically hedge invested assets against the risk of changes in credit spreads; (vii) financial forwards to buy and sell securities; (viii) synthetic guaranteed interest contracts; (ix) credit default swaps and TRRs to synthetically create investments; (x) basis swaps to better match the cash flows of assets and related liabilities; (xi) credit default swaps held in relation to trading portfolios; and (xii) swaptions to hedge interest rate risk.
Table of Contents
 
 
 
The following table presents changes in fair value related to derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting:
 
 
 
 
Embedded Derivatives
 
The Company has certain embedded derivatives that are required to be separated from their host contracts and accounted for as derivatives. These host contracts include guaranteed minimum withdrawal contracts, guaranteed minimum accumulation contracts and modified coinsurance contracts.
 
The following table presents the fair value of the Company's embedded derivatives at:
 
 
The following table presents changes in fair value related to embedded derivatives:
 
 
Credit Risk
 
The Company may be exposed to credit-related losses in the event of nonperformance by counterparties to derivative financial instruments. Generally, the current credit exposure of the Company's derivative contracts is limited to the fair value at the reporting date. The credit exposure of the Company's derivative transactions is represented by the fair value of contracts with a net positive fair value at the reporting date.
 
The Company manages its credit risk related to over-the-counter derivatives by entering into transactions with creditworthy counterparties, maintaining collateral arrangements and through the use of master agreements that provide for a single net payment to be made by one counterparty to another at each due date and upon termination. Because exchange traded futures are effected through regulated exchanges, and positions are marked to market on a daily basis, the Company has minimal exposure to credit-related losses in the event of nonperformance by counterparties to such derivative instruments.
 
The Company enters into various collateral arrangements, which require both the pledging and accepting of collateral in connection with its derivative instruments. As of December 31, 2007 and 2006, the Company was obligated to return cash collateral under its control of $833 million and $428 million, respectively. This unrestricted cash collateral is included in cash and cash equivalents and the obligation to return it is included in payables for collateral under securities loaned and other transactions in the consolidated balance sheets. As of December 31,
Table of Contents
 
 
 
2007 and 2006, the Company had also accepted collateral consisting of various securities with a fair market value of $678 million and $453 million, respectively, which are held in separate custodial accounts. The Company is permitted by contract to sell or repledge this collateral, but as of December 31, 2007 and 2006, none of the collateral had been sold or repledged.
 
As of December 31, 2007 and 2006, the Company provided collateral of $162 million and $80 million, respectively, which is included in fixed maturity securities in the consolidated balance sheets. In addition, the Company has exchange traded futures, which require the pledging of collateral. As of December 31, 2007 and 2006, the Company pledged collateral of $167 million and $105 million, respectively, which is included in fixed maturity securities. The counterparties are permitted by contract to sell or repledge this collateral.
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
Information regarding DAC and VOBA is as follows:
 
 
The estimated future amortization expense allocated to other expenses for the next five years for VOBA is $449 million in 2008, $399 million in 2009, $355 million in 2010, $316 million in 2011, and $266 million in 2012.
Table of Contents
 
 
 
Amortization of VOBA and DAC is related to (i) investment gains and losses and the impact of such gains and losses on the amount of the amortization; (ii) unrealized investment gains and losses to provide information regarding the amount that would have been amortized if such gains and losses had been recognized; and (iii) other expenses to provide amounts related to the gross margins or profits originating from transactions other than investment gains and losses.
 
 
Goodwill is the excess of cost over the fair value of net assets acquired. Information regarding goodwill is as follows:
 
 
See Note 2 for a description of acquisitions and dispositions.
 
 
Insurance Liabilities
 
Insurance liabilities are as follows:
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
Value of Distribution Agreements and Customer Relationships Acquired
 
Information regarding the VODA and VOCRA, which are reported in other assets, is as follows:
 
 
The estimated future amortization expense allocated to other expenses for the next five years for VODA and VOCRA is $23 million in 2008, $28 million in 2009, $34 million in 2010, $37 million in 2011 and $42 million in 2012. See Note 2 for a description of acquisitions and dispositions.
 
Sales Inducements
 
Information regarding deferred sales inducements, which are reported in other assets, is as follows:
 
 
Separate Accounts
 
Separate account assets and liabilities include two categories of account types: pass-through separate accounts totaling $141.7 billion and $127.8 billion at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively, for which the policyholder assumes all investment risk, and separate accounts with a minimum return or account value for which the Company contractually guarantees either a minimum return or account value to the policyholder which totaled $18.4 billion and $16.5 billion at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The latter category consisted primarily of Met Managed GICs and participating close-out contracts. The average interest rate credited on these contracts was 4.73% and 4.63% at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively.
 
Fees charged to the separate accounts by the Company (including mortality charges, policy administration fees and surrender charges) are reflected in the Company's revenues as universal life and investment-type product policy fees and totaled $2.8 billion, $2.4 billion and $1.7 billion for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.
Table of Contents
 
 
 
The Company's proportional interest in separate accounts is included in the consolidated balance sheets as follows:
 
 
For the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, there were no investment gains (losses) on transfers of assets from the general account to the separate accounts.
 
Obligations Under Guaranteed Interest Contract Program
 
The Company issues fixed and floating rate obligations under its GIC program which are denominated in either U.S. dollars or foreign currencies. During the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, the Company issued $5.2 billion, $5.2 billion and $4.0 billion, respectively, and repaid $4.3 billion, $2.6 billion and $1.0 billion, respectively, of GICs under this program. At December 31, 2007 and 2006, GICs outstanding, which are included in policyholder account balances, were $24.2 billion and $21.4 billion, respectively. During the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, interest credited on the contracts, which are included in interest credited to policyholder account balances, was $1.1 billion, $834 million and $463 million, respectively.
 
Obligations Under Funding Agreements
 
MetLife Insurance Company of Connecticut ("MICC") is a member of the Federal Home Loan Bank of Boston (the "FHLB of Boston") and holds $70 million of common stock of the FHLB of Boston at both December 31, 2007 and 2006, which is included in equity securities. MICC has also entered into funding agreements with the FHLB of Boston whereby MICC has issued such funding agreements in exchange for cash and for which the FHLB of Boston has been granted a blanket lien on certain MICC assets, including residential mortgage-backed securities, to collateralize MICC's obligations under the funding agreements. MICC maintains control over these pledged assets, and may use, commingle, encumber or dispose of any portion of the collateral as long as there is no event of default and the remaining qualified collateral is sufficient to satisfy the collateral maintenance level. Upon any event of default by MICC, the FHLB of Boston's recovery on the collateral is limited to the amount of MICC's liability to the FHLB of Boston. The amount of the Company's liability for funding agreements with the FHLB of Boston was $726 million and $926 million at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively, which is included in policyholder account balances. The advances on these funding agreements are collateralized by residential mortgage-backed securities with fair values of $901 million and $1.1 billion at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively.
 
MLIC is a member of the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York ("FHLB of NY") and holds $339 million and $136 million of common stock of the FHLB of NY at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively, which is included in equity securities. MLIC has also entered into funding agreements with the FHLB of NY whereby MLIC has issued such funding agreements in exchange for cash and for which the FHLB of NY has been granted a lien on certain MLIC assets, including residential mortgage-backed securities to collateralize MLIC's obligations under the funding agreements. MLIC maintains control over these pledged assets, and may use, commingle, encumber or dispose of any portion of the collateral as long as there is no event of default and the remaining qualified collateral is sufficient to satisfy the collateral maintenance level. Upon any event of default by MLIC, the FHLB of NY's recovery on the collateral is limited to the amount of MLIC's liability to the FHLB of NY. The amount of the Company's liability for funding agreements with the FHLB of NY was $4.6 billion at December 31, 2007, which is included in policyholder account balances. The advances on these agreements are collateralized by residential mortgage-backed securities with fair values of $4.8 billion at December 31, 2007. MLIC did not have any funding agreements with the FHLB of NY at December 31, 2006.
Table of Contents
 
 
 
MLIC has issued funding agreements to certain trusts that have issued securities guaranteed as to payment of interest and principal by the Federal Agricultural Mortgage Corporation, a federally chartered instrumentality of the United States. The obligations under these funding agreements are secured by a pledge of certain eligible agricultural real estate mortgage loans and may, under certain circumstances, be secured by other qualified collateral. The amount of the Company's liability for funding agreements issued to such trusts was $2.5 billion and $1.5 billion at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively, which is included in policyholder account balances. The obligations under these funding agreements are collateralized by designated agricultural real estate mortgage loans with fair values of $2.9 billion and $1.7 billion at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively.
 
Liabilities for Unpaid Claims and Claim Expenses
 
Information regarding the liabilities for unpaid claims and claim expenses relating to property and casualty, group accident and non-medical health policies and contracts, which are reported in future policy benefits and other policyholder funds, is as follows:
 
 
During 2007 and 2006, as a result of changes in estimates of insured events in the respective prior year, claims and claim adjustment expenses associated with prior years decreased by $325 million and $329 million, respectively, due to a reduction in prior year automobile bodily injury and homeowners' severity, reduced loss adjustment expenses, improved loss ratio for non-medical health claim liabilities and improved claim management.
 
In 2005, the claims and claim adjustment expenses decreased by $180 million due to a reduction in prior year automobile bodily injury and homeowners' severity as well as refinement in the estimation methodology for non-medical health long-term care claim liabilities.
 
Guarantees
 
The Company issues annuity contracts which may include contractual guarantees to the contractholder for: (i) return of no less than total deposits made to the contract less any partial withdrawals ("return of net deposits"); and (ii) the highest contract value on a specified anniversary date minus any withdrawals following the contract
Table of Contents
 
 
 
anniversary, or total deposits made to the contract less any partial withdrawals plus a minimum return ("anniversary contract value" or "minimum return"). The Company also issues annuity contracts that apply a lower rate of funds deposited if the contractholder elects to surrender the contract for cash and a higher rate if the contractholder elects to annuitize ("two tier annuities"). These guarantees include benefits that are payable in the event of death or at annuitization.
 
The Company also issues universal and variable life contracts where the Company contractually guarantees to the contractholder a secondary guarantee or a guaranteed benefit.
paid-up
 
Information regarding the types of guarantees relating to annuity contracts and universal and variable life contracts is as follows:
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
 
Information regarding the liabilities for guarantees (excluding base policy liabilities) relating to annuity and universal and variable life contracts is as follows:
 
 
Account balances of contracts with insurance guarantees are invested in separate account asset classes as follows:
 
 
 
The Company's life insurance operations participate in reinsurance activities in order to limit losses, minimize exposure to large risks, and provide additional capacity for future growth. The Company has historically reinsured the mortality risk on new individual life insurance policies primarily on an excess of retention basis or a quota share basis. Until 2005, the Company reinsured up to 90% of the mortality risk for all new individual life insurance policies that it wrote through its various franchises. This practice was initiated by the different franchises for different products starting at various points in time between 1992 and 2000. During 2005, the Company changed its retention practices for certain individual life insurance. Amounts reinsured in prior years remain reinsured under the
Table of Contents
 
 
 
original reinsurance; however, under the new retention guidelines, the Company reinsures up to 90% of the mortality risk in excess of $1 million for most new individual life insurance policies that it writes through its various franchises and for certain individual life policies the retention limits remained unchanged. On a case by case basis, the Company may retain up to $20 million per life and reinsure 100% of amounts in excess of the Company's retention limits. The Company evaluates its reinsurance programs routinely and may increase or decrease its retention at any time. In addition, the Company reinsures a significant portion of the mortality risk on its individual universal life policies issued since 1983. Placement of reinsurance is done primarily on an automatic basis and also on a facultative basis for risks with specific characteristics.
 
In addition to reinsuring mortality risk as described previously, the Company reinsures other risks, as well as specific coverages. The Company routinely reinsures certain classes of risks in order to limit its exposure to particular travel, avocation and lifestyle hazards. The Company has exposure to catastrophes, which could contribute to significant fluctuations in the Company's results of operations. The Company uses excess of retention and quota share reinsurance arrangements to provide greater diversification of risk and minimize exposure to larger risks.
 
The Company had also protected itself through the purchase of combination risk coverage. This reinsurance coverage pooled risks from several lines of business and included individual and group life claims in excess of $2 million per policy, as well as excess property and casualty losses, among others. This combination risk coverage was commuted during 2005.
 
The Company reinsures its business through a diversified group of reinsurers. No single unaffiliated reinsurer has a material obligation to the Company nor is the Company's business substantially dependent upon any reinsurance contracts. The Company is contingently liable with respect to ceded reinsurance should any reinsurer be unable to meet its obligations under these agreements.
 
The amounts in the consolidated statements of income are presented net of reinsurance ceded. Information regarding the effect of reinsurance is as follows:
 
 
Reinsurance recoverables, included in premiums and other receivables, were $9.8 billion and $9.7 billion at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively, including $1.2 billion at both December 31, 2007 and 2006 relating to reinsurance of long-term GICs and structured settlement lump sum contracts accounted for as a financing transaction; $3.4 billion and $3.0 billion at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively, relating to reinsurance on the run-off of long-term care business written by Travelers; $1.2 billion and $1.3 billion at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively, relating to reinsurance on the run-off of workers compensation business written by Travelers; and $1.1 billion and $1.4 billion at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively, relating to the reinsurance of investment-type contracts held by small market defined benefit contribution plans. Reinsurance and ceded commissions payables, included in other liabilities, were $571 million and $275 million at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively.
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
On April 7, 2000, (the "Demutualization Date"), MLIC converted from a mutual life insurance company to a stock life insurance company and became a wholly-owned subsidiary of MetLife, Inc. The conversion was pursuant to an order by the New York Superintendent of Insurance (the "Superintendent") approving MLIC's plan of reorganization, as amended (the "Plan"). On the Demutualization Date, MLIC established a closed block for the benefit of holders of certain individual life insurance policies of MLIC. Assets have been allocated to the closed block in an amount that has been determined to produce cash flows which, together with anticipated revenues from the policies included in the closed block, are reasonably expected to be sufficient to support obligations and liabilities relating to these policies, including, but not limited to, provisions for the payment of claims and certain expenses and taxes, and to provide for the continuation of policyholder dividend scales in effect for 1999, if the experience underlying such dividend scales continues, and for appropriate adjustments in such scales if the experience changes. At least annually, the Company compares actual and projected experience against the experience assumed in the then-current dividend scales. Dividend scales are adjusted periodically to give effect to changes in experience.
 
The closed block assets, the cash flows generated by the closed block assets and the anticipated revenues from the policies in the closed block will benefit only the holders of the policies in the closed block. To the extent that, over time, cash flows from the assets allocated to the closed block and claims and other experience related to the closed block are, in the aggregate, more or less favorable than what was assumed when the closed block was established, total dividends paid to closed block policyholders in the future may be greater than or less than the total dividends that would have been paid to these policyholders if the policyholder dividend scales in effect for 1999 had been continued. Any cash flows in excess of amounts assumed will be available for distribution over time to closed block policyholders and will not be available to stockholders. If the closed block has insufficient funds to make guaranteed policy benefit payments, such payments will be made from assets outside of the closed block. The closed block will continue in effect as long as any policy in the closed block remains in-force. The expected life of the closed block is over 100 years.
 
The Company uses the same accounting principles to account for the participating policies included in the closed block as it used prior to the Demutualization Date. However, the Company establishes a policyholder dividend obligation for earnings that will be paid to policyholders as additional dividends as described below. The excess of closed block liabilities over closed block assets at the effective date of the demutualization (adjusted to eliminate the impact of related amounts in accumulated other comprehensive income) represents the estimated maximum future earnings from the closed block expected to result from operations attributed to the closed block after income taxes. Earnings of the closed block are recognized in income over the period the policies and contracts in the closed block remain in-force. Management believes that over time the actual cumulative earnings of the closed block will approximately equal the expected cumulative earnings due to the effect of dividend changes. If, over the period the closed block remains in existence, the actual cumulative earnings of the closed block is greater than the expected cumulative earnings of the closed block, the Company will pay the excess of the actual cumulative earnings of the closed block over the expected cumulative earnings to closed block policyholders as additional policyholder dividends unless offset by future unfavorable experience of the closed block and, accordingly, will recognize only the expected cumulative earnings in income with the excess recorded as a policyholder dividend obligation. If over such period, the actual cumulative earnings of the closed block is less than the expected cumulative earnings of the closed block, the Company will recognize only the actual earnings in income. However, the Company may change policyholder dividend scales in the future, which would be intended to increase future actual earnings until the actual cumulative earnings equal the expected cumulative earnings.
Table of Contents
 
 
 
Information regarding the closed block liabilities and assets designated to the closed block is as follows:
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
Information regarding the closed block policyholder dividend obligation is as follows:
 
 
Information regarding the closed block revenues and expenses is as follows:
 
 
The change in the maximum future earnings of the closed block is as follows:
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
MLIC charges the closed block with federal income taxes, state and local premium taxes, and other additive state or local taxes, as well as investment management expenses relating to the closed block as provided in the Plan. MLIC also charges the closed block for expenses of maintaining the policies included in the closed block.
 
 
Long-term and short-term debt outstanding is as follows:
 
 
The aggregate maturities of long-term debt as of December 31, 2007 for the next five years are $428 million in 2008, $536 million in 2009, $285 million in 2010, $765 million in 2011, $471 million in 2012 and $6,615 million thereafter.
 
Repurchase agreements and capital lease obligations are collateralized and rank highest in priority, followed by unsecured senior debt which consists of senior notes, fixed rate notes and other notes with varying interest rates, followed by subordinated debt which consists of junior subordinated debentures. Payments of interest and principal on the Company's surplus notes, which are subordinate to all other obligations at the operating company level and senior to obligations at the Holding Company, may be made only with the prior approval of the insurance department of the state of domicile. Collateral financing arrangements are supported by either surplus notes of subsidiaries or financing arrangements with the Holding Company and accordingly have priority consistent with other such obligations.
 
Senior Notes
 
The Holding Company repaid a $500 million 5.25% senior note which matured in December 2006 and a $1,006 million 3.911% senior note which matured in May 2005.
 
In connection with financing the acquisition of Travelers on July 1, 2005, which is described in Note 2, the Holding Company issued the following debt:
 
In June 2005, the Holding Company issued $1,000 million aggregate principal amount of 5.00% senior notes due June 15, 2015 at a discount of $2.7 million ($997.3 million) and $1,000 million aggregate principal amount of 5.70% senior notes due June 15, 2035 at a discount of $2.4 million ($997.6 million). In connection with the offering, the Holding Company incurred $12.4 million of issuance costs which have been capitalized and included in other assets. These costs are being amortized using the effective interest method over the respective term of the related senior notes.
Table of Contents
 
 
 
In June 2005, the Holding Company issued 400 million pounds sterling ($729.2 million at issuance) aggregate principal amount of 5.25% senior notes due June 29, 2020 at a discount of 4.5 million pounds sterling ($8.1 million at issuance), for aggregate proceeds of 395.5 million pounds sterling ($721.1 million at issuance). The senior notes were initially offered and sold outside the United States in reliance upon Regulation S under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"). In connection with the offering, the Holding Company incurred $3.7 million of issuance costs which have been capitalized and included in other assets. These costs are being amortized using the effective interest method over the term of the related senior notes.
 
Repurchase Agreements with Federal Home Loan Bank
 
MetLife Bank, National Association ("MetLife Bank") is a member of the FHLB of NY and holds $64 million and $54 million of common stock of the FHLB of NY at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively, which is included in equity securities. MetLife Bank has also entered into repurchase agreements with the FHLB of NY whereby MetLife Bank has issued repurchase agreements in exchange for cash and for which the FHLB of NY has been granted a blanket lien on MetLife Bank's residential mortgages and mortgage-backed securities to collateralize MetLife Bank's obligations under the repurchase agreements. MetLife Bank maintains control over these pledged assets, and may use, commingle, encumber or dispose of any portion of the collateral as long as there is no event of default and the remaining qualified collateral is sufficient to satisfy the collateral maintenance level. The repurchase agreements and the related security agreement represented by this blanket lien provide that upon any event of default by MetLife Bank, the FHLB of NY's recovery is limited to the amount of MetLife Bank's liability under the outstanding repurchase agreements. During the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, MetLife Bank received advances totaling $390 million, $260 million and $775 million, respectively, from the FHLB of NY. MetLife Bank also made repayments of $175 million, $117 million and $25 million, respectively, for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005. The amount of the Company's liability for repurchase agreements with the FHLB of NY was $1.2 billion and $998 million at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively, which is included in long-term debt. The advances on these repurchase agreements are collateralized by residential mortgage-backed securities and residential mortgage loans with fair values of $1.3 billion at both December 31, 2007 and 2006.
 
Surplus Notes
 
MLIC repaid a $250 million 7% surplus note which matured on November 1, 2005.
 
Short-term Debt
 
During the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, the Company's short-term debt consisted of commercial paper with a weighted average interest rate of 5.0%, 5.2% and 3.4%, respectively. During the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, the commercial paper's average daily balance was $1.6 billion, $1.9 billion and $1.0 billion, respectively, and was outstanding for an average of 30 days, 39 days and 53 days, respectively.
 
Interest Expense
 
Interest expense related to the Company's indebtedness included in other expenses was $600 million, $642 million and $503 million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively, and does not include interest expense on collateral financing arrangements, junior subordinated debt securities, common equity units or shares subject to mandatory redemption. See Notes 11, 12, 13 and 14.
 
Credit and Committed Facilities and Letters of Credit
 
  The Company maintains committed and unsecured credit facilities aggregating $3.2 billion as of December 31, 2007. When drawn upon, these facilities bear interest at varying rates in accordance with the
Credit Facilities.
Table of Contents
 
 
 
respective agreements. The facilities can be used for general corporate purposes and at December 31, 2007, $3.0 billion of the facilities also served as lines of credit for the Company's commercial paper programs. Information on these credit facilities as of December 31, 2007 is as follows:
back-up
 
 
 
 
  Information on committed facilities as of December 31, 2007 is as follows:
Committed Facilities.
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
  At December 31, 2007, the Company had outstanding $3.7 billion in letters of credit, all of which are associated with the aforementioned credit facilities, from various financial institutions, of which $2.1 billion and $1.5 billion were part of committed and credit facilities, respectively. As commitments associated with letters of credit and financing arrangements may expire unused, these amounts do not necessarily reflect the Company's actual future cash funding requirements.
Letters of Credit.
 
 
Associated with the Closed Block
 
In December 2007, MLIC reinsured a portion of its closed block liabilities to MetLife Reinsurance Company of Charleston ("MRC"), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company. In connection with this transaction, MRC issued, to investors placed by an unaffiliated financial institution, $2.5 billion of surplus notes to provide statutory reserve support for the assumed closed block liabilities. Interest on the surplus notes accrues at an annual rate of LIBOR plus 55 basis points, payable quarterly. The ability of MRC to make interest and principal payments on the surplus notes is contingent upon South Carolina regulatory approval.
35-year
3-month
 
Simultaneous with issuing the surplus notes, the Holding Company entered into an agreement with the unaffiliated financial institution, under which the Holding Company is entitled to the interest paid by MRC on the surplus notes of LIBOR plus 55 basis points in exchange for the payment of LIBOR plus 112 basis points, payable quarterly. Under this agreement, the Holding Company may also be required to make payments to the unaffiliated financial institution related to any decline in the market value of the surplus notes and in connection with any early termination of this agreement.
3-month
3-month
 
A majority of the proceeds from the offering of the surplus notes were placed in trust to support MRC's statutory obligations associated with the assumed closed block liabilities. The trust is a VIE which is consolidated by the Company.
 
At December 31, 2007, the Company held assets in trust of $1.9 billion associated with the transaction. The Company's consolidated balance sheet includes these assets as fixed maturity securities. The Company's consolidated statement of income includes the investment returns on the assets held as collateral as net investment income and the interest on the collateral financing arrangement is included as a component of other expenses.
 
Total interest expense was $5 million for the year ended December 31, 2007.
 
Associated with Secondary Guarantees
 
In May 2007, the Holding Company and MRSC entered into a collateral financing arrangement with an unaffiliated financial institution that provides up to $3.5 billion of statutory reserve support for MRSC associated with reinsurance obligations under intercompany reinsurance agreements. Such statutory reserves are associated with universal life secondary guarantees and are required under U.S. Valuation of Life Policies Model Regulation (commonly referred to as At December 31, 2007, $2.4 billion had been drawn upon under the collateral financing arrangement. The collateral financing arrangement may be extended by agreement of the Holding Company and the unaffiliated financial institution on each anniversary of the closing.
30-year
Regulation A-XXX).
 
Proceeds from the collateral financing arrangement were placed in trust to support MRSC's statutory obligations associated with the reinsurance of secondary guarantees. The trust is a VIE which is consolidated
Table of Contents
 
 
 
by the Company. The unaffiliated financial institution is entitled to the return on the investment portfolio held by the trust.
 
Simultaneous with entering into the collateral financing arrangement, the Holding Company entered into an agreement with the same unaffiliated financial institution under which the Holding Company is entitled to the return on the investment portfolio held by the trust established in connection with this collateral financing arrangement in exchange for the payment of a stated rate of return to the unaffiliated financial institution of LIBOR plus 70 basis points, payable quarterly. The Holding Company may also be required to make payments to the unaffiliated financial institution, for deposit into the trust, related to any decline in the market value of the assets held by the trust, as well as amounts outstanding upon maturity or early termination of the collateral financing arrangement.
3-month
 
At December 31, 2007, the Company held assets in trust of $2.3 billion associated with this transaction. The Company's consolidated balance sheet includes these assets as fixed maturity securities. The Company's consolidated statement of income includes the investment returns on the assets held as collateral as net investment income and the interest on the collateral financing arrangement is included as a component of other expenses.
 
Transaction costs associated with the collateral financing arrangement of $5 million have been capitalized, are included in other assets, and are amortized using the effective interest method over the period from the issuance of the collateral financing arrangement to its expiration. Total interest expense was $84 million for the year ended December 31, 2007.
 
 
Junior Subordinated Debentures Underlying Common Equity Units
 
In connection with the acquisition of Travelers on July 1, 2005, the Holding Company issued on June 21, 2005 $1,067 million 4.82% Series A and $1,067 million 4.91% Series B junior subordinated debentures due no later than February 15, 2039 and February 15, 2040, respectively, for a total of $2,134 million in connection with the common equity units more fully described in Note 13. Interest expense related to the junior subordinated debentures underlying common equity units was $104 million, $104 million and $55 million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.
 
Other Junior Subordinated Debentures Issued by the Holding Company
 
In December 2006, the Holding Company issued junior subordinated debentures with a face amount of $1.25 billion. The debentures are scheduled for redemption on December 15, 2036; the final maturity of the debentures is December 15, 2066. The Holding Company may redeem the debentures (i) in whole or in part, at any time on or after December 15, 2031 at their principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest to the date of redemption, or (ii) in certain circumstances, in whole or in part, prior to December 15, 2031 at their principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest to the date of redemption or, if greater, a make-whole price. Interest is payable semi-annually at a fixed rate of 6.40% up to, but not including, December 15, 2036, the scheduled redemption date. In the event the debentures are not redeemed on or before the scheduled redemption date, interest will accrue at an annual rate of LIBOR plus a margin equal to 2.205%, payable quarterly in arrears. The Holding Company has the right to, and in certain circumstances the requirement to, defer interest payments on the debentures for a period up to ten years. Interest compounds during such periods of deferral. If interest is deferred for more than five consecutive years, the Holding Company may be required to use proceeds from the sale of its common stock or warrants on common stock to satisfy its obligation. In connection with the issuance of the debentures, the Holding Company entered into a replacement capital covenant ("RCC"). As part of the RCC, the Holding Company agreed that it will not repay, redeem, or purchase the debentures on or before December 15, 2056, unless, subject to certain limitations, it has received proceeds from the sale of specified capital securities. The RCC will terminate upon the occurrence of certain events, including an acceleration of the debentures due to the occurrence of an event of default. The RCC is not intended for the benefit of holders of the debentures and may not
3-month
Table of Contents
 
 
 
be enforced by them. The RCC is for the benefit of holders of one or more other designated series of its indebtedness (which will initially be its 5.70% senior notes due June 15, 2035). The Holding Company also entered into a replacement capital obligation which will commence in 2036 and under which the Holding Company must use reasonable commercial efforts to raise replacement capital through the issuance of certain qualifying capital securities. Issuance costs associated with the offering of the debentures of $13 million have been capitalized, are included in other assets, and are amortized using the effective interest method over the period from the issuance date of the debentures until their scheduled redemption. Interest expense on the debentures was $80 million and $2 million for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively.
 
In December 2007, MetLife Capital Trust IV ("Trust IV"), a VIE consolidated by the Company, issued exchangeable surplus trust securities (the "Trust Securities") with a face amount of $700 million and a discount of $6 million ($694 million). The Trust Securities will be exchanged into a like amount of Holding Company junior subordinated debentures on December 15, 2037, the scheduled redemption date; mandatorily under certain circumstances; and at any time upon the Holding Company exercising its option to redeem the securities. The Trust Securities will be exchanged for junior subordinated debentures prior to repayment. The final maturity of the debentures is December 15, 2067. The Holding Company may cause the redemption of the Trust Securities or debentures (i) in whole or in part, at any time on or after December 15, 2032 at their principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest to the date of redemption, or (ii) in certain circumstances, in whole or in part, prior to December 15, 2032 at their principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest to the date of redemption or, if greater, a make-whole price. Interest on the Trust Securities or debentures is payable semi-annually at a fixed rate of 7.875% up to, but not including, December 15, 2037, the scheduled redemption date. In the event the Trust Securities or debentures are not redeemed on or before the scheduled redemption date, interest will accrue at an annual rate of LIBOR plus a margin equal to 3.96%, payable quarterly in arrears. The Holding Company has the right to, and in certain circumstances the requirement to, defer interest payments on the Trust Securities or debentures for a period up to ten years. Interest compounds during such periods of deferral. If interest is deferred for more than five consecutive years, the Holding Company may be required to use proceeds from the sale of its common stock or warrants on common stock to satisfy its obligation. In connection with the issuance of the Trust Securities, the Holding Company entered into a RCC. As a part of the RCC, the Holding Company agreed that it will not repay, redeem, or purchase the debentures on or before December 15, 2057, unless, subject to certain limitations, it has received proceeds from the sale of specified capital securities. The RCC will terminate upon the occurrence of certain events, including an acceleration of the debentures due to the occurrence of an event of default. The RCC is not intended for the benefit of holders of the debentures and may not be enforced by them. The RCC is for the benefit of holders of one or more other designated series of its indebtedness (which will initially be its 5.70% senior notes due June 15, 2035). The Holding Company also entered into a replacement capital obligation which will commence in 2037 and under which the Holding Company must use reasonable commercial efforts to raise replacement capital through the issuance of certain qualifying capital securities. Issuance costs associated with the offering of the Trust Securities of $10 million have been capitalized, are included in other assets, and are amortized using the effective interest method over the period from the issuance date of the Trust Securities until their scheduled redemption. Interest expense on the Trust Securities was $3 million for the year ended December 31, 2007.
3-month
 
 
In connection with financing the acquisition of Travelers on July 1, 2005, which is described in Note 2, the Holding Company distributed and sold 82.8 million 6.375% common equity units for $2,070 million in proceeds in a registered public offering on June 21, 2005. As described below, the common equity units consist of interests in trust preferred securities issued by MetLife Capital Trusts II and III, and stock purchase contracts issued by the Holding Company. The only assets of MetLife Capital Trusts II and III are junior subordinated debentures issued by the Holding Company.
Table of Contents
 
 
 
Common Equity Units
 
Each common equity unit has an initial stated amount of $25 per unit and consists of: (i) a 1/80 or 1.25% ($12.50), undivided beneficial ownership interest in a series A trust preferred security of MetLife Capital Trust II ("Series A Trust"), with an initial liquidation amount of $1,000; (ii) a 1/80 or 1.25% ($12.50), undivided beneficial ownership interest in a series B trust preferred security of MetLife Capital Trust III ("Series B Trust" and, together with the Series A Trust, the "Capital Trusts"), with an initial liquidation amount of $1,000; (iii) a stock purchase contract under which the holder of the common equity unit will purchase and the Holding Company will sell, on each of the initial stock purchase date and the subsequent stock purchase date, a variable number of shares of the Holding Company's common stock, par value $0.01 per share, for a purchase price of $12.50.
 
Junior Subordinated Debentures Issued to Support Trust Common and Preferred Securities
 
The Holding Company issued $1,067 million 4.82% Series A and $1,067 million 4.91% Series B junior subordinated debt securities due no later than February 15, 2039 and February 15, 2040, respectively, for a total of $2,134 million, in exchange for $2,070 million in aggregate proceeds from the sale of the trust preferred securities by the Capital Trusts and $64 million in trust common securities issued equally by the Capital Trusts. The common and preferred securities of the Capital Trusts, totaling $2,134 million, represent undivided beneficial ownership interests in the assets of the Capital Trusts, have no stated maturity and must be redeemed upon maturity of the corresponding series of junior subordinated debt securities  the sole assets of the respective Capital Trusts. The Series A Trust and Series B Trust will each make quarterly distributions on the common and preferred securities at an annual rate of 4.82% and 4.91%, respectively.
 
The trust common securities, which are held by the Holding Company, represent a 3% interest in the Trusts and are reflected as fixed maturity securities in the consolidated balance sheet of MetLife, Inc. The Capital Trusts are VIEs in accordance with FIN 46(r), and the Company does not consolidate its interest in MetLife Capital Trusts II and III as it is not the primary beneficiary of either of the Capital Trusts.
 
The Holding Company has directly guaranteed the repayment of the trust preferred securities to the holders thereof to the extent that there are funds available in the Capital Trusts. The guarantee will remain in place until the full redemption of the trust preferred securities. The trust preferred securities held by the common equity unit holders are pledged to the Holding Company to collateralize the obligation of the common equity unit holders under the related stock purchase contracts. The common equity unit holder may substitute certain zero coupon treasury securities in place of the trust preferred securities as collateral under the stock purchase contract.
 
The trust preferred securities have remarketing dates which correspond with the initial and subsequent stock purchase dates to provide the holders of the common equity units with the proceeds to exercise the stock purchase contracts. The initial stock purchase date is expected to be August 15, 2008, but could be deferred for quarterly periods until February 15, 2009, and the subsequent stock purchase date is expected to be February 15, 2009, but could be deferred for quarterly periods until February 15, 2010. At the remarketing date, the remarketing agent will have the ability to reset the interest rate on the trust preferred securities to generate sufficient remarketing proceeds to satisfy the common equity unit holder's obligation under the stock purchase contract, subject to a reset cap for each of the first two attempted remarketings of each series. The interest rate on the supporting junior subordinated debt securities issued by the Holding Company will be reset at a commensurate rate. If the initial remarketing is unsuccessful, the remarketing agent will attempt to remarket the trust preferred securities, as necessary, in subsequent quarters through February 15, 2009 for the Series A trust preferred securities and through February 15, 2010 for the Series B trust preferred securities. The final attempt at remarketing will not be subject to the reset cap. If all remarketing attempts are unsuccessful, the Holding Company has the right, as a secured party, to apply the liquidation amount on the trust preferred securities to the common equity unit holders obligation under the stock purchase contract and to deliver to the common equity unit holder a junior subordinated debt security payable on August 15, 2010 at an annual rate of 4.82% and 4.91% on the Series A and Series B trust preferred securities, respectively, in payment of any accrued and unpaid distributions.
Table of Contents
 
 
 
Stock Purchase Contracts
 
Each stock purchase contract requires the holder of the common equity unit to purchase, and the Holding Company to sell, for $12.50, on each of the initial stock purchase date and the subsequent stock purchase date, a number of newly issued or treasury shares of the Holding Company's common stock, par value $0.01 per share, equal to the applicable settlement rate. The settlement rate at the respective stock purchase date will be calculated based on the closing price of the common stock during a specified period immediately preceding the applicable stock purchase date. If the market value of the Holding Company's common stock is less than the threshold appreciation price of $53.10 but greater than $43.35, the reference price, the settlement rate will be a number of the Holding Company's common stock equal to the stated amount of $12.50 divided by the market value. If the market value is less than or equal to the reference price, the settlement rate will be 0.28835 shares of the Holding Company's common stock. If the market value is greater than or equal to the threshold appreciation price, the settlement rate will be 0.23540 shares of the Holding Company's common stock as adjusted in accordance with the terms of the stock purchase contracts. Accordingly, upon settlement in the aggregate, the Holding Company will receive proceeds of $2,070 million and issue between 39.0 million and 47.8 million shares of its common stock. The stock purchase contract may be exercised at the option of the holder at any time prior to the settlement date. However, upon early settlement, the holder will receive the minimum settlement rate.
20-day
 
The stock purchase contracts further require the Holding Company to pay the holder of the common equity unit quarterly contract payments on the stock purchase contracts at the annual rate of 1.510% on the stated amount of $25 per stock purchase contract until the initial stock purchase date and at the annual rate of 1.465% on the remaining stated amount of $12.50 per stock purchase contract thereafter.
 
The quarterly distributions on the Series A and Series B trust preferred securities of 4.82% and 4.91%, respectively, combined with the contract payments on the stock purchase contract of 1.510%, (1.465% after the initial stock purchase date) result in the 6.375% yield on the common equity units.
 
If the Holding Company defers any of the contract payments on the stock purchase contract, then it will accrue additional amounts on the deferred amounts at the annual rate of 6.375% until paid, to the extent permitted by law.
 
The value of the stock purchase contracts at issuance, $96.6 million, were calculated as the present value of the future contract payments due under the stock purchase contract of 1.510% through the initial stock purchase date, and 1.465% up to the subsequent stock purchase date, discounted at the interest rate on the supporting junior subordinated debt securities issued by the Holding Company, 4.82% or 4.91% on the Series A and Series B trust preferred securities, respectively. The value of the stock purchase contracts was recorded in other liabilities with an offsetting decrease in additional paid-in capital. The other liability balance related to the stock purchase contracts will accrue interest at the discount rate of 4.82% or 4.91%, as applicable, with an offsetting increase to interest expense. When the contract payments are made under the stock purchase contracts they will reduce the other liability balance. During the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, the Holding Company increased the other liability balance for the accretion of the discount on the contract payment of $2 million, $3 million and $2 million and made contract payments of $31 million, $31 million and $13 million, respectively.
 
Issuance Costs
 
In connection with the offering of common equity units, the Holding Company incurred $55.3 million of issuance costs of which $5.8 million relate to the issuance of the junior subordinated debt securities underlying common equity units which fund the Series A and Series B trust preferred securities and $49.5 million relate to the expected issuance of the common stock under the stock purchase contracts. The $5.8 million in debt issuance costs have been capitalized, are included in other assets, and are being amortized using the effective interest method over the period from issuance date of the common equity units to the initial and subsequent stock purchase date. The remaining $49.5 million of costs relate to the common stock issuance under the stock purchase contracts and have been recorded as a reduction of additional paid-in capital.
Table of Contents
 
 
 
Earnings Per Common Share
 
The stock purchase contracts are reflected in diluted earnings per common share using the treasury stock method, and are dilutive when the average closing price of the Company's common stock for each of the 20 trading days before the close of the accounting period is greater than or equal to the threshold appreciation price of $53.10. During the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, the average closing price for each of the 20 trading days before December 31 was greater than the threshold appreciation price. Accordingly, the stock purchase contracts were included in diluted earnings per common share for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006. During the period from the date of issuance through December 31, 2005, the average closing price for each of the 20 trading days before December 31 was less than the threshold appreciate price. Accordingly, the stock purchase contracts were excluded in diluted earnings per common share for the year ended December 31, 2005. See Note 20.
 
 
  In June 1997, GenAmerica Corporation ("GenAmerica") issued $125 million of 8.525% capital securities through a wholly-owned subsidiary trust, GenAmerica Capital I. In October 2007, GenAmerica redeemed these securities which were due to mature on June 30, 2027. As a result of this redemption, the Company recognized additional interest expense of $10 million. Capital securities outstanding were $119 million, net of unamortized discounts of $6 million at December 31, 2006. Interest expense on these instruments is included in other expenses and was $20 million, $11 million and $11 million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.
GenAmerica Capital I.
 
 
The provision for income tax from continuing operations is as follows:
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
The reconciliation of the income tax provision at the U.S. statutory rate to the provision for income tax as reported for continuing operations is as follows:
 
 
Included in the 2005 total tax provision was a $27 million tax benefit related to the repatriation of foreign earnings pursuant to Internal Revenue Code Section 965 for which a U.S. deferred tax position had previously been recorded.
Table of Contents
 
 
 
Deferred income tax represents the tax effect of the differences between the book and tax basis of assets and liabilities. Net deferred income tax assets and liabilities consisted of the following:
 
 
Domestic net operating loss carryforwards amount to $1,157 million at December 31, 2007 and will expire beginning in 2020. Foreign net operating loss carryforwards amount to $694 million at December 31, 2007 and were generated in various foreign countries with expiration periods of five years to indefinite expiration. Capital loss carryforwards amount to $452 million at December 31, 2007 and will expire beginning in 2011. Tax credit carryforwards amount to $20 million at December 31, 2007.
 
The Company has recorded a valuation allowance related to tax benefits of certain foreign net operating loss carryforwards. The valuation allowance reflects management's assessment, based on available information, that it is more likely than not that the deferred income tax asset for certain foreign net operating loss carryforwards will not be realized. The tax benefit will be recognized when management believes that it is more likely than not that these deferred income tax assets are realizable. In 2007, the Company recorded a reduction of $107 million to the deferred income tax valuation allowance related to certain foreign net operating loss carryforwards and other deferred tax assets.
 
The Company files income tax returns with the U.S. federal government and various state and local jurisdictions, as well as foreign jurisdictions. The Company is under continuous examination by the Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") and other tax authorities in jurisdictions in which the Company has significant business operations. The income tax years under examination vary by jurisdiction. With a few exceptions, the Company is no longer subject to U.S. federal, state and local, or foreign income tax examinations by tax authorities for years prior to 2000. In the first quarter of 2005, the IRS commenced an examination of the Company's U.S. income tax returns for 2000 through 2002 that is anticipated to be completed in 2008.
Table of Contents
 
 
 
As a result of the implementation of FIN 48 on January 1, 2007, the Company recognized a $35 million increase in the liability for unrecognized tax benefits and a $9 million decrease in the interest liability for unrecognized tax benefits, as well as a $17 million increase in the liability for unrecognized tax benefits and a $5 million increase in the interest liability for unrecognized tax benefits which are included in liabilities of subsidiaries held-for-sale. The corresponding reduction to the January 1, 2007 balance of retained earnings was $37 million, net of $11 million of minority interest included in liabilities of subsidiaries held-for-sale. The Company's total amount of unrecognized tax benefits upon adoption of FIN 48 was $932 million. The Company reclassified, at adoption, $602 million of current income tax payables to the liability for unrecognized tax benefits included within other liabilities. The Company also reclassified, at adoption, $295 million of deferred income tax liabilities, for which the ultimate deductibility is highly certain but for which there is uncertainty about the timing of such deductibility, to the liability for unrecognized tax benefits. Because of the impact of deferred tax accounting, other than interest and penalties, the disallowance of the shorter deductibility period would not affect the annual effective tax rate but would accelerate the payment of cash to the taxing authority to an earlier period. The total amount of unrecognized tax benefits as of January 1, 2007 that would affect the effective tax rate, if recognized, was $654 million. The Company also had $210 million of accrued interest, included within other liabilities, as of January 1, 2007. The Company classifies interest accrued related to unrecognized tax benefits in interest expense, while penalties are included within income tax expense.
 
As of December 31, 2007, the Company's total amount of unrecognized tax benefits is $840 million and the total amount of unrecognized tax benefits that would affect the effective tax rate, if recognized, is $565 million. The total amount of unrecognized tax benefits decreased by $92 million from the date of adoption primarily due to settlements reached with the IRS with respect to certain significant issues involving demutualization, post-sale purchase price adjustments, and reinsurance offset by additions for tax positions of the current year. As a result of the settlements, items within the liability for unrecognized tax benefits, in the amount of $177 million, were reclassified to current and deferred income taxes, as applicable, and a payment of $156 million was made in December of 2007 with the remaining $21 million to be paid in future years. In addition, the Company's liability for unrecognized tax benefits may change significantly in the next 12 months pending the outcome of remaining issues associated with the current IRS audit including demutualization, leasing, tax-exempt income, transfer pricing and tax credits. Management is working to resolve the remaining audit items directly with IRS auditors as well as through available accelerated IRS resolution programs and may protest any unresolved issues through the IRS appeals process and, possibly, litigation, the timing and extent of which is uncertain. Therefore, a reasonable estimate of the range of a payment or change in the liability cannot be made at this time; however, the Company continues to believe that the ultimate resolution of the issues will not result in a material effect on its consolidated financial statements, although the resolution of income tax matters could impact the Company's effective tax rate for a particular future period.
 
A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of unrecognized tax benefits for the year ended December 31, 2007, is as follows:
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
During the year ended December 31, 2007, the Company recognized $81 million in interest expense associated with the liability for unrecognized tax benefits. As of December 31, 2007, the Company had $218 million of accrued interest associated with the liability for unrecognized tax benefits. The $8 million increase, from the date of adoption, in accrued interest associated with the liability for unrecognized tax benefits resulted from an increase of $81 million of interest expense and a $73 million decrease primarily resulting from the aforementioned IRS settlements. During 2007, $73 million resulting from IRS settlements, has been reclassified to current income tax payable.
 
On September 25, 2007, the IRS issued Revenue Ruling which announced its intention to issue regulations with respect to certain computational aspects of the Dividends Received Deduction ("DRD") on separate account assets held in connection with variable annuity contracts. Revenue Ruling suspended a revenue ruling issued in August 2007 that would have changed accepted industry and IRS interpretations of the statutes governing these computational questions. Any regulations that the IRS ultimately proposes for issuance in this area will be subject to public notice and comment, at which time insurance companies and other interested parties will have the opportunity to raise legal and practical questions about the content, scope and application of such regulations. As a result, the ultimate timing and substance of any such regulations are unknown at this time. For the year ended December 31, 2007, the Company recognized an income tax benefit of $188 million related to the separate account DRD.
2007-61,
2007-61
 
 
Contingencies
 
Litigation
 
The Company is a defendant in a large number of litigation matters. In some of the matters, very large indeterminate amounts, including punitive and treble damages, are sought. Modern pleading practice in the United States permits considerable variation in the assertion of monetary damages or other relief. Jurisdictions may permit claimants not to specify the monetary damages sought or may permit claimants to state only that the amount sought is sufficient to invoke the jurisdiction of the trial court. In addition, jurisdictions may permit plaintiffs to allege monetary damages in amounts well exceeding reasonably possible verdicts in the jurisdiction for similar matters. This variability in pleadings, together with the actual experience of the Company in litigating or resolving through settlement numerous claims over an extended period of time, demonstrate to management that the monetary relief which may be specified in a lawsuit or claim bears little relevance to its merits or disposition value. Thus, unless stated below, the specific monetary relief sought is not noted.
and/or
 
Due to the vagaries of litigation, the outcome of a litigation matter and the amount or range of potential loss at particular points in time may normally be inherently impossible to ascertain with any degree of certainty. Inherent uncertainties can include how fact finders will view individually and in their totality documentary evidence, the credibility and effectiveness of witnesses' testimony, and how trial and appellate courts will apply the law in the context of the pleadings or evidence presented, whether by motion practice, or at trial or on appeal. Disposition valuations are also subject to the uncertainty of how opposing parties and their counsel will themselves view the relevant evidence and applicable law.
 
On a quarterly and annual basis, the Company reviews relevant information with respect to litigation and contingencies to be reflected in the Company's consolidated financial statements. The review includes senior legal and financial personnel. In 2007, the Company received $39 million upon the resolution of an indemnification claim associated with the 2000 acquisition of General American Life Insurance Company ("GALIC"), and the Company reduced legal liabilities by $38 million after the settlement of certain cases. Unless stated below, estimates of possible losses or ranges of loss for particular matters cannot in the ordinary course be made with a reasonable degree of certainty. Liabilities are established when it is probable that a loss has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. Liabilities have been established for a number of the matters noted below; in 2007 the Company increased legal liabilities for pending sales practices, employment, property and casualty and intellectual property litigation matters
Table of Contents
 
 
 
against the Company. It is possible that some of the matters could require the Company to pay damages or make other expenditures or establish accruals in amounts that could not be estimated as of December 31, 2007.
 
Demutualization Actions
 
Several lawsuits were brought in 2000 challenging the fairness of the Plan and the adequacy and accuracy of MLIC's disclosure to policyholders regarding the Plan. The actions discussed below name as defendants some or all of MLIC, the Holding Company, and individual directors. MLIC, the Holding Company, and the individual directors believe they have meritorious defenses to the plaintiffs' claims and are contesting vigorously all of the plaintiffs' claims in these actions.
 
  The plaintiffs in the consolidated state court class actions seek compensatory relief and punitive damages against MLIC, the Holding Company, and individual directors. On January 30, 2007, the trial court signed an order certifying a litigation class of present and former policyholders on plaintiffs' claim that defendants violated section 7312 of the New York Insurance Law, but denying plaintiffs' motion to certify a litigation class with respect to a common law fraud claim. Plaintiffs and defendants have filed notices of appeal from this order. The court has directed various forms of class notice.
Fiala, et al. v. Metropolitan Life Ins. Co., et al. (Sup. Ct., N.Y. County, filed March 17, 2000).
 
  In this class action against MLIC and the Holding Company, plaintiffs served a second consolidated amended complaint in 2004. Plaintiffs assert violations of the Securities Act and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), in connection with the Plan, claiming that the Policyholder Information Booklets failed to disclose certain material facts and contained certain material misstatements. They seek rescission and compensatory damages. By orders dated July 19, 2005 and August 29, 2006, the federal trial court certified a litigation class of present and former policyholders. The court has not yet directed the manner and form of class notice.
In re MetLife Demutualization Litig. (E.D.N.Y., filed April 18, 2000).
 
Asbestos-Related Claims
 
MLIC is and has been a defendant in a large number of asbestos-related suits filed primarily in state courts. These suits principally allege that the plaintiff or plaintiffs suffered personal injury resulting from exposure to asbestos and seek both actual and punitive damages. MLIC has never engaged in the business of manufacturing, producing, distributing or selling asbestos or asbestos-containing products nor has MLIC issued liability or workers' compensation insurance to companies in the business of manufacturing, producing, distributing or selling asbestos or asbestos-containing products. The lawsuits principally have focused on allegations with respect to certain research, publication and other activities of one or more of MLIC's employees during the period from the 1920's through approximately the 1950's and allege that MLIC learned or should have learned of certain health risks posed by asbestos and, among other things, improperly publicized or failed to disclose those health risks. MLIC believes that it should not have legal liability in these cases. The outcome of most asbestos litigation matters, however, is uncertain and can be impacted by numerous variables, including differences in legal rulings in various jurisdictions, the nature of the alleged injury, and factors unrelated to the ultimate legal merit of the claims asserted against MLIC. MLIC employs a number of resolution strategies to manage its asbestos loss exposure, including seeking resolution of pending litigation by judicial rulings and settling litigation under appropriate circumstances.
 
Claims asserted against MLIC have included negligence, intentional tort and conspiracy concerning the health risks associated with asbestos. MLIC's defenses (beyond denial of certain factual allegations) include that: (i) MLIC owed no duty to the plaintiffs  it had no special relationship with the plaintiffs and did not manufacture, produce, distribute or sell the asbestos products that allegedly injured plaintiffs; (ii) plaintiffs did not rely on any actions of MLIC; (iii) MLIC's conduct was not the cause of the plaintiffs' injuries; (iv) plaintiffs' exposure occurred after the dangers of asbestos were known; and (v) the applicable time with respect to filing suit has expired. During the course of the litigation, certain trial courts have granted motions dismissing claims against MLIC, while other trial courts have denied MLIC's motions to dismiss. There can be no assurance that MLIC will receive favorable
Table of Contents
 
 
 
decisions on motions in the future. While most cases brought to date have settled, MLIC intends to continue to defend aggressively against claims based on asbestos exposure, including defending claims at trials.
 
The approximate total number of asbestos personal injury claims pending against MLIC as of the dates indicated, the approximate number of new claims during the years ended on those dates and the approximate total settlement payments made to resolve asbestos personal injury claims at or during those years are set forth in the following table:
 
 
 
 
In 2004, MLIC received approximately 23,900 new claims, ending the year with a total of approximately 108,000 claims, and paid approximately $85.5 million for settlements reached in 2004 and prior years. In 2003, MLIC received approximately 58,750 new claims, ending the year with a total of approximately 111,700 claims, and paid approximately $84.2 million for settlements reached in 2003 and prior years. The number of asbestos cases that may be brought or the aggregate amount of any liability that MLIC may ultimately incur is uncertain.
 
The Company believes adequate provision has been made in its consolidated financial statements for all probable and reasonably estimable losses for asbestos-related claims. MLIC's recorded asbestos liability is based on its estimation of the following elements, as informed by the facts presently known to it, its understanding of current law, and its past experiences: (i) the reasonably probable and estimable liability for asbestos claims already asserted against MLIC, including claims settled but not yet paid; (ii) the reasonably probable and estimable liability for asbestos claims not yet asserted against MLIC, but which MLIC believes are reasonably probable of assertion; and (iii) the legal defense costs associated with the foregoing claims. Significant assumptions underlying MLIC's analysis of the adequacy of its recorded liability with respect to asbestos litigation include: (i) the number of future claims; (ii) the cost to resolve claims; and (iii) the cost to defend claims.
 
MLIC reevaluates on a quarterly and annual basis its exposure from asbestos litigation, including studying its claims experience, reviewing external literature regarding asbestos claims experience in the United States, assessing relevant trends impacting asbestos liability and considering numerous variables that can affect its asbestos liability exposure on an overall or per claim basis. These variables include bankruptcies of other companies involved in asbestos litigation, legislative and judicial developments, the number of pending claims involving serious disease, the number of new claims filed against it and other defendants, and the jurisdictions in which claims are pending. As previously disclosed, in 2002 MLIC increased its recorded liability for asbestos-related claims by $402 million from approximately $820 million to $1,225 million. MLIC regularly reevaluates its exposure from asbestos litigation and has updated its liability analysis for asbestos-related claims through December 31, 2007.
 
The ability of MLIC to estimate its ultimate asbestos exposure is subject to considerable uncertainty, and the conditions impacting its liability can be dynamic and subject to change. The availability of reliable data is limited and it is difficult to predict with any certainty the numerous variables that can affect liability estimates, including the number of future claims, the cost to resolve claims, the disease mix and severity of disease in pending and future claims, the impact of the number of new claims filed in a particular jurisdiction and variations in the law in the jurisdictions in which claims are filed, the possible impact of tort reform efforts, the willingness of courts to allow plaintiffs to pursue claims against MLIC when exposure to asbestos took place after the dangers of asbestos exposure were well known, and the impact of any possible future adverse verdicts and their amounts.
Table of Contents
 
 
 
The ability to make estimates regarding ultimate asbestos exposure declines significantly as the estimates relate to years further in the future. In the Company's judgment, there is a future point after which losses cease to be probable and reasonably estimable. It is reasonably possible that the Company's total exposure to asbestos claims may be materially greater than the asbestos liability currently accrued and that future charges to income may be necessary. While the potential future charges could be material in the particular quarterly or annual periods in which they are recorded, based on information currently known by management, management does not believe any such charges are likely to have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial position.
 
During 1998, MLIC paid $878 million in premiums for excess insurance policies for asbestos-related claims. The excess insurance policies for asbestos-related claims provide for recovery of losses up to $1.5 billion, which is in excess of a $400 million self-insured retention. The Company's initial option to commute the excess insurance policies for asbestos-related claims arises at the end of 2008. Thereafter, the Company will have a commutation right every five years. The excess insurance policies for asbestos-related claims are also subject to annual and per claim sublimits. Amounts exceeding the sublimits during 2007, 2006 and 2005 were approximately $16 million, $8 million and $0, respectively. The Company continues to study per claim averages, and there can be no assurance as to the number and cost of claims resolved in the future, including related defense costs, and the applicability of the sublimits to these costs. Amounts are recoverable under the policies annually with respect to claims paid during the prior calendar year. Although amounts paid by MLIC in any given year that may be recoverable in the next calendar year under the policies will be reflected as a reduction in the Company's operating cash flows for the year in which they are paid, management believes that the payments will not have a material adverse effect on the Company's liquidity.
 
Each asbestos-related policy contains an experience fund and a reference fund that provide for payments to MLIC at the commutation date if the reference fund is greater than zero at commutation or pro rata reductions from time to time in the loss reimbursements to MLIC if the cumulative return on the reference fund is less than the return specified in the experience fund. The return in the reference fund is tied to performance of the S&P 500 Index and the Lehman Brothers Aggregate Bond Index. A claim with respect to the prior year was made under the excess insurance policies in each year from 2003 through 2007 for the amounts paid with respect to asbestos litigation in excess of the retention. As the performance of the indices impacts the return in the reference fund, it is possible that loss reimbursements to the Company and the recoverable amount with respect to later periods may be less than the amount of the recorded losses. Foregone loss reimbursements may be recovered upon commutation depending upon future performance of the reference fund. If at some point in the future, the Company believes the liability for probable and reasonably estimable losses for asbestos-related claims should be increased, an expense would be recorded and the insurance recoverable would be adjusted subject to the terms, conditions and limits of the excess insurance policies. Portions of the change in the insurance recoverable would be recorded as a deferred gain and amortized into income over the estimated remaining settlement period of the insurance policies. The foregone loss reimbursements were approximately $56.1 million with respect to claims for the period of 2002 through 2006 and are estimated, as of December 31, 2007, to be approximately $69.1 million in the aggregate, including future years.
 
Sales Practices Claims
 
Over the past several years, MLIC; New England Mutual Life Insurance Company, New England Life Insurance Company and New England Securities Corporation (collectively "New England"); GALIC; Walnut Street Securities, Inc. ("Walnut Street Securities") and MetLife Securities, Inc. ("MSI") have faced numerous claims, including class action lawsuits, alleging improper marketing or sales of individual life insurance policies, annuities, mutual funds or other products.
 
As of December 31, 2007, there were approximately 130 sales practices litigation matters pending against the Company. The Company continues to vigorously defend against the claims in these matters. Some sales practices claims have been resolved through settlement. Other sales practices claims have been won by dispositive motions or have gone to trial. Most of the current cases seek substantial damages, including in some cases punitive and treble
Table of Contents
 
 
 
damages and attorneys' fees. Additional litigation relating to the Company's marketing and sales of individual life insurance, mutual funds or other products may be commenced in the future.
 
Two putative class action lawsuits involving sales practices claims are pending against MLIC in Canada. In , plaintiff alleges misrepresentations regarding dividends and future payments for life insurance policies and seeks unspecified damages. In , plaintiff alleges breach of contract and negligent misrepresentations relating to, among other things, life insurance premium payments and seeks damages, including punitive damages.
Jacynthe Evoy-Larouche v. Metropolitan Life Ins. Co. (Que. Super. Ct., filed March 1998)
Ace Quan v. Metropolitan Life Ins. Co. (Ont. Gen. Div., filed April 1997)
 
Regulatory authorities in a small number of states have had investigations or inquiries relating to MLIC's, New England's, GALIC's, MSI's or Walnut Street Securities' sales of individual life insurance policies or annuities or other products. Over the past several years, these and a number of investigations by other regulatory authorities were resolved for monetary payments and certain other relief. The Company may continue to resolve investigations in a similar manner. The Company believes adequate provision has been made in its consolidated financial statements for all probable and reasonably estimable losses for sales practices claims against MLIC, New England, GALIC, MSI and Walnut Street Securities.
 
Property and Casualty Actions
 
  There are a number of lawsuits, including a few putative class actions and "mass" actions, pending in Louisiana and Mississippi against Metropolitan Property and Casualty Insurance Company relating to Hurricane Katrina. The lawsuits include claims by policyholders for coverage for damages stemming from Hurricane Katrina, including for damages resulting from flooding or storm surge. The deadline for filing actions in Louisiana has expired. It is reasonably possible that additional actions will be filed in other states. The Company intends to continue to defend vigorously against these matters, although appropriate matters may be resolved as part of the ordinary claims adjustment process.
Katrina-Related Litigation.
 
Two putative nationwide class actions have been filed against Metropolitan Property and Casualty Insurance Company in Illinois. One suit claims breach of contract and fraud due to the alleged underpayment of medical claims arising from the use of a purportedly biased provider fee pricing system. A motion for class certification has been filed and briefed. The second suit currently alleges breach of contract arising from the alleged use of preferred provider organizations to reduce medical provider fees covered by the medical claims portion of the insurance policy. A motion for class certification has been filed and briefed. A third putative nationwide class action relating to the payment of medical providers, has been filed against Metropolitan Property and Casualty Insurance Company in federal court in New Jersey. The Company is vigorously defending against the claims in these matters.
Shipley v. St. Paul Fire and Marine Ins. Co. and Metropolitan Property and Casualty Ins. Co. (Ill. Cir. Ct., Madison County, filed February 26 and July 2, 2003).  
Innovative Physical Therapy, Inc. v. MetLife Auto & Home, et ano (D. N.J., filed November 12, 2007) 
 
Regulatory Matters
 
The Company receives and responds to subpoenas or other inquiries from state regulators, including state insurance commissioners; state attorneys general or other state governmental authorities; federal regulators, including the SEC; federal governmental authorities, including congressional committees; and the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority seeking a broad range of information. The issues involved in information requests and regulatory matters vary widely. Certain regulators have requested information and documents regarding contingent commission payments to brokers, the Company's awareness of any "sham" bids for business, bids and quotes that the Company submitted to potential customers, incentive agreements entered into with brokers, or compensation paid to intermediaries. Regulators also have requested information relating to market timing and late trading of mutual funds and variable insurance products and, generally, the marketing of products. The Company has received a subpoena from the
Table of Contents
 
 
 
Office of the U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of California asking for documents regarding the insurance broker Universal Life Resources. The Company has been cooperating fully with these inquiries.
 
In 2005, MSI received a notice from the Illinois Department of Securities asserting possible violations of the Illinois Securities Act in connection with sales of a former affiliate's mutual funds. A response has been submitted and in January 2008, MSI received notice of the commencement of an administrative action by the Illinois Department of Securities. MSI intends to vigorously defend against the claims in this matter.
 
Other Litigation
 
  In this multi-district proceeding, plaintiffs filed a class action complaint consolidating claims from several separate actions that had been filed in or transferred to the District of New Jersey in 2004 and 2005. The consolidated complaint alleged that the Holding Company, MLIC, several non-affiliated insurance companies and several insurance brokers violated the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act ("RICO"), the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 ("ERISA"), and antitrust laws and committed other misconduct in the context of providing insurance to employee benefit plans and to persons who participate in such employee benefit plans. In August and September 2007, the court issued orders granting defendants' motions to dismiss with prejudice the federal antitrust and the RICO claims. In January 2008, the court issued an order granting defendants' summary judgment motion on the ERISA claims, and in February 2008, the court dismissed the remaining state law claims on jurisdictional grounds. Plaintiffs have filed a notice of appeal of the court's decisions. A putative class action alleging that the Holding Company and other non-affiliated defendants violated state laws was transferred to the District of New Jersey but was not consolidated with other related actions. Plaintiffs' motion to remand this action to state court in Florida is pending.
In Re Ins. Brokerage Antitrust Litig. (D. N.J., filed February 24, 2005).
 
  The American Dental Association and three individual providers have sued the Holding Company, MLIC and other non-affiliated insurance companies in a putative class action lawsuit. The plaintiffs purport to represent a nationwide class of providers who allege that their claims are being wrongfully reduced by downcoding, bundling, and the improper use and programming of software. The complaint alleges federal racketeering and various state law theories of liability. The district court has granted in part and denied in part the Company's motion to dismiss. The plaintiffs filed an amended complaint, and the Company filed another motion to dismiss. The court has issued a tag-along order, related to a medical managed care trial, which has stayed the lawsuit.
The American Dental Association, et al. v. MetLife Inc., et al. (S.D. Fla., filed May 19, 2003).
in-network
 
  A putative class action complaint was filed against MLIC and MSI. Plaintiffs assert legal theories of violations of the federal securities laws and violations of state laws with respect to the sale of certain proprietary products by the Company's agency distribution group. Plaintiffs seek rescission, compensatory damages, interest, punitive damages and attorneys' fees and expenses. The Company is vigorously defending against the claims in this matter.
Thomas, et al. v. Metropolitan Life Ins. Co., et al. (W.D. Okla., filed January 31, 2007).
 
MLIC also has been named as a defendant in a number of welding and mixed dust lawsuits filed in various state and federal courts. The Company is continuing to vigorously defend against these claims.
 
Summary
 
Putative or certified class action litigation and other litigation and claims and assessments against the Company, in addition to those discussed previously and those otherwise provided for in the Company's consolidated financial statements, have arisen in the course of the Company's business, including, but not limited to, in connection with its activities as an insurer, employer, investor, investment advisor and taxpayer. Further, state insurance regulatory authorities and other federal and state authorities regularly make inquiries and conduct investigations concerning the Company's compliance with applicable insurance and other laws and regulations.
 
It is not possible to predict the ultimate outcome of all pending investigations and legal proceedings or provide reasonable ranges of potential losses, except as noted previously in connection with specific matters. In some of the
Table of Contents
 
 
 
matters referred to previously, very large indeterminate amounts, including punitive and treble damages, are sought. Although in light of these considerations it is possible that an adverse outcome in certain cases could have a material adverse effect upon the Company's financial position, based on information currently known by the Company's management, in its opinion, the outcomes of such pending investigations and legal proceedings are not likely to have such an effect. However, given the large indeterminate amounts sought in certain of these matters and the inherent unpredictability of litigation, it is possible that an adverse outcome in certain matters could, from time to time, have a material adverse effect on the Company's consolidated net income or cash flows in particular quarterly or annual periods.
and/or
and/or
 
Insolvency Assessments
 
Most of the jurisdictions in which the Company is admitted to transact business require insurers doing business within the jurisdiction to participate in guaranty associations, which are organized to pay contractual benefits owed pursuant to insurance policies issued by impaired, insolvent or failed insurers. These associations levy assessments, up to prescribed limits, on all member insurers in a particular state on the basis of the proportionate share of the premiums written by member insurers in the lines of business in which the impaired, insolvent or failed insurer engaged. Some states permit member insurers to recover assessments paid through full or partial premium tax offsets. Assets and liabilities held for insolvency assessments are as follows:
 
 
 
 
Assessments levied against the Company were ($1) million, $2 million and $4 million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.
 
Impact of Hurricanes
 
On August 29, 2005, Hurricane Katrina made landfall in the states of Louisiana, Mississippi and Alabama, causing catastrophic damage to these coastal regions. MetLife's cumulative gross losses from Hurricane Katrina were $314 million, $333 million and $335 million at December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively, primarily arising from the Company's homeowners business. During the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, the Company recognized net losses, net of income tax and reinsurance recoverables and including reinstatement premiums and other reinsurance-related premium adjustments related to the catastrophe, of ($13) million, ($2) million and $134 million, respectively.
 
On October 24, 2005, Hurricane Wilma made landfall across the state of Florida. MetLife's cumulative gross losses from Hurricane Wilma were $66 million, $64 million and $57 million at December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively, primarily arising from the Company's homeowners and automobile businesses. During the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, the Company's Auto & Home segment recognized net losses, net of income tax
Table of Contents
 
 
 
and reinsurance recoverables, of ($3) million and $32 million, respectively, related to Hurricane Wilma. The Company did not recognize any loss during the year ended December 31, 2007, related to Hurricane Wilma.
 
Additional hurricane-related losses may be recorded in future periods as claims are received from insureds and claims to reinsurers are processed. Reinsurance recoveries are dependent upon the continued creditworthiness of the reinsurers, which may be affected by their other reinsured losses in connection with Hurricanes Katrina and Wilma and otherwise. In addition, lawsuits, including purported class actions, have been filed in Louisiana and Mississippi challenging denial of claims for damages caused to property during Hurricane Katrina. Metropolitan Property and Casualty Insurance Company is a named party in some of these lawsuits. In addition, rulings in cases in which Metropolitan Property and Casualty Insurance Company is not a party may affect interpretation of its policies. Metropolitan Property and Casualty Insurance Company intends to vigorously defend these matters. However, any adverse rulings could result in an increase in the Company's hurricane-related claim exposure and losses. Based on information known by management, it does not believe that additional claim losses resulting from Hurricane Katrina will have a material adverse impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements.
 
Argentina
 
The Argentinean economic, regulatory and legal environment, including interpretations of laws and regulations by regulators and courts, is uncertain. Potential legal or governmental actions related to pension reform, fiduciary responsibilities, performance guarantees and tax rulings could adversely affect the results of the Company. Upon acquisition of Citigroup's insurance operations in Argentina, the Company established insurance liabilities, most significantly death and disability policy liabilities, based upon its interpretation of Argentinean law at the time and the Company's best estimate of its obligations under such law. In 2006, a decree was issued by the Argentine Government regarding the taxability of pesification-related gains resulting in the reduction of certain tax liabilities. In 2007, pension reform legislation in Argentina was enacted which changed the Company's obligations and resulted in the elimination of the death and disability liabilities and the establishment of a liability for servicing obligations.
 
Commitments
 
Leases
 
In accordance with industry practice, certain of the Company's income from lease agreements with retail tenants are contingent upon the level of the tenants' sales revenues. Additionally, the Company, as lessee, has entered into various lease and sublease agreements for office space, data processing and other equipment. Future minimum rental and sublease income, and minimum gross rental payments relating to these lease agreements are as follows:
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
Commitments to Fund Partnership Investments
 
The Company makes commitments to fund partnership investments in the normal course of business. The amounts of these unfunded commitments were $5.2 billion and $3.0 billion at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The Company anticipates that these amounts will be invested in partnerships over the next five years.
 
Mortgage Loan Commitments
 
The Company commits to lend funds under mortgage loan commitments. The amounts of these mortgage loan commitments were $4.0 billion at both December 31, 2007 and 2006.
 
Commitments to Fund Bank Credit Facilities, Bridge Loans and Private Corporate Bond Investments
 
The Company commits to lend funds under bank credit facilities, bridge loans and private corporate bond investments. The amounts of these unfunded commitments were $1.2 billion and $1.9 billion at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively.
 
Guarantees
 
In the normal course of its business, the Company has provided certain indemnities, guarantees and commitments to third parties pursuant to which it may be required to make payments now or in the future. In the context of acquisition, disposition, investment and other transactions, the Company has provided indemnities and guarantees, including those related to tax, environmental and other specific liabilities, and other indemnities and guarantees that are triggered by, among other things, breaches of representations, warranties or covenants provided by the Company. In addition, in the normal course of business, the Company provides indemnifications to counterparties in contracts with triggers similar to the foregoing, as well as for certain other liabilities, such as third party lawsuits. These obligations are often subject to time limitations that vary in duration, including contractual limitations and those that arise by operation of law, such as applicable statutes of limitation. In some cases, the maximum potential obligation under the indemnities and guarantees is subject to a contractual limitation ranging from less than $1 million to $800 million, with a cumulative maximum of $2.3 billion, while in other cases such limitations are not specified or applicable. Since certain of these obligations are not subject to limitations, the Company does not believe that it is possible to determine the maximum potential amount that could become due under these guarantees in the future.
 
In addition, the Company indemnifies its directors and officers as provided in its charters and by-laws. Also, the Company indemnifies its agents for liabilities incurred as a result of their representation of the Company's interests. Since these indemnities are generally not subject to limitation with respect to duration or amount, the Company does not believe that it is possible to determine the maximum potential amount that could become due under these indemnities in the future.
 
The Company has also guaranteed minimum investment returns on certain international retirement funds in accordance with local laws. Since these guarantees are not subject to limitation with respect to duration or amount, the Company does not believe that it is possible to determine the maximum potential amount that could become due under these guarantees in the future.
 
During the year ended December 31, 2007, the Company recorded a $1 million liability with respect to a guarantee previously provided to MLII, a former subsidiary. The Company's recorded liabilities at December 31, 2007 and 2006 for indemnities, guarantees and commitments were $6 million and $5 million, respectively.
 
In connection with synthetically created investment transactions, the Company writes credit default swap obligations that generally require payment of principal outstanding due in exchange for the referenced credit obligation. If a credit event, as defined by the contract, occurs the Company's maximum amount at risk, assuming
Table of Contents
 
 
 
the value of the referenced credits becomes worthless, was $1.7 billion at December 31, 2007. The credit default swaps expire at various times during the next ten years.
 
 
Pension and Other Postretirement Benefit Plans
 
The Subsidiaries sponsor administer various qualified and non-qualified defined benefit pension plans and other postretirement employee benefit plans covering employees and sales representatives who meet specified eligibility requirements. Pension benefits are provided utilizing either a traditional formula or cash balance formula. The traditional formula provides benefits based upon years of credited service and either final average or career average earnings. The cash balance formula utilizes hypothetical or notional accounts which credit participants with benefits equal to a percentage of eligible pay as well as earnings credits, determined annually based upon the average annual rate of interest on U.S. Treasury securities, for each account balance. As of December 31, 2007, virtually all of the Subsidiaries' obligations have been calculated using the traditional formula. The non-qualified pension plans provide supplemental benefits, in excess of amounts permitted by governmental agencies, to certain executive level employees.
and/or
30-year
 
The Subsidiaries also provide certain postemployment benefits and certain postretirement medical and life insurance benefits for retired employees. Employees of the Subsidiaries who were hired prior to 2003 (or, in certain cases, rehired during or after 2003) and meet age and service criteria while working for one of the Subsidiaries, may become eligible for these other postretirement benefits, at various levels, in accordance with the applicable plans. Virtually all retirees, or their beneficiaries, contribute a portion of the total cost of postretirement medical benefits. Employees hired after 2003 are not eligible for any employer subsidy for postretirement medical benefits.
 
In connection with the acquisition of Travelers, the employees of Travelers and any other Citigroup affiliate in the United States who became employees of certain Subsidiaries in connection with that acquisition (including those who remained employees of companies acquired in that acquisition) will be credited with service recognized by Citigroup for purposes of determining eligibility and vesting under the Plan with respect to benefits earned under the Plan subsequent to the closing date of the acquisition. Neither the Holding Company nor its subsidiaries assumed an obligation for benefits earned under defined benefit plans of Citigroup or Travelers prior to the acquisition.
 
As described more fully in Note 1, effective December 31, 2006, the Company adopted SFAS 158. The adoption of SFAS 158 required the recognition of the funded status of defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans and eliminated the additional minimum pension liability provision of SFAS 87. The Company's additional minimum pension liability was $78 million, and the intangible asset was $12 million, at December 31, 2005. The excess of the additional minimum pension liability over the intangible asset of $66 million, $41 million net of income tax, was recorded as a reduction of accumulated other comprehensive income. At December 31, 2006, immediately prior to adopting SFAS 158, the Company's additional minimum pension liability was $92 million. The additional minimum pension liability of $59 million, net of income tax of $33 million, was recorded as a reduction of accumulated other comprehensive income. The change in the additional minimum pension liability of $18 million, net of income tax, was reflected as a component of comprehensive income for the year ended December 31, 2006. Upon adoption of SFAS 158, the Company eliminated the additional minimum pension liability and recognized as an adjustment to accumulated other comprehensive income, net of income tax, those amounts of actuarial gains and losses, prior service costs and credits, and the remaining net transition asset or obligation that had not yet been included in net periodic benefit cost at the date of adoption.
Table of Contents
 
 
 
The following table summarizes the adjustments to the December 31, 2006 consolidated balance sheet as a result of recognizing the funded status of the defined benefit plans:
 
 
A December 31 measurement date is used for all of the Subsidiaries' defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit plans.
Table of Contents
 
 
 
Obligations, Funded Status and Net Periodic Benefit Costs
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
The aggregate projected benefit obligation and aggregate fair value of plan assets for the pension plans were as follows:
 
 
The accumulated benefit obligation for all defined benefit pension plans was $5,309 million and $5,472 million at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively.
 
Information for pension plans with an accumulated benefit obligation in excess of plan assets is as follows:
 
 
Information for pension and other postretirement plans with a projected benefit obligation in excess of plan assets is as follows:
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
The components of net periodic benefit cost and other changes in plan assets and benefit obligations recognized in other comprehensive income were as follows:
 
 
Included within other comprehensive income are other changes in plan assets and benefit obligations associated with pension benefits of ($477) million and other postretirement benefits of ($404) million for an aggregate reduction in other comprehensive income of ($881) million before income tax and $563 million, net of income tax and minority interest.
 
The estimated net actuarial losses and prior service cost for the pension plans that will be amortized from accumulated other comprehensive income into net periodic benefit cost over the next year are both $14 million.
 
The estimated net actuarial gains and prior service credit for the defined benefit other postretirement plans that will be amortized from accumulated other comprehensive income into net periodic benefit cost over the next year are less than $1 million and $37 million, respectively.
Table of Contents
 
 
 
In 2004, the Company adopted the guidance in to account for future subsidies to be received under the Prescription Drug Act. The Company began receiving these subsidies during 2006. A summary of the reduction to the APBO and related reduction to the components of net periodic other postretirement benefit cost is as follows:
FSP 106-2,
Accounting and Disclosure Requirements Related to the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003
("FSP 106-2"),
 
 
 
The Company received subsidies of $10 million and $8 million for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively.
 
Assumptions
 
Assumptions used in determining benefit obligations were as follows:
 
 
Assumptions used in determining net periodic benefit cost were as follows:
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
The discount rate is determined annually based on the yield, measured on a yield to worst basis, of a hypothetical portfolio constructed of high quality debt instruments available on the valuation date, which would provide the necessary future cash flows to pay the aggregate projected benefit obligation when due.
 
The expected rate of return on plan assets is based on anticipated performance of the various asset sectors in which the plan invests, weighted by target allocation percentages. Anticipated future performance is based on long-term historical returns of the plan assets by sector, adjusted for the Subsidiaries' long-term expectations on the performance of the markets. While the precise expected return derived using this approach will fluctuate from year to year, the Subsidiaries' policy is to hold this long-term assumption constant as long as it remains within reasonable tolerance from the derived rate.
 
The weighted average expected return on plan assets for use in that plan's valuation in 2008 is currently anticipated to be 8.25% for pension benefits and postretirement medical benefits and 6.25% for postretirement life benefits.
 
The assumed healthcare cost trend rates used in measuring the APBO and net periodic benefit cost were as follows:
 
 
Assumed healthcare cost trend rates may have a significant effect on the amounts reported for healthcare plans. A one-percentage point change in assumed healthcare cost trend rates would have the following effects:
 
 
Plan Assets
 
The Subsidiaries have issued group annuity and life insurance contracts supporting approximately 98% of all pension and other postretirement benefit plans assets.
 
The account values of the group annuity and life insurance contracts issued by the Subsidiaries and held as assets of the pension and other postretirement benefit plans were $7,565 million and $7,321 million as of December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The majority of such account values are held in separate accounts established by the Subsidiaries. Total revenue from these contracts recognized in the consolidated statements of income was $28 million, $29 million and $28 million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively, and includes policy charges, net investment income from investments backing the contracts and administrative fees. Total investment income, including realized and unrealized gains and losses, credited to the account balances were $603 million, $818 million and $460 million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The terms of these contracts are consistent in all material respects with those the Subsidiaries offer to unaffiliated parties that are similarly situated.
Table of Contents
 
 
 
The weighted-average allocations of pension plan and other postretirement benefit plan assets were as follows:
 
 
The weighted-average target allocations of pension plan and other postretirement benefit plan assets for 2008 are as follows:
 
 
Target allocations of assets are determined with the objective of maximizing returns and minimizing volatility of net assets through adequate asset diversification. Adjustments are made to target allocations based on an assessment of the impact of economic factors and market conditions.
 
Cash Flows
 
It is the Subsidiaries' practice to make contributions to the qualified pension plans to comply with minimum funding requirements of ERISA. In accordance with such practice, no contributions were required for the years ended December 31, 2007 or 2006. No contributions will be required for 2008. The Subsidiaries did not make discretionary contributions to the qualified pension plans during the year ended December 31, 2007 and made contributions of $350 million during the year ended December 31, 2006. The Subsidiaries expect to make additional discretionary contributions of $150 million in 2008.
 
Benefit payments due under the non-qualified pension plans are funded from the Subsidiaries' general assets as they become due under the provision of the plans. These payments totaled $50 million and $38 million for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. These payments are expected to be at approximately the same level in 2008.
 
Other postretirement benefits represent a non-vested, non-guaranteed obligation of the Subsidiaries and current regulations do not require specific funding levels for these benefits. While the Subsidiaries have partially funded such plans in advance, it has been the Subsidiaries' practice to primarily use their general assets, net of participant's contributions, to pay postretirement medical claims as they come due in lieu of utilizing plan assets. Total payments equaled $173 million and $152 million for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively.
 
The Subsidiaries' expect to make contributions of $116 million, net of participant's contributions, towards the other postretirement plan obligations in 2008. As noted previously, the Subsidiaries expect to receive subsidies under the Prescription Drug Act to partially offset such payments.
Table of Contents
 
 
 
Gross benefit payments for the next ten years, which reflect expected future service where appropriate, and gross subsidies to be received under the Prescription Drug Act are expected to be as follows:
 
 
Savings and Investment Plans
 
The Subsidiaries sponsor savings and investment plans for substantially all employees under which a portion of employee contributions are matched. The Subsidiaries contributed $76 million, $80 million and $76 million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.
 
 
Preferred Stock
 
Issuances
 
In September 1999, the Holding Company adopted a stockholder rights plan (the "rights plan") under which each outstanding share of common stock issued between April 4, 2000 and the distribution date (as defined in the rights plan) will be coupled with a stockholder right. Each right will entitle the holder to purchase one one-hundredth of a share of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock. Each one one-hundredth of a share of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock will have economic and voting terms equivalent to one share of common stock. Until it is exercised, the right itself will not entitle the holder thereof to any rights as a stockholder, including the right to receive dividends or to vote at stockholder meetings.
 
Stockholder rights are not exercisable until the distribution date, and will expire at the close of business on April 4, 2010, unless earlier redeemed or exchanged by the Holding Company. The rights plan is designed to protect stockholders in the event of unsolicited offers to acquire the Holding Company and other coercive takeover tactics.
 
In connection with financing the acquisition of Travelers on July 1, 2005, which is described in Note 2, the Holding Company issued preferred shares as follows:
 
In June 2005, the Holding Company issued 24 million shares of Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series A (the "Series A preferred shares") with a $0.01 par value per share, and a liquidation preference of $25 per share, for aggregate proceeds of $600 million.
 
In June 2005, the Holding Company issued 60 million shares of 6.50% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series B (the "Series B preferred shares"), with a $0.01 par value per share, and a liquidation preference of $25 per share, for aggregate proceeds of $1.5 billion.
 
The Series A and Series B preferred shares (the "Preferred Shares") rank senior to the common stock with respect to dividends and liquidation rights. Dividends on the Preferred Shares are not cumulative. Holders of the Preferred Shares will be entitled to receive dividend payments only when, as and if declared by the Holding Company's Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee of the board. If dividends are declared on the Series A preferred shares, they will be payable quarterly, in arrears, at an annual rate of the greater of: (i) 1.00% above LIBOR on the related
3-month
Table of Contents
 
 
 
LIBOR determination date; or (ii) 4.00%. Any dividends declared on the Series B preferred shares will be payable quarterly, in arrears, at an annual fixed rate of 6.50%. Accordingly, in the event that dividends are not declared on the Preferred Shares for payment on any dividend payment date, then those dividends will cease to accrue and be payable. If a dividend is not declared before the dividend payment date, the Holding Company has no obligation to pay dividends accrued for that dividend period whether or not dividends are declared and paid in future periods. No dividends may, however, be paid or declared on the Holding Company's common stock  or any other securities ranking junior to the Preferred Shares  unless the full dividends for the latest completed dividend period on all Preferred Shares, and any parity stock, have been declared and paid or provided for.
 
The Holding Company is prohibited from declaring dividends on the Preferred Shares if it fails to meet specified capital adequacy, net income and shareholders' equity levels. In addition, under Federal Reserve Board policy, the Holding Company may not be able to pay dividends if it does not earn sufficient operating income.
 
The Preferred Shares do not have voting rights except in certain circumstances where the dividends have not been paid for an equivalent of six or more dividend payment periods whether or not those periods are consecutive. Under such circumstances, the holders of the Preferred Shares have certain voting rights with respect to members of the Board of Directors of the Holding Company.
 
The Preferred Shares are not subject to any mandatory redemption, sinking fund, retirement fund, purchase fund or similar provisions. The Preferred Shares are redeemable, but not prior to September 15, 2010. On and after that date, subject to regulatory approval, the Preferred Shares will be redeemable at the Holding Company's option in whole or in part, at a redemption price of $25 per Preferred Share, plus declared and unpaid dividends.
 
In connection with the offering of the Preferred Shares, the Holding Company incurred $56.8 million of issuance costs which have been recorded as a reduction of additional paid-in capital.
 
Dividends
 
Information on the declaration, record and payment dates, as well as per share and aggregate dividend amounts, for the Preferred Shares is as follows:
 
 
See Note 25 for further information.
Table of Contents
 
 
 
Common Stock
 
Repurchases
 
In October 2004, the Company's Board of Directors authorized a $1 billion common stock repurchase program. In February 2007, the Company's Board of Directors authorized an additional $1 billion common stock repurchase program. In September 2007, the Company's Board of Directors authorized an additional $1 billion common stock repurchase program which began after the completion of the $1 billion common stock repurchase program authorized in February 2007. In January 2008, the Company's Board of Directors authorized an additional $1 billion common stock repurchase program, which began after the completion of the September 2007 program. (See Note 25). Under these authorizations, the Company may purchase its common stock from the MetLife Policyholder Trust, in the open market (including pursuant to the terms of a pre-set trading plan meeting the requirements of under the Exchange Act) and in privately negotiated transactions.
Rule 10b5-1
 
The Company has entered into the following accelerated common stock repurchase agreements:
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
 
The Company also repurchased 3.1 million and 4.6 million shares through open market purchases for $200 million and $268 million, respectively, during the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively.
 
Cumulatively, the Company repurchased 26.6 million and 8.6 million shares of its common stock for $1.7 billion and $500 million during the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The Company did not repurchase any shares of its common stock during the year ended December 31, 2005. During the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, 3.9 million, 3.1 million and 25.0 million shares of common stock were issued from treasury stock for $172 million, $102 million and $819 million, respectively, of which 22.4 million shares with a market value of $1 billion were issued in connection with the acquisition of Travelers on July 1, 2005. See Note 2.
 
At December 31, 2006 the Company had $216 million remaining on the October 2004 common stock repurchase program which was subsequently reduced by $8 million to $208 million after the February 2007 cash adjustment to the December 2006 accelerated common stock repurchase agreement. The February 2007 stock repurchase program authorization was fully utilized during 2007. At December 31, 2007, $511 million remained on the Company's September 2007 common stock repurchase program. The $511 million remaining on the September 2007 common stock repurchase program was reduced by $450 million to $61 million upon settlement of the accelerated stock repurchase agreement executed during December 2007 but for which no settlement occurred until January 2008. Subsequent to the January 2008 authorization, the amount remaining under these repurchase programs was $1,061 million. After execution of the accelerated stock repurchase agreement in February 2008 and certain open market purchases as more fully described in Note 25, the Company's remaining authorization is $261 million.
 
Future common stock repurchases will be dependent upon several factors, including the Company's capital position, its financial strength and credit ratings, general market conditions and the price of the Company's common stock.
 
Stock Purchase Contracts
 
See Note 13 regarding stock purchase contracts issued by the Company on June 21, 2005 in connection with the issuance of the common equity units.
 
Dividends
 
The table below presents declaration, record and payment dates, as well as per share and aggregate dividend amounts, for the common stock:
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
Stock-Based Compensation Plans
 
Overview
 
As described more fully in Note 1, effective January 1, 2006, the Company adopted SFAS 123(r), using the modified prospective transition method. The adoption of SFAS 123(r) did not have a significant impact on the Company's financial position or results of operations.
 
Description of Plans
 
The MetLife, Inc. 2000 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended (the "Stock Incentive Plan"), authorized the granting of awards in the form of options to buy shares of the Company's common stock ("Stock Options") that either qualify as incentive Stock Options under Section 422A of the Internal Revenue Code or are non-qualified. The MetLife, Inc. 2000 Directors Stock Plan, as amended (the "Directors Stock Plan"), authorized the granting of awards in the form of the Company's common stock, non-qualified Stock Options, or a combination of the foregoing to outside Directors of the Company. Under the MetLife, Inc. 2005 Stock and Incentive Compensation Plan, as amended (the "2005 Stock Plan"), awards granted may be in the form of Stock Options, Stock Appreciation Rights, Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units, Performance Shares or Performance Share Units, Cash-Based Awards, and Stock-Based Awards (each as defined in the 2005 Stock Plan). Under the MetLife, Inc. 2005 Non-Management Director Stock Compensation Plan (the "2005 Directors Stock Plan"), awards granted may be in the form of non-qualified Stock Options, Stock Appreciation Rights, Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units, or Stock-Based Awards (each as defined in the 2005 Directors Stock Plan). The Stock Incentive Plan, Directors Stock Plan, 2005 Stock Plan, the 2005 Directors Stock Plan and the LTPCP, as described below, are hereinafter collectively referred to as the "Incentive Plans."
 
The aggregate number of shares reserved for issuance under the 2005 Stock Plan and the LTPCP is 68,000,000, plus those shares available but not utilized under the Stock Incentive Plan and those shares utilized under the Stock Incentive Plan that are recovered due to forfeiture of Stock Options. Additional shares carried forward from the Stock Incentive Plan and available for issuance under the 2005 Stock Plan were 12,506,003 as of December 31, 2007. There were no shares carried forward from the Directors Stock Plan. Each share issued under the 2005 Stock Plan in connection with a Stock Option or Stock Appreciation Right reduces the number of shares remaining for issuance under that plan by one, and each share issued under the 2005 Stock Plan in connection with awards other than Stock Options or Stock Appreciation Rights reduces the number of shares remaining for issuance under that plan by 1.179 shares. The number of shares reserved for issuance under the 2005 Directors Stock Plan are 2,000,000. As of December 31, 2007, the aggregate number of shares remaining available for issuance pursuant to the 2005 Stock Plan and the 2005 Directors Stock Plan were 60,862,366 and 1,918,170, respectively.
 
Stock Option exercises and other stock-based awards to employees settled in shares are satisfied through the issuance of shares held in treasury by the Company. Under the current authorized share repurchase program, as described previously, sufficient treasury shares exist to satisfy foreseeable obligations under the Incentive Plans.
 
Compensation expense related to awards under the Incentive Plans is recognized based on the number of awards expected to vest, which represents the awards granted less expected forfeitures over the life of the award, as estimated at the date of grant. Unless a material deviation from the assumed rate is observed during the term in which the awards are expensed, any adjustment necessary to reflect differences in actual experience is recognized in the period the award becomes payable or exercisable. Compensation expense of $145 million, $144 million and $120 million, and income tax benefits of $51 million, $50 million and $42 million, related to the Incentive Plans was recognized for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Compensation expense is principally related to the issuance of Stock Options, Performance Shares and LTPCP arrangements.
 
As described in Note 1, the Company changed its policy prospectively for recognizing expense for stock-based awards to retirement eligible employees. Had the Company continued to recognize expense over the stated requisite service period, compensation expense related to the Incentive Plans would have been $118 million, $116 million
Table of Contents
 
 
 
and $120 million, rather than $145 million, $144 million and $120 million, for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Had the Company applied the policy of recognizing expense related to stock-based compensation over the shorter of the requisite service period or the period to attainment of retirement eligibility for awards granted prior to January 1, 2006, pro forma compensation expense would have been $118 million, $120 million and $122 million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.
 
Stock Options
 
All Stock Options granted had an exercise price equal to the closing price of the Company's common stock as reported on the New York Stock Exchange on the date of grant, and have a maximum term of ten years. Certain Stock Options granted under the Stock Incentive Plan and the 2005 Stock Plan have or will become exercisable over a three year period commencing with the date of grant, while other Stock Options have or will become exercisable three years after the date of grant. Stock Options issued under the Directors Stock Plan were exercisable immediately. The date at which any Stock Option issued under the 2005 Directors Stock Plan becomes exercisable would be determined at the time such Stock Option is granted.
 
A summary of the activity related to Stock Options for the year ended December 31, 2007 is presented below. The aggregate intrinsic value was computed using the closing share price on December 31, 2007 of $61.62 and December 29, 2006 of $59.01, as applicable.
 
 
Prior to January 1, 2005, the Black-Scholes model was used to determine the fair value of Stock Options granted and recognized in the financial statements or as reported in the pro forma disclosure which follows. The fair value of Stock Options issued on or after January 1, 2005 was estimated on the date of grant using a binomial lattice model. The Company made this change because lattice models produce more accurate option values due to the ability to incorporate assumptions about grantee exercise behavior resulting from changes in the price of the underlying shares. In addition, lattice models allow for changes in critical assumptions over the life of the option in comparison to closed-form models like Black-Scholes, which require single-value assumptions at the time of grant.
 
The Company used daily historical volatility since the inception of trading when calculating Stock Option values using the Black-Scholes model. In conjunction with the change to the binomial lattice model, the Company began estimating expected future volatility based upon an analysis of historical prices of the Holding Company's common stock and call options on that common stock traded on the open market. The Company uses a weighted-average of the implied volatility for publicly traded call options with the longest remaining maturity nearest to the money as of each valuation date and the historical volatility, calculated using monthly closing prices of the Holding
Table of Contents
 
 
 
Company's common stock. The Company chose a monthly measurement interval for historical volatility as it believes this better depicts the nature of employee option exercise decisions being based on longer-term trends in the price of the underlying shares rather than on daily price movements.
 
The risk-free rate is based on observed interest rates for instruments with maturities similar to the expected term of the Stock Options. Whereas the Black-Scholes model requires a single spot rate for instruments with a term matching the expected life of the option at the valuation date, the binomial lattice model allows for the use of different rates for each year over the contractual term of the option. The table below presents the full range of imputed forward rates for U.S. Treasury Strips that was used in the binomial lattice model over the contractual term of all Stock Options granted in the period.
 
Dividend yield is determined based on historical dividend distributions compared to the price of the underlying common stock as of the valuation date and held constant over the life of the Stock Option.
 
Use of the Black-Scholes model requires an input of the expected life of the Stock Options, or the average number of years before Stock Options will be exercised or expired. The Company estimated expected life using the historical average years to exercise or cancellation and average remaining years outstanding for vested Stock Options. Alternatively, the binomial model used by the Company incorporates the contractual term of the Stock Options and then considers expected exercise behavior and a post-vesting termination rate, or the rate at which vested options are exercised or expire prematurely due to termination of employment, to derive an expected life. The post-vesting termination rate is determined from actual historical exercise and expiration activity under the Incentive Plans. Exercise behavior in the binomial lattice model used by the Company is expressed using an exercise multiple, which reflects the ratio of exercise price to the strike price of Stock Options granted at which holders of the Stock Options are expected to exercise. The exercise multiple is derived from actual historical exercise activity.
 
The following weighted average assumptions, with the exception of risk-free rate, which is expressed as a range, were used to determine the fair value of Stock Options issued during the:
 
 
Compensation expense related to Stock Option awards expected to vest and granted prior to January 1, 2006 is recognized ratably over the requisite service period, which equals the vesting term. Compensation expense related to Stock Option awards expected to vest and granted on or after January 1, 2006 is recognized ratably over the requisite service period or the period to retirement eligibility, if shorter. Compensation expense of $55 million, $56 million and $50 million related to Stock Options was recognized for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.
Table of Contents
 
 
 
Had compensation expense for grants awarded prior to January 1, 2003 been determined based on the fair value at the date of grant rather than the intrinsic value method, the Company's earnings and earnings per common share amounts would have been reduced to the following pro forma amounts for the following:
 
 
As of December 31, 2007, there were $41 million of total unrecognized compensation costs related to Stock Options. It is expected that these costs will be recognized over a weighted average period of 1.70 years.
 
The following is a summary of Stock Option exercise activity for the:
 
 
Performance Shares
 
Beginning in 2005, certain members of management were awarded Performance Shares under (and as defined in) the 2005 Stock Plan. Participants are awarded an initial target number of Performance Shares with the final number of Performance Shares payable being determined by the product of the initial target multiplied by a factor of 0.0 to 2.0. The factor applied is based on measurements of the Company's performance with respect to: (i) the change in annual net operating earnings per share, as defined; and (ii) the proportionate total shareholder return, as defined, with reference to the three-year performance period relative to other companies in the S&P Insurance Index with reference to the same three-year period. Performance Share awards will normally vest in their entirety at the end of the three-year performance period (subject to certain contingencies) and will be payable entirely in shares of the Company's common stock.
Table of Contents
 
 
 
The following is a summary of Performance Share activity for the year ended December 31, 2007:
 
 
Performance Share amounts above represent aggregate initial target awards and do not reflect potential increases or decreases resulting from the final performance factor to be determined at the end of the respective performance period. As of December 31, 2007, the three year performance period for the 2005 Performance Share grants was completed. Included in the immediately preceding table are 965,525 outstanding Performance Shares to which the final performance factor will be applied. The calculation of the performance factor is expected to be finalized during the second quarter of 2008 after all data necessary to perform the calculation is publicly available.
 
Performance Share awards are accounted for as equity awards but are not credited with dividend-equivalents for actual dividends paid on the Holding Company's common stock during the performance period. Accordingly, the fair value of Performance Shares is based upon the closing price of the Holding Company's common stock on the date of grant, reduced by the present value of estimated dividends to be paid on that stock during the performance period.
 
Compensation expense related to initial Performance Shares granted prior to January 1, 2006 and expected to vest is recognized ratably during the performance period. Compensation expense related to initial Performance Shares granted on or after January 1, 2006 and expected to vest is recognized ratably over the performance period or the period to retirement eligibility, if shorter. Performance Shares expected to vest and the related compensation expenses may be further adjusted by the performance factor most likely to be achieved, as estimated by management, at the end of the performance period. Compensation expense of $90 million, $74 million and $24 million, related to Performance Shares was recognized for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.
 
As of December 31, 2007, there were $57 million of total unrecognized compensation costs related to Performance Share awards. It is expected that these costs will be recognized over a weighted average period of 1.72 years.
 
Long-Term Performance Compensation Plan
 
Prior to January 1, 2005, the Company granted stock-based compensation to certain members of management under the LTPCP. Each participant was assigned a target compensation amount (an "Opportunity Award") at the inception of the performance period with the final compensation amount determined based on the total shareholder return on the Company's common stock over the three-year performance period, subject to limited further adjustment approved by the Company's Board of Directors. Payments on the Opportunity Awards were normally payable in their entirety (subject to certain contingencies) at the end of the three-year performance period, and were paid in whole or in part with shares of the Company's common stock, as approved by the Company's Board of Directors. There were no new grants under the LTPCP during the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005.
 
A portion of each Opportunity Award under the LTPCP was settled in shares of the Holding Company's common stock while the remainder was settled in cash. The portion of the Opportunity Award settled in shares of the Holding Company's common stock was accounted for as an equity award with the fair value of the award determined based upon the closing price of the Holding Company's common stock on the date of grant. The
Table of Contents
 
 
 
compensation expense associated with the equity award, based upon the grant date fair value, was recognized into expense ratably over the respective three-year performance period. The portion of the Opportunity Award settled in cash was accounted for as a liability and was remeasured using the closing price of the Holding Company's common stock on the final day of each subsequent reporting period during the three-year performance period.
 
The final LTPCP performance period concluded during the six months ended June 30, 2007. Final Opportunity Awards in the amount of 618,375 shares of the Company's common stock and $16 million in cash were paid on April 18, 2007. No significant compensation expense related to LTPCP was recognized during the year ended December 31, 2007. Compensation expense of $14 million and $46 million, related to LTPCP Opportunity Awards was recognized for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively.
 
Statutory Equity and Income
 
Each insurance company's state of domicile imposes minimum risk-based capital ("RBC") requirements that were developed by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners ("NAIC"). The formulas for determining the amount of RBC specify various weighting factors that are applied to financial balances or various levels of activity based on the perceived degree of risk. Regulatory compliance is determined by a ratio of total adjusted capital, as defined by the NAIC, to authorized control level RBC, as defined by the NAIC. Companies below specific trigger points or ratios are classified within certain levels, each of which requires specified corrective action. Each of the Holding Company's U.S. insurance subsidiaries exceeded the minimum RBC requirements for all periods presented herein.
 
The NAIC adopted the Codification of Statutory Accounting Principles ("Codification") in 2001. Codification was intended to standardize regulatory accounting and reporting to state insurance departments. However, statutory accounting principles continue to be established by individual state laws and permitted practices. Modifications by the various state insurance departments may impact the effect of Codification on the statutory capital and surplus of MLIC and the Holding Company's other insurance subsidiaries.
 
Statutory accounting principles differ from GAAP primarily by charging policy acquisition costs to expense as incurred, establishing future policy benefit liabilities using different actuarial assumptions, reporting surplus notes as surplus instead of debt and valuing securities on a different basis.
 
In addition, certain assets are not admitted under statutory accounting principles and are charged directly to surplus. The most significant assets not admitted by the Company are net deferred income tax assets resulting from temporary differences between statutory accounting principles basis and tax basis not expected to reverse and become recoverable within a year. Further, statutory accounting principles do not give recognition to purchase accounting adjustments.
 
Statutory net income of MLIC, a New York domiciled insurer, was $2.1 billion, $1.0 billion and $2.2 billion for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Statutory capital and surplus, as filed with the Department, was $13.0 billion and $9.2 billion at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively.
 
Statutory net income of MICC, a Connecticut domiciled insurer, was $1.1 billion and $856 million for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively, and $470 million from the date of purchase, for the six month period ended December 31, 2005. Statutory capital and surplus, as filed with the Connecticut Insurance Department, was $4.2 billion and $4.1 billion at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Due to the merger of MetLife Life and Annuity Company of Connecticut with MICC, the 2006 statutory net income balance was adjusted.
 
Statutory net income of MPC, a Rhode Island domiciled insurer, was $400 million, $385 million and $289 million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Statutory capital and surplus, as filed with the Insurance Department of Rhode Island, was $1.8 billion and $1.9 billion at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively.
Table of Contents
 
 
 
Statutory net income of MTL, a Delaware domiciled insurer, was $103 million, $2.8 billion and $353 million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Statutory capital and surplus, as filed with the Delaware Insurance Department was $1.1 billion and $1.0 billion as of December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively.
 
Dividend Restrictions
 
The table below sets forth the dividends permitted to be paid by the respective insurance subsidiary without insurance regulatory approval and the respective dividends paid:
 
 
 
 
Under New York State Insurance Law, MLIC is permitted, without prior insurance regulatory clearance, to pay stockholder dividends to the Holding Company as long as the aggregate amount of all such dividends in any calendar year does not exceed the lesser of: (i) 10% of its surplus to policyholders as of the end of the immediately preceding calendar year; or (ii) its statutory net gain from operations for the immediately preceding calendar year (excluding realized capital gains). MLIC will be permitted to pay a cash dividend to the Holding Company in excess of the lesser of such two amounts only if it files notice of its intention to declare such a dividend and the amount thereof with the Superintendent and the Superintendent does not disapprove the distribution within 30 days of its filing. Under New York State Insurance Law, the Superintendent has broad discretion in determining whether the financial condition of a stock life insurance company would support the payment of such dividends to its shareholders. The New York State Department of Insurance (the "Department") has established informal guidelines for such determinations. The guidelines, among other things, focus on the insurer's overall financial condition and profitability under statutory accounting practices.
 
Under Connecticut State Insurance Law, MICC is permitted, without prior insurance regulatory clearance, to pay shareholder dividends to its parent as long as the amount of such dividends, when aggregated with all other dividends in the preceding 12 months, does not exceed the greater of: (i) 10% of its surplus to policyholders as of the end of the immediately preceding calendar year; or (ii) its statutory net gain from operations for the immediately preceding calendar year. MICC will be permitted to pay a cash dividend in excess of the greater of such two amounts only if it files notice of its declaration of such a dividend and the amount thereof with the Connecticut Commissioner of Insurance ("Commissioner") and the Commissioner does not disapprove the payment within 30 days after notice. In addition, any dividend that exceeds earned surplus (unassigned funds, reduced by 25% of unrealized appreciation in value or revaluation of assets or unrealized profits on investments) as of the last filed annual statutory statement requires insurance regulatory approval. Under Connecticut State Insurance Law, the Commissioner has broad discretion in determining whether the financial condition of a stock life insurance company would support the payment of such dividends to its shareholders. The Connecticut State Insurance Law
Table of Contents
 
 
 
requires prior approval for any dividends for a period of two years following a change in control. As a result of the acquisition of MICC by the Holding Company on July 1, 2005, under Connecticut State Insurance Law, all dividend payments by MICC through June 30, 2007 required prior approval of the Commissioner.
 
Under Delaware State Insurance Law, Metropolitan Tower Life Insurance Company ("MTL") is permitted, without prior insurance regulatory clearance, to pay a stockholder dividend to the Holding Company as long as the amount of the dividend when aggregated with all other dividends in the preceding 12 months does not exceed the greater of: (i) 10% of its surplus to policyholders as of the end of the immediately preceding calendar year; or (ii) its statutory net gain from operations for the immediately preceding calendar year (excluding realized capital gains). MTL will be permitted to pay a cash dividend to the Holding Company in excess of the greater of such two amounts only if it files notice of the declaration of such a dividend and the amount thereof with the Delaware Commissioner of Insurance (the "Delaware Commissioner") and the Delaware Commissioner does not disapprove the distribution within 30 days of its filing. In addition, any dividend that exceeds earned surplus (defined as unassigned funds) as of the last filed annual statutory statement requires insurance regulatory approval. Under Delaware State Insurance Law, the Delaware Commissioner has broad discretion in determining whether the financial condition of a stock life insurance company would support the payment of such dividends to its shareholders.
 
Under Rhode Island State Insurance Law, MPC is permitted, without prior insurance regulatory clearance, to pay a stockholder dividend to the Holding Company as long as the aggregate amount of all such dividends in any twelve-month period does not exceed the lesser of: (i) 10% of its surplus to policyholders as of the end of the immediately preceding calendar year; or (ii) net income, not including realized capital gains, for the immediately preceding calendar year. MPC will be permitted to pay a cash dividend to the Holding Company in excess of the lesser of such two amounts only if it files notice of its intention to declare such a dividend and the amount thereof with the Rhode Island Commissioner of Insurance (the "Rhode Island Commissioner") and the Rhode Island Commissioner does not disapprove the distribution within 30 days of its filing. Under Rhode Island State Insurance Code, the Rhode Island Commissioner has broad discretion in determining whether the financial condition of a stock property and casualty insurance company would support the payment of such dividends to its shareholders. Because MPC's net income for the year ended December 31, 2007 excluding net realized capital gains and dividends paid, was negative, MPC cannot pay any dividends in 2008 without regulatory approval.
Table of Contents
 
 
 
Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)
 
The following table sets forth the reclassification adjustments required for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 in other comprehensive income (loss) that are included as part of net income for the current year that have been reported as a part of other comprehensive income (loss) in the current or prior year:
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
Information on other expenses is as follows:
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
The following table presents the weighted average shares used in calculating basic earnings per common share and those used in calculating diluted earnings per common share for each income category presented below:
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
 
The unaudited quarterly results of operations for 2007 and 2006 are summarized in the table below:
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
The Company is a leading provider of insurance and other financial services with operations throughout the United States and the regions of Latin America, Europe, and Asia Pacific. Subsequent to the disposition of RGA and the elimination of the Reinsurance segment as described in Notes 2 and 23, the Company's business is divided into four operating segments: Institutional, Individual, Auto & Home, and International, as well as Corporate & Other. These segments are managed separately because they either provide different products and services, require different strategies or have different technology requirements.
 
Institutional offers a broad range of group insurance and retirement & savings products and services, including group life insurance, non-medical health insurance, such as short and long-term disability, long-term care, and dental insurance, and other insurance products and services. Individual offers a wide variety of protection and asset accumulation products, including life insurance, annuities and mutual funds. Auto & Home provides personal lines property and casualty insurance, including private passenger automobile, homeowners and personal excess liability insurance. International provides life insurance, accident and health insurance, annuities and retirement & savings products to both individuals and groups.
 
Corporate & Other contains the excess capital not allocated to the business segments, various entities, MetLife Bank and run-off entities, as well as interest expense related to the majority of the Company's outstanding debt and expenses associated with certain legal proceedings and income tax audit issues. Corporate & Other also includes the elimination of all intersegment amounts, which generally relate to intersegment loans, which bear interest rates commensurate with related borrowings, as well as intersegment transactions. The operations of RGA are also reported in Corporate & Other as discontinued operations. Additionally, the Company's asset management business, including amounts reported as discontinued operations, is included in the results of operations for Corporate & Other. See Note 23 for disclosures regarding discontinued operations, including real estate.
start-up
 
Economic capital is an internally developed risk capital model, the purpose of which is to measure the risk in the business and to provide a basis upon which capital is deployed. The economic capital model accounts for the unique and specific nature of the risks inherent in MetLife's businesses. As a part of the economic capital process, a portion of net investment income is credited to the segments based on the level of allocated equity.
Table of Contents
 
 
 
Set forth in the tables below is certain financial information with respect to the Company's segments, as well as Corporate & Other, for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005. The accounting policies of the segments are the same as those of the Company, except for the method of capital allocation and the accounting for gains (losses) from intercompany sales, which are eliminated in consolidation. The Company allocates equity to each segment based upon the economic capital model that allows the Company to effectively manage its capital. The Company evaluates the performance of each segment based upon net income excluding net investment gains (losses), net of income tax, adjustments related to net investment gains (losses), net of income tax, the impact from the cumulative effect of changes in accounting, net of income tax and discontinued operations, other than discontinued real estate, net of income tax, less preferred stock dividends. The Company allocates certain non-recurring items, such as expenses associated with certain legal proceedings, to Corporate & Other.
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
Net investment income and net investment gains (losses) are based upon the actual results of each segment's specifically identifiable asset portfolio adjusted for allocated equity. Other costs are allocated to each of the segments based upon: (i) a review of the nature of such costs; (ii) time studies analyzing the amount of employee compensation costs incurred by each segment; and (iii) cost estimates included in the Company's product pricing.
 
Revenues derived from any customer did not exceed 10% of consolidated revenues for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005. Revenues from U.S. operations were $41.9 billion, $38.6 billion and $36.5 billion for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively, which represented 89%, 90% and 91%, respectively, of consolidated revenues.
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
Real Estate
 
The Company actively manages its real estate portfolio with the objective of maximizing earnings through selective acquisitions and dispositions. Income related to real estate classified as or sold is presented in discontinued operations. These assets are carried at the lower of depreciated cost or fair value less expected disposition costs.
held-for-sale
 
The following information presents the components of income from discontinued real estate operations:
 
 
The carrying value of real estate related to discontinued operations was $181 million and $201 million at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively.
 
The following table presents the discontinued real estate operations by segment:
 
 
In the fourth quarter of 2006, the Company sold its Peter Cooper Village and Stuyvesant Town properties located in Manhattan, New York for $5.4 billion. The Peter Cooper Village and Stuyvesant Town properties together make up the largest apartment complex in Manhattan, New York totaling over 11,000 units, spread over 80 contiguous acres. The properties were owned by the Company's subsidiary, MTL. Net investment income on these properties was $73 million and $72 million for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The sale resulted in a gain of $3 billion, net of income tax.
 
In the second quarter of 2005, the Company sold its One Madison Avenue and 200 Park Avenue properties in Manhattan, New York for $918 million and $1.72 billion, respectively, resulting in gains, net of income tax, of $431 million and $762 million, respectively. Net investment income on One Madison Avenue and 200 Park Avenue was $13 million and $44 million, for the year ended December 31, 2005, respectively. In connection with the sale of the 200 Park Avenue property, the Company has retained rights to existing signage and is leasing space for associates in the property for 20 years with optional renewal periods through 2205.
Table of Contents
 
 
 
Operations
 
As more fully described in Note 2, on September 12, 2008, the Company completed a tax-free split-off of its majority-owned subsidiary, RGA. As a result of the disposition, the Reinsurance segment was eliminated (See also Note 22). RGA's assets and liabilities were reclassified to assets and liabilities of subsidiaries and its operating results were reclassified to discontinued operations in the accompanying consolidated financial statements. Interest on economic capital associated with the Reinsurance segment has been reclassified to the continuing operations of Corporate & Other.
held-for-sale
 
The following tables present the amounts related to the operations and financial position of RGA that have been combined with the discontinued real estate operations in the consolidated statements of income:
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
The operations of RGA include direct policies and reinsurance agreements with MetLife and some of its subsidiaries. These agreements are generally terminable by either party upon 90 days written notice with respect to future new business. Agreements related to existing business generally are not terminable, unless the underlying policies terminate or are recaptured. These direct policies and reinsurance agreements do not constitute significant continuing involvement by the Company with RGA. Included in continuing operations in the Company's consolidated statements of operations are amounts related to these affiliated transactions, including ceded amounts that reduced premiums and fees by $251 million, $228 million and $227 million and ceded amounts that reduced policyholder benefits and claims by $103 million, $146 million and $199 million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively, that have not been eliminated as these transactions are expected to continue after the RGA divestiture. Related amounts included in the Company's consolidated balance sheets that have not been eliminated include assets totaling $805 million and $697 million, and liabilities totaling $542 million and $380 million at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively.
 
On August 31, 2007, MetLife Australia completed the sale of its annuities and pension businesses to a third party for $25 million in cash consideration resulting in a gain upon disposal of $41 million, net of income tax, which was adjusted in the fourth quarter of 2007 for additional transaction costs. The Company reclassified the assets and
Table of Contents
 
 
 
liabilities of the annuities and pension businesses within MetLife Australia, which is reported in the International segment, to assets and liabilities of subsidiaries and the operations of the business to discontinued operations for all periods presented. Included within the assets to be sold were certain fixed maturity securities in a loss position for which the Company recognized a net investment loss on a consolidated basis of $59 million, net of income tax, for the year ended December 31, 2007, because the Company no longer had the intent to hold such securities.
held-for-sale
 
The following tables present the amounts related to the operations and financial position of MetLife Australia's annuities and pension businesses:
 
 
 
On September 29, 2005, the Company completed the sale of MetLife Indonesia to a third party, resulting in a gain upon disposal of $10 million, net of income tax. As a result of this sale, the Company recognized income from discontinued operations of $5 million, net of income tax, for the year ended December 31, 2005. The Company reclassified the operations of MetLife Indonesia into discontinued operations for all years presented.
Table of Contents
 
 
 
The following table presents the amounts related to the operations of MetLife Indonesia that have been combined with the discontinued real estate operations in the consolidated statements of income:
 
 
On January 31, 2005, the Company completed the sale of SSRM to a third party for $328 million in cash and stock. The Company reported the operations of SSRM in discontinued operations. As a result of the sale of SSRM, the Company recognized income from discontinued operations of $157 million, net of income tax, comprised of a realized gain of $165 million, net of income tax, and an operating expense related to a lease abandonment of $8 million, net of income tax. The Company's discontinued operations for the year ended December 31, 2005 included expenses of $6 million, net of income tax, related to the sale of SSRM. Under the terms of the sale agreement, MetLife will have an opportunity to receive additional payments based on, among other things, certain revenue retention and growth measures. The purchase price is also subject to reduction over five years, depending on retention of certain MetLife-related business. In the fourth quarter of 2007, the Company accrued a liability for $2 million, net of income tax, related to the termination of certain MetLife-related business. Also under the terms of such agreement, MetLife had the opportunity to receive additional consideration for the retention of certain customers for a specific period in 2005. Upon finalization of the computation, the Company received payments of $30 million, net of income tax, in the second quarter of 2006 and $12 million, net of income tax, in the fourth quarter of 2005 due to the retention of these specific customer accounts. In the first quarter of 2007, the Company received a payment of $16 million, net of income tax, as a result of the revenue retention and growth measure provision in the sales agreement. In the fourth quarter of 2006, the Company eliminated $4 million of a liability that was previously recorded with respect to the indemnities provided in connection with the sale of SSRM, resulting in a benefit to the Company of $2 million, net of income tax. The Company believes that future payments relating to these indemnities are not probable.
 
The operations of SSRM include affiliated revenues of $5 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, related to asset management services provided by SSRM to the Company that have not been eliminated from discontinued operations as these transactions continued after the sale of SSRM. The following table presents the amounts related to operations of SSRM that have been combined with the discontinued real estate operations in the consolidated statements of income:
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
The estimated fair value of financial instruments have been determined by using available market information and the valuation methodologies described below. Considerable judgment is often required in interpreting market data to develop estimates of fair value. Accordingly, the estimates presented herein may not necessarily be indicative of amounts that could be realized in a current market exchange. The use of different assumptions or valuation methodologies may have a material effect on the estimated fair value amounts. The implementation of SFAS 157 may impact the fair value assumptions and methodologies associated with the valuation of assets and liabilities. See also Note 1 regarding the adoption of SFAS 157.
 
Amounts related to the Company's financial instruments are as follows:
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
The methods and assumptions used to estimate the fair value of financial instruments are summarized as follows:
 
Fixed Maturity Securities, Trading Securities and Equity Securities
 
The fair values of publicly held fixed maturity securities and publicly held equity securities are based on quoted market prices or estimates from independent pricing services. However, in cases where quoted market prices are not available, such as for private fixed maturity securities, fair values are estimated using present value or valuation techniques. The determination of fair values is based on: (i) valuation methodologies; (ii) securities the Company deems to be comparable; and (iii) assumptions deemed appropriate given the circumstances. The fair value estimates based on available market information and judgments about financial instruments, including estimates of the timing and amounts of expected future cash flows and the credit standing of the issuer or counterparty. Factors considered in estimating fair value include; coupon rate, maturity, estimated duration, call provisions, sinking fund requirements, credit rating, industry sector of the issuer, and quoted market prices of comparable securities.
 
Mortgage and Consumer Loans, Mortgage Loan Commitments and Commitments to Fund Bank Credit Facilities, Bridge Loans, and Private Corporate Bond Investments
 
Fair values for mortgage and consumer loans are estimated by discounting expected future cash flows, using current interest rates for similar loans with similar credit risk. For mortgage loan commitments and commitments to fund bank credit facilities, bridge loans, and private corporate bond investments the estimated fair value is the net premium or discount of the commitments.
Table of Contents
 
 
 
Policy Loans
 
The carrying values for policy loans approximate fair value.
 
Cash and Cash Equivalents and Short-term Investments
 
The carrying values for cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments approximate fair values due to the short-term maturities of these instruments.
 
Accrued Investment Income
 
The carrying value for accrued investment income approximates fair value.
 
Policyholder Account Balances
 
The fair value of policyholder account balances which have final contractual maturities are estimated by discounting expected future cash flows based upon interest rates currently being offered for similar contracts with maturities consistent with those remaining for the agreements being valued. The fair value of policyholder account balances without final contractual maturities are assumed to equal their current net surrender value.
 
Short-term and Long-term Debt, Collateral Financing Arrangements, Junior Subordinated Debt Securities and Shares Subject to Mandatory Redemption
 
The fair values of short-term and long-term debt, collateral financing arrangements, junior subordinated debt securitiesand shares subject to mandatory redemption are determined by discounting expected future cash flows using risk rates currently available for debt with similar terms and remaining maturities.
,
 
Payables for Collateral Under Securities Loaned and Other Transactions
 
The carrying value for payables for collateral under securities loaned and other transactions approximate fair value.
 
Derivative Financial Instruments
 
The fair value of derivative financial instruments, including financial futures, financial forwards, interest rate, credit default and foreign currency swaps, foreign currency forwards, caps, floors, and options are based upon quotations obtained from dealers or other reliable sources. See Note 4 for derivative fair value disclosures.
 
 
Dividends
 
On February 19, 2008, the Holding Company's Board of Directors announced dividends of $0.3785745 per share, for a total of $9 million, on its Series A preferred shares, and $0.4062500 per share, for a total of $24 million, on its Series B preferred shares, subject to the final confirmation that it has met the financial tests specified in the Series A and Series B preferred shares, which the Holding Company anticipates will be made on or about March 5, 2008, the earliest date permitted in accordance with the terms of the securities. Both dividends will be payable March 17, 2008 to shareholders of record as of February 29, 2008.
 
Acquisitions
 
On February 1, 2008, the Company announced its completion of the acquisition of SafeGuard Health Enterprises, Inc. ("Safeguard") for approximately $190 million. Safeguard is primarily involved in providing dental
Table of Contents
 
 
 
and vision benefit plans, including health maintenance and preferred provider organization plan designs and administrative services.
 
On January 2, 2008, the Company completed the acquisition of Afore Actinver, S.A. de C.V. ("Actinver") for approximately $125 million. Actinver manages retirement accounts for approximately 1.1 million individuals in Mexico.
 
Stock Repurchases
 
On January 15, 2008, the Company's Board of Directors authorized a $1 billion common stock repurchase program, which began after the completion of an earlier $1 billion authorization that was announced in September 2007. See Note 18 for further information.
 
As previously discussed, in December 2007, the Company entered into an accelerated common stock repurchase agreement with a major bank. Under the terms of the agreement, the Company paid the bank $450 million in cash in January 2008 in exchange for 6.6 million shares of the Company's outstanding common stock that the bank borrowed from third parties. Also, in January 2008, the bank delivered 1.1 million additional shares of the Company's common stock to the Company resulting in a total of 7.7 million shares being repurchased under the agreement. Upon settlement with the bank, the Company increased additional paid-in capital and reduced treasury stock. See Note 18 for further information.
 
In February 2008, the Company entered into an accelerated common stock repurchase agreement with a major bank. Under the agreement, the Company paid the bank $711 million in cash and the bank delivered an initial amount of 11.2 million shares of the Company's outstanding common stock that the bank borrowed from third parties. Final settlement of the agreement is scheduled to take place during the first half of 2008. The final number of shares the Company is repurchasing under the terms of the agreement and the timing of the final settlement will depend on, among other things, prevailing market conditions and the market prices of the common stock during the repurchase period. The Company recorded the consideration paid as a reduction to stockholders' equity.
 
From January 1, 2008 to February 25, 2008, the Company also repurchased 1.6 million of its shares through open market purchases for $89 million.
Table of Contents
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
Business
 
"MetLife" or the "Company" refers to MetLife, Inc., a Delaware corporation incorporated in 1999 (the "Holding Company"), and its subsidiaries, including Metropolitan Life Insurance Company ("MLIC"). MetLife, Inc. is a leading provider of insurance and other financial services with operations throughout the United States and the regions of Latin America, Europe, and Asia Pacific. Through its domestic and international subsidiaries and affiliates, MetLife offers life insurance, annuities, automobile and homeowners insurance, retail banking and other financial services to individuals, as well as group insurance, reinsurance and retirement & savings products and services to corporations and other institutions.
 
On July 1, 2005, the Holding Company completed the acquisition of The Travelers Insurance Company, excluding certain assets, most significantly, Primerica, from Citigroup Inc. ("Citigroup"), and substantially all of Citigroup's international insurance businesses (collectively, "Travelers"), for $12.1 billion. The results of Travelers' operations were included in the Company's financial statements beginning July 1, 2005. As a result of the acquisition, management of the Company increased significantly the size and scale of the Company's core insurance and annuity products and expanded the Company's presence in both the retirement & savings domestic and international markets. The distribution agreements executed with Citigroup as part of the acquisition provide the Company with one of the broadest distribution networks in the industry. The initial consideration paid in 2005 by the Holding Company for the acquisition consisted of $10.9 billion in cash and 22,436,617 shares of the Holding Company's common stock with a market value of $1.0 billion to Citigroup and $100 million in other transaction costs. Additional consideration of $115 million was paid by the Holding Company to Citigroup in 2006. In addition to cash on-hand, the purchase price was financed through the issuance of common stock, debt securities, common equity units and preferred stock.
 
Basis of Presentation
 
The condensed financial information of the Holding Company ("Parent Company Only") should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements of MetLife, Inc. and subsidiaries and the notes thereto (the "Consolidated Financial Statements"). These condensed nonconsolidated financial statements reflect the results of operations, financial position and cash flows for the parent company only. Investments in subsidiaries are accounted for using the equity method of accounting prescribed by Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 18, .
The Equity Method of Accounting for Investments in Common Stock
 
The condensed unconsolidated financial statements are prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America except as stated previously which also requires management to make certain estimates and assumptions. The most important of these estimates and assumptions relate to the fair value measurements, the accounting for goodwill and identifiable intangible assets and the provision for potential losses that may arise from litigation and regulatory proceedings and tax audits, which may affect the amounts reported in the condensed financial statements and accompanying notes. Actual results could differ materially from these estimates.
 
For information on the following, refer to the indicated Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of MetLife, Inc.:
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
As described previously in Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, distribution agreements were executed with Citigroup as part of the Travelers' acquisition. Information regarding the value of distribution agreements ("VODA"), which are reported in other assets, is as follows:
 
 
During the year ended December 31, 2006, the Holding Company contributed the remaining amortized VODA to its subsidiaries which are receiving the benefit of such agreements.
 
 
The Holding Company lends funds, as necessary, to its subsidiaries, some of which are regulated, to meet their capital requirements. Such loans are included in loans to subsidiaries and consisted of the following at:
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
In December 2007, MLIC repaid the $800 million surplus note with an interest rate of 5.00% to the Holding Company and then issued to the Holding Company a $700 million surplus note with an interest rate of LIBOR plus 1.15%.
3-month
 
Interest income earned on loans to subsidiaries of $105 million, $105 million and $59 million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively, is included within net investment income.
 
Payments of interest and principal on surplus notes, which are subordinate to all other obligations of the issuing company, may be made only with the prior approval of the insurance department of the state of domicile.
 
 
Long-term Debt
 
Long-term debt outstanding is as follows:
 
 
Issuances
 
In September 2006, the Holding Company issued $204 million of affiliated long-term debt with an interest rate of 6.07% maturing in 2016.
 
In March 2006, the Holding Company issued $10 million of affiliated long-term debt with an interest rate of 5.70% maturing in 2016.
 
In December 2005, the Holding Company issued $286 million of affiliated long-term debt with an interest rate of 5.24% maturing in 2015.
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
In connection with financing the acquisition of Travelers on July 1, 2005, which is described in Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, the Holding Company issued the following debt:
 
In June 2005, the Holding Company issued in the United States public market $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of 5.00% senior notes due June 15, 2015 at a discount of $2.7 million ($997.3 million), and $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of 5.70% senior notes due June 15, 2035 at a discount of $2.4 million ($997.6 million). In connection with the offering, the Holding Company incurred $12 million of issuance costs which have been capitalized and included in other assets. These costs are being amortized using the effective interest method over the respective term of the related senior notes.
 
In June 2005, the Holding Company issued 400 million pounds sterling ($729.2 million at issuance) aggregate principal amount of 5.25% senior notes due June 29, 2020 at a discount of 4.5 million pounds sterling ($8.1 million at issuance), for aggregate proceeds of 395.5 million pounds sterling ($721.1 million at issuance). These notes were initially offered and sold outside the United States in reliance upon Regulation S under the Securities Act, as amended. In connection with the offering, the Holding Company incurred $4 million of issuance costs which have been capitalized and included in other assets. These costs are being amortized using the effective interest method over the term of the related senior notes.
 
Repayments
 
The Holding Company repaid a $500 million 5.25% senior note which matured in December 2006, and a $1,006 million 3.911% senior note which matured in May 2005.
 
Short-term Debt
 
At December 31, 2007 and 2006, the Holding Company's short-term debt of $310 million and $616 million, respectively, consisted of commercial paper. During the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, the commercial paper's average daily balance was $634 million, $1.1 billion and $104 million, respectively, and was outstanding for an average of 41 days, 32 days and 80 days, respectively, with a weighted average interest rate of 4.9%, 5.2% and 4.2%, respectively.
 
Interest Expense
 
Interest expense is comprised of the following:
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
Credit and Committed Facilities and Letters of Credit
 
  In June 2007, the Holding Company and MetLife Funding, Inc. entered into a $3.0 billion credit agreement with various financial institutions, the proceeds of which are available to be used for general corporate purposes, to support their commercial paper programs and for the issuance of letters of credit. All borrowings under the credit agreement must be repaid by June 2012, except that letters of credit outstanding upon termination may remain outstanding until June 2013. The borrowers and the lenders under this facility may agree to extend the term of all or part of the facility to no later than June 2014, except that letters of credit outstanding upon termination may remain outstanding until June 2015. The $1.5 billion credit agreement, with an April 2009 expiration, and the $1.5 billion credit agreement, with an April 2010 expiration, were both terminated in June 2007 and replaced by the aforementioned facility.
Credit Facilities.
 
At December 31, 2007, $1.5 billion of letters of credit have been issued under these unsecured credit facilities on behalf of the Holding Company.
 
  Information on the committed facilities as of December 31, 2007 is as follows:
Committed Facilities.
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
 
  At December 31, 2007, the Holding Company had $1.5 billion in outstanding letters of credit, all of which are associated with the aforementioned credit facilities, from various financial institutions. As commitments associated with letters of credit and financing arrangements may expire unused, these amounts do not necessarily reflect the Holding Company's actual future cash funding requirements.
Letters of Credit.
 
 
Dividends
 
The primary source of the Holding Company's liquidity is dividends it receives from its insurance subsidiaries. The Holding Company's insurance subsidiaries are subject to regulatory restrictions on the payment of dividends imposed by the regulators of their respective domiciles. The dividend limitation for U.S. insurance subsidiaries is based on the surplus to policyholders as of the immediately preceding calendar year and statutory net gain from operations for the immediately preceding calendar year. The maximum aggregate amount of dividends which the Holding Company subsidiaries may pay to the Holding Company in 2008 without insurance regulatory approval is $2,438 million.
 
Financing Arrangements Related to Subsidiaries
 
As described more fully in Note 12, Junior Subordinated Debentures, of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements during December 2007, MetLife Capital Trust IV ("Trust IV") issued exchangeable surplus trust securities (the "Trust Securities") with a face amount of $700 million and a discount of $6 million ($694 million), and a fixed rate of interest of 7.875% up to, but not including, December 15, 2037, the scheduled redemption date. The beneficial interest of Trust IV held by the Holding Company is not represented by an investment in Trust IV but rather by a financing agreement between the Holding Company and Trust IV. The assets of Trust IV are $700 million of 7.375% surplus notes of MLIC, which are scheduled to mature December 15, 2037, and rights under the financing agreement. Under the financing agreement, the Holding Company has the obligation to make payments (i) semiannually at a fixed rate of 0.50% of the surplus notes outstanding and owned by Trust IV or if greater (ii) equal to the difference between the Trust Securities interest payment and the interest received by Trust IV on the surplus notes. The ability of MLIC to make interest and principal payments on the surplus notes to the Holding Company is contingent upon regulatory approval. The Trust Securities, will be exchanged into a like amount of Holding Company junior subordinated debentures on December 15, 2037, the scheduled redemption date; mandatorily under certain circumstances; and at any time upon the Holding Company exercising its option to redeem the securities. The Trust Securities will be exchanged for junior subordinated debentures prior to repayment and the Holding Company is ultimately responsible for repayment of the junior subordinated debentures. The Holding Company's other rights and obligations as it relates to the deferral of interest, redemption, replacement capital obligation and replacement capital covenant associated with the issuance of the Trust Securities are more fully described in Note 12 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of MetLife, Inc.
 
As described more fully in Note 11, Collateral Financing Arrangements, of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements:
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
 
 
Support Agreements
 
The Holding Company, in connection with MRV's reinsurance of certain universal life and term life insurance risks, committed to the Vermont Department of Banking, Insurance, Securities and Health Care Administration to take necessary action to cause each of the two initial protected cells of MRV to maintain total adjusted capital equal to or greater than 200% of such protected cell's authorized control level risk-based capital ("RBC"), as defined in state insurance statutes. This transaction is more fully described in Note 10, Long-term and Short-term Debt, of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
In December 2007, the Holding Company, in connection with the collateral financing arrangement associated with MRC's reinsurance of a portion of the liabilities associated with the closed block, committed to the South Carolina Department of Insurance to make capital contributions, if necessary, to MRC so that MRC may at all times maintain its total adjusted capital at a level of not less than 200% of the company action level RBC, as defined in state insurance statutes as in effect on the date of determination or December 31, 2007, whichever calculation produces the greater capital requirement, or as otherwise required by the South Carolina Department of Insurance. This collateral financing arrangement is more fully described in Note 11, Collateral Financing Arrangements, of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
In May 2007, the Holding Company, in connection with the collateral financing arrangement associated with MRSC's reinsurance of universal life secondary guarantees, committed to the South Carolina Department of Insurance to take necessary action to cause MRSC to maintain total adjusted capital equal to the greater of $250,000 or 100% of MRSC's authorized control level RBC, as defined in state insurance statutes. This collateral financing arrangement is more fully described in Note 11, Collateral Financing Arrangements, of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
The Holding Company has net worth maintenance agreements with two of its insurance subsidiaries, MetLife Investors Insurance Company and First MetLife Investors Insurance Company. Under these agreements, as subsequently amended, the Holding Company agreed, without limitation as to the amount, to cause each of these subsidiaries to have a minimum capital and surplus of $10 million, total adjusted capital at a level not less than
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
150% of the company action level RBC, as defined by state insurance statutes, and liquidity necessary to enable it to meet its current obligations on a timely basis.
 
The Holding Company entered into a net worth maintenance agreement with Mitsui Sumitomo MetLife Insurance Company Limited ("MSMIC"), an investment in Japan of which the Holding Company owns 50% of the equity. Under the agreement, the Holding Company agreed, without limitation as to amount, to cause MSMIC to have the amount of capital and surplus necessary for MSMIC to maintain a solvency ratio of at least 400%, as calculated in accordance with the Insurance Business Law of Japan, and to make such loans to MSMIC as may be necessary to ensure that MSMIC has sufficient cash or other liquid assets to meet its payment obligations as they fall due.
 
During the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, the Holding Company was not required to provide support to any of its subsidiaries under these agreements.
 
Other
 
See Note 3 for description of loans to subsidiaries.
 
See Note 4 for description of the Holding Company's debt with subsidiaries.
Table of Contents
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 


