FILE:MET/MET-8K-20081008192002.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
     On October 8, 2008, MetLife, Inc. (the "Company") announced that it priced the public offering of 75,000,000 shares of common stock at a price of $26.50 per share.
     The offering is expected to close on Tuesday, October 14, 2008. The Company has granted the underwriters an option, exercisable for 30 days from the closing, to purchase an additional 11,250,000 shares to cover over-allotments, if any.
     A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
          Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: October 8, 2008
 

NEW YORK, October 8, 2008  MetLife, Inc. (NYSE: MET) announced today that it has priced a public offering of 75 million shares of common stock at $26.50 per share for gross proceeds of approximately $2 billion. In addition, the underwriters have an over-allotment option to purchase an additional 11.25 million shares of common stock. MetLife expects to use the net proceeds from the sale of the common stock for general corporate purposes and potential strategic initiatives.
Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC is the sole bookrunning manager of the offering. Merrill Lynch & Co. and UBS Investment Bank are acting as joint lead managers of the offering. A prospectus supplement and the accompanying prospectus related to the offering have been filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and are available on its website at . Printed copies of the prospectus and prospectus supplement for the offering may be obtained from Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC, Attention: Prospectus Department, One Madison Avenue, New York, NY 10010, telephone: (800) 221-1037.
www.sec.gov
This press release is neither an offer to sell, nor a solicitation of an offer to buy, nor shall there be any sale of these securities in any state in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of any such state.
This press release may contain or incorporate by reference information that includes or is based upon forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements give expectations or forecasts of future events. You can identify these statements by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. They use words such as "anticipate," "estimate," "expect," "project," "intend," "plan," believe" and other words and terms of similar meaning in connection with a discussion of future operating or financial performance. In particular, these include statements relating to future actions, prospective services or products, future performance or results of current and anticipated services or products, sales efforts, expenses, the outcome of contingencies such as legal proceedings, trends in operations and financial results.
 
Any or all forward-looking statements may turn out to be wrong. They can be affected by inaccurate assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. Many such factors will be important in determining MetLife's actual future results. These statements are based on current expectations and the current economic environment. They involve a number of risks and uncertainties that are difficult to predict. Actual results could differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements as a result of risks and uncertainties including, but not limited to, the following: (i) difficult and adverse conditions in the global and domestic capital and credit markets; (ii) continued volatility and further deterioration of the capital and credit markets; (iii) uncertainty about the effectiveness of the U.S. government's plan to purchase large amounts of illiquid, mortgage-backed and other securities from financial institutions; (iv) the impairment of other financial institutions; (v) potential liquidity and other risks resulting from our participation in a securities lending program and other transactions; (vi) exposure to financial and capital market risk; (vii) changes in general economic conditions, including the performance of financial markets and interest rates, which may affect our ability to raise capital and generate fee income and market-related revenue; (viii) defaults on our mortgage and consumer loans; (ix) investment losses and defaults, and changes to investment valuations; (x) market value impairments to illiquid assets; (xi) unanticipated changes in industry trends; (xii) heightened competition, including with respect to pricing, entry of new competitors, the development of new products by new and existing competitors and for personnel; (xiii) discrepancies between actual claims experience and assumptions used in setting prices for our products and establishing the liabilities for our obligations for future policy benefits and claims; (xiv) discrepancies between actual experience and assumptions used in establishing liabilities related to other contingencies or obligations; (xv) ineffectiveness of risk management policies and procedures; (xvi) catastrophe losses; (xvii) changes in assumptions related to deferred policy acquisition costs, value of business acquired or goodwill; (xviii) downgrades in our and our affiliates' claims paying ability, financial strength or credit ratings; (xix) economic, political, currency and other risks relating to our international operations; (xx) regulatory, legislative or tax changes that may affect the cost of, or demand for, our products or services; (xxi) changes in accounting standards, practices and/or policies; (xxii) adverse results or other consequences from litigation, arbitration or regulatory investigations; (xxiii) deterioration in the experience of the "closed block" established in connection with the reorganization of MLIC; (xxiv) the effects of business disruption or economic contraction due to terrorism or other hostilities; (xxv) MetLife's ability to identify and consummate on successful terms any future acquisitions, and to successfully integrate acquired businesses with minimal disruption; (xxvi) fluctuations in our share price; (xxvii) further sales or other dilution of our equity, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock; (xxviii) MetLife, Inc.'s primary reliance, as a holding company, on dividends from its subsidiaries to meet debt payment obligations and the applicable regulatory restrictions on the ability of the subsidiaries to pay such dividends; and (xxix) other risks and uncertainties described from time to time in MetLife, Inc.'s filings with the SEC.
The company specifically disclaims any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise.
Celebrating 140 years, MetLife, Inc. is a leading provider of insurance and financial services with operations throughout the United States and the Latin America, Europe and Asia Pacific regions. Through its domestic and international subsidiaries and affiliates, MetLife, Inc. reaches more than 70 million customers around the world and MetLife is the largest life insurer in the
 
United States (based on life insurance in-force). The MetLife companies offer life insurance, annuities, auto and home insurance, retail banking and other financial services to individuals, as well as group insurance and retirement & savings products and services to corporations and other institutions. For more information, please visit www.metlife.com.


