FILE:MET/MET-8K-20080725172139.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
Item 1.01      Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
On July 22, 2008, the Company established the MetLife, Inc. Director Indemnity Plan (the "Plan"). The Plan covers current directors of the Company and anyone who becomes a director of the Company prior to an amendment of the indemnification provisions of the Company's bylaws.
The Plan affirms that a director's rights to indemnification and expense advancement under the Company's bylaws are contract rights. The Company's bylaws provide, among other things, for the Company to indemnify, and advance expenses to, a person who is threatened with litigation or made party to a legal proceeding, by reason of serving as a director of the Company. The Plan also provides that advancement of expenses after the director's service ends shall be made on the same basis as if the director's service had continued. Any amendment or repeal of the rights provided under the Plan will not adversely affect any facts, occurrence, action or omission existing at or prior to the amendment or repeal. On the same date, Metropolitan Life Insurance Company, a subsidiary of the Company, established an indemnity plan providing rights for its directors that are substantially similar to the rights provided under the Plan.
The foregoing description of the Plan is not complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Plan, which is filed as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01.     Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     (a) Not applicable.      (b) Not applicable.      (c) Not applicable.      (d) Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
10.1   MetLife, Inc. Director Indemnity Plan
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date:  July 25, 2008
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, pursuant to the approval of its Board of Directors, the Company has caused the Plan to be executed by an authorized officer in its name on its behalf.
Date: July 22, 2008
WITNESSED:


