FILE:MET/MET-8K-20080305170837.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
     On March 1, 2008, Catherine A. Rein, Senior Executive Vice President of MetLife, Inc. (the "Company") and Metropolitan Life Insurance Company, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, retired.
Item 8.01 Other Events.
     On March 5, 2008, the Company issued a press release confirming its previously announced declaration of first quarter 2008 dividends of $0.3785745 per share on the Company's floating rate non-cumulative preferred stock, Series A, and $0.4062500 per share on the Company's 6.50% non-cumulative preferred stock, Series B. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: March 5, 2008
Table of Contents

 
NEW YORK, March 5, 2008  MetLife, Inc. (NYSE: MET) today confirmed its previously announced declaration of the first quarter 2008 dividends of $0.3785745 per share on the company's floating rate non-cumulative preferred stock, Series A (NYSE: METPrA) and $0.4062500 per share on the company's 6.50% non-cumulative preferred stock, Series B (NYSE: METPrB). Both dividends will be payable on March 17, 2008 to shareholders of record as of February 29, 2008.
MetLife, Inc. is a leading provider of insurance and financial services with operations throughout the United States and the Latin America, Europe and Asia Pacific regions. Through its domestic and international subsidiaries and affiliates, MetLife, Inc. reaches more than 70 million customers around the world and MetLife is the largest life insurer in the United States (based on life insurance in-force). The MetLife companies offer life insurance, annuities, auto and home insurance, retail banking and other financial services to individuals, as well as group insurance, reinsurance and retirement & savings products and services to corporations and other institutions. For more information, please visit www.metlife.com.
This release contains statements which constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including statements relating to trends in the operations and financial results and the business and the products of the company and its subsidiaries, as well as other statements including words such as "anticipate," "believe," "plan," "estimate," "expect," "intend" and other similar expressions. Forward-looking statements are made based upon management's current expectations and beliefs concerning future developments and their potential effects on the company. Such forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance.
Actual results may differ materially from those included in the forward-looking statements as a result of risks and uncertainties including, but not limited to, the following: (i) changes in general economic conditions, including the performance of financial markets and interest rates, which
 
may affect the company's ability to raise capital; (ii) heightened competition, including with respect to pricing, entry of new competitors, the development of new products by new and existing competitors and for personnel; (iii) investment losses and defaults, and changes to investment valuations; (iv) unanticipated changes in industry trends; (v) catastrophe losses; (vi) ineffectiveness of risk management policies and procedures; (vii) changes in accounting standards, practices and/or policies; (viii) changes in assumptions related to deferred policy acquisition costs, value of business acquired or goodwill; (ix) discrepancies between actual claims experience and assumptions used in setting prices for the company's products and establishing the liabilities for the company's obligations for future policy benefits and claims; (x) discrepancies between actual experience and assumptions used in establishing liabilities related to other contingencies or obligations; (xi) adverse results or other consequences from litigation, arbitration or regulatory investigations; (xii) downgrades in the company's and its affiliates' claims paying ability, financial strength or credit ratings; (xiii) regulatory, legislative or tax changes that may affect the cost of, or demand for, the company's products or services; (xiv) MetLife, Inc.'s primary reliance, as a holding company, on dividends from its subsidiaries to meet debt payment obligations and the applicable regulatory restrictions on the ability of the subsidiaries to pay such dividends; (xv) deterioration in the experience of the "closed block" established in connection with the reorganization of Metropolitan Life Insurance Company; (xvi) economic, political, currency and other risks relating to the company's international operations; (xvii) the effects of business disruption or economic contraction due to terrorism or other hostilities; (xviii) the company's ability to identify and consummate on successful terms any future acquisitions, and to successfully integrate acquired businesses with minimal disruption; and (xix) other risks and uncertainties described from time to time in MetLife, Inc.'s filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. The company specifically disclaims any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise.


