FILE:MET/MET-8K-20090629161855.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
Table of Contents
On June 23, 2009, the Board of Directors (the "Board") of MetLife, Inc. (the "Company") elected Alfred F. Kelly, Jr. as a director of the Company, effective immediately. Mr. Kelly was also appointed to serve on the Audit, Compensation, and Finance and Risk Policy Committees of the Board, effective immediately. A copy of the press release issued by the Company on June 23, 2009 announcing Mr. Kelly's appointment is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Mr. Kelly will participate in the non-management director compensation arrangements described in the Company's 2009 proxy statement. Under the terms of those arrangements, he will receive an annual retainer of $225,000 per year, 50% of which will be paid in shares of the Company's common stock and 50% of which will be paid in cash. Each annual retainer covers the period of Board service commencing at the Company's annual shareholders meeting and ending at its next annual shareholders meeting. For the period beginning at his election to the Board on June 23, 2009 and ending at the 2010 annual shareholders meeting, Mr. Kelly will receive a prorated retainer fee to reflect such period of service.
Mr. Kelly is the president of American Express Company ("American Express"). The Company or its affiliates hold debt securities issued by American Express or its affiliates in a principal amount of approximately $120 million, and approximately 992,000 shares of American Express common stock (of which approximately 986,000 shares are held in one or more separate accounts), which were acquired in the ordinary course of business. In addition, certain of the Company's insurance subsidiaries have provided annuities, group and other insurance policies, and employee benefit programs to American Express and/or its affiliates. Affiliates of the Company also maintain corporate charge card accounts with American Express, through which employees charge various expenses, on ordinary and customary terms.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements And Exhibits.
Table of Contents
          Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: June 29, 2009
Table of Contents

Exhibit 99.1
NEW YORK, June 23, 2009  MetLife, Inc. (NYSE: MET) announced today that it has named Alfred F. Kelly, Jr., 50, president of American Express Company, to its board of directors effective today.
"I am extremely pleased to have Al join MetLife's board of directors," said C. Robert Henrikson, chairman, president and chief executive officer of MetLife, Inc. "His outstanding background in financial services, information management and consumer operations, as well as his community leadership experience, will make him a valuable addition to the board."
At American Express, Kelly has day-to-day responsibility for the company's global consumer businesses, which include consumer and small business cards, customer service, global banking, prepaid products, consumer travel and risk and information management. Prior to his current position, he was a group president responsible for several key businesses, including U.S. consumer and small business cards, U.S. customer service and risk management.
From 1985 to 1987, Kelly served as head of information systems at the White House where he oversaw the information processing functions for several government agencies that comprise the Executive Office of the President. Prior to that, he held various positions in information systems and strategic and financial planning at PepsiCo.
Kelly is a member of the board of trustees of New York-Presbyterian Hospital and a member of the board of directors of Concern Worldwide USA and Iona Preparatory School. He also serves as vice chairman of the Wall Street Charity Golf Classic, an event that benefits the Cystic Fibrosis Foundation. He holds bachelor of arts and masters degrees in business administration from Iona College.
 
MetLife, Inc. is a leading provider of insurance, employee benefits and financial services with operations throughout the United States and the Latin America, Europe and Asia Pacific regions. Through its subsidiaries and affiliates, MetLife, Inc. reaches more than 70 million customers around the world and MetLife is the largest life insurer in the United States (based on life insurance in-force). The MetLife companies offer life insurance, annuities, auto and home insurance, retail banking and other financial services to individuals, as well as group insurance and retirement & savings products and services to corporations and other institutions. For more information, visit www.metlife.com.


