FILE:MET/MET-8K-20090113215140.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
Item 8.01.      Other Events.
     On January 12, 2009, MetLife, Inc. (the "Company") entered into a remarketing agreement (the "Remarketing Agreement") with Citigroup Global Markets, Inc., as Remarketing Agent, and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., not individually but solely as Purchase Contract Agent and as attorney-in-fact of the holders of Purchase Contracts (each as defined therein), relating to the remarketing of the Company's 4.91% Junior Subordinated Debt Securities, Series B (the "Series B Debt Securities") or any successor or replacement securities (the "Remarketed Securities"). Additional remarketing agents may be selected to participate in the remarketing. The terms of the Remarketing Agreement, which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1, are incorporated herein by reference. Capitalized terms used and not defined herein, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in the Remarketing Agreement.
     The Series B Debt Securities were originally issued by the Company to MetLife Capital Trust III ("Trust III") in June 2005 in connection with the offering of the Company's Common Equity Units (the "Units"). Each Unit initially consisted of a contract to purchase shares of the Company's common stock in accordance with the terms of the Units, a 1/80th undivided beneficial interest in a trust preferred security (the "Series A Trust Preferred Securities") of MetLife Capital Trust II ("Trust II") and a 1/80th undivided beneficial interest in a trust preferred security (the "Series B Trust Preferred Securities") of Trust III. In August 2008, Trust II was dissolved, the underlying debt securities held by Trust II were distributed to the holders of the Series A Trust Preferred Securities, and the underlying securities were remarketed.
     In accordance with the terms of the Declaration of Trust of Trust III, Trust III will be dissolved and the Series B Debt Securities will be distributed to the holders of the Series B Trust Preferred Securities, prior to the Remarketing Date. Subject to the terms of the Remarketing Agreement, the remarketing is scheduled to occur on February 11, 2009. The Remarketing Agreement provides that the Remarketing Agents are obligated to use their commercially reasonable efforts to obtain a price for the Remarketed Securities which results in proceeds, net of fees, equal to at least 100% of the aggregate principal amount of, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, on the Remarketed Securities to the Remarketing Settlement Date. The Remarketing Agents will remarket all Remarketed Securities tendered or deemed tendered for remarketing.
Item 9.01.     Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     (a) Not applicable.      (b) Not applicable.      (c) Not applicable.      (d) Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
99.1   Remarketing Agreement dated as of January 12, 2009 among MetLife, Inc., Citigroup Global Markets, Inc., as Remarketing Agent, and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., not individually, but solely as Purchase Contract Agent and as Attorney-in-Fact of the Holders of Purchase Contracts.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date:  January 13, 2009
 

January 12, 2009
Citigroup Global Markets Inc. 390 Greenwich Street New York, New York 10013
Ladies and Gentlemen:
               This Remarketing Agreement is dated as of January 12, 2009 (the "") among MetLife, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the ""), and Citigroup Global Markets Inc. ("") (the "," which expression shall include any institution(s) appointed as a Remarketing Agent in accordance with Section 8 hereof), and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., not individually but solely as Purchase Contract Agent (as defined below) and as attorney-in-fact of the holders of Purchase Contracts (as defined below). The Remarketing Agents are undertaking to remarket 4.91% Junior Subordinated Debt Securities, Series B, due 2040 (principal amount $1,000 per Junior Subordinated Debt Security) whose terms will be modified in the event of a Successful Remarketing (as defined below), as provided in the notice from the Company, dated as of January 6, 2009 (the "") pursuant to Section 10.2 of the Declaration and Section 2.12 of the Second Supplemental Indenture (each as defined below) (such securities, or, unless the context otherwise requires, any tranche thereof, as so modified from and after a Successful Remarketing or any successor or replacement securities (whether or not such securities were remarketed by the Remarketing Agent), the ""), issued by the Company, pursuant to an Indenture dated as of June 21, 2005 (the ""), between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as successor trustee to J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association (the ""), as supplemented by the Second Supplemental Indenture, dated as of June 21, 2005 (the "," and, together with the Base Indenture and, following execution thereof, the New Supplemental Indenture (as defined below), the ""), between the Company and the Trustee. The Securities were initially issued by the Company to MetLife Capital Trust III, a statutory business trust formed under Delaware law (the ""), together with a guarantee, subject to certain restrictions (the ""), of the 4.91% Series B Trust Preferred Securities (stated liquidation amount $1,000 per Trust Preferred Security) (the "") issued by the Trust pursuant to the terms of the
Remarketing Agreement
Company
Citi
Remarketing Agents
Notice
Securities
Base Indenture
Trustee
Second Supplemental Indenture
Indenture
Trust
Guarantee
Trust Preferred Securities
 
Amended and Restated Declaration of Trust dated as of June 21, 2005, among the Company, as the sponsor, The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as successor property trustee to J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association (the ""), BNY Mellon Trust of Delaware, as successor Delaware trustee to Chase Bank USA, National Association, (the ""), the administrative trustees named therein and the holders from time to time of the beneficial interests in the assets of the Trust (the "").
Property Trustee
Delaware Trustee
Declaration
               A 1/80or 1.25% undivided beneficial ownership interest in each Trust Preferred Security is part of a unit (the ""), which initially also included (i) a stock purchase contract (a ""), which was issued pursuant to the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement, dated as of June 21, 2005 (the ""), between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as successor stock purchase contract agent to J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association (the "") and under which the holder is obligated to purchase from the Company on the Initial Stock Purchase Date and the Subsequent Stock Purchase Date (each as defined in the Purchase Contract Agreement) a number of shares of common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the Company (the ""), equal to the Settlement Rate as set forth in the Purchase Contract Agreement and (ii) a 1/80 or 1.25% undivided beneficial ownership interest in a 4.82% Series A Trust Preferred Security of MetLife Capital Trust II.
th
Unit
Purchase Contract
Purchase Contract Agreement
Purchase Contract Agent
Common Stock
th
               In accordance with the Declaration, on January 6, 2009, the Company, as holder of all of the common securities of the Trust, directed the Property Trustee to dissolve the Trust, effective February 5, 2009, and to cancel all of the Trust Preferred Securities. In accordance with the terms of the Declaration, the Securities will be distributed to holders of the Trust Preferred Securities and Common Securities (as defined in the Declaration). Upon distribution to holders of the Trust Preferred Securities, the Securities constituting a part of the Units will be pledged by the Purchase Contract Agent, on behalf of the holders of the Units, to The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as successor collateral agent to JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association (the ""), pursuant to the Pledge Agreement, dated as of June 21, 2005 (the ""), among the Company, the Purchase Contract Agent, the Collateral Agent and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as successor custodial agent to JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association (the "") and as successor securities intermediary to JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association, to secure the holders' obligation to purchase Common Stock on the Subsequent Stock Purchase Date (as defined in the Purchase Contract Agreement) under the Purchase Contracts.
Collateral Agent
Pledge Agreement
Custodial Agent
               Capitalized terms used and not defined in this Remarketing Agreement shall have the meanings set forth in the Purchase Contract Agreement, the Pledge Agreement or the Indenture, as the case may be. Unless the context otherwise requires, all references in the Purchase Contract Agreement, the Pledge Agreement and the Indenture to the Trust Preferred Securities shall be deemed to refer to the Securities.
               The Remarketing (as defined below) of the Securities is provided for in Article X of the Declaration, the provisions of which, upon dissolution of the Trust, shall be deemed
 
thereafter to apply, , to any Remarketing of the Securities pursuant to Section 2.12 of the Second Supplemental Indenture. Pursuant to Section 2.12 of the Second Supplemental Indenture, upon dissolution of the Trust, the Company and the Trustee shall promptly enter into a new supplemental indenture (the ""), making provision for the remarketing and reset mechanics on the basis set forth in Article X of the Declaration. As used in this Remarketing Agreement, "" shall mean, collectively, the Purchase Contract Agreement, the Indenture, the Pledge Agreement and this Remarketing Agreement; the term "" means the Securities subject to the Remarketing as notified to the Remarketing Agent by the Collateral Agent and the Custodial Agent, on or prior to the first Business Day prior to the Remarketing Date; the term "" means the procedures in connection with the Remarketing, described in the Purchase Contract Agreement, the Pledge Agreement, the Declaration (applied, , to the Remarketed Securities) and, upon entry into the New Supplemental Indenture, the New Supplemental Indenture, as the case may be; the term "" means the remarketing of the Remarketed Securities pursuant to the Remarketing Procedures; the term "" means February 11, 2009; and the term "" means February 17, 2009.
mutatis mutandis
New Supplemental Indenture
Transaction Documents
Remarketed Securities
Remarketing Procedures
mutatis mutandis
Remarketing
Remarketing Date
Remarketing Settlement Date
 
 
 
 
 
               As used in this subsection and elsewhere in this Remarketing Agreement:
               "" means such time as is specified as the "Applicable Time" in the Pricing Agreement among the Company, the Remarketing Agent(s) and the Purchase Contract Agent, dated as of the Remarketing Date (the "") or such other time as agreed by the Company and the Remarketing Agents.
Applicable Time
Pricing Agreement
               "" means any "," as defined in Rule 433 under the Securities Act (""), relating to the Remarketed Securities.
Issuer Free Writing Prospectus
issuer free writing prospectus
Rule 433
               "" means the Base Prospectus, as amended or supplemented (including by any Preliminary Prospectus) immediately prior to the Applicable Time.
Pricing Prospectus
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Accepted as of the date hereof on behalf of the Remarketing Agents:
 
 
ANNEX I
 
ANNEX II
 
ANNEX III
[Date]
[New Remarketing Agent] [Address]
Dear Sirs,
Remarketing of 4.91% Junior Subordinated Debt Securities, Series B, due 2040 of MetLife, Inc. (CUSIP: 59156RAL2) (the "
Remarketed Securities
")
     The undersigned refers to the Remarketing Agreement, dated as of January 12, 2009 (the "") among ourselves as the Company, The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as Purchase Contract Agent (the ""), and the Remarketing Agents from time to time party thereto, and have the pleasure of inviting you to become a Remarketing Agent subject to and in accordance with the terms of the Remarketing Agreement, a copy of which has been supplied to you by us. In addition, we enclose letters entitling you to rely on the original letters referred to in Section 5 of the Remarketing Agreement, as such letters may have been amended or supplemented, together with copies of such original, amended or supplemented letters. Please return to the Company a copy of this letter signed by an authorized signatory whereupon you will become a Remarketing Agent for the purposes of the Remarketing Agreement with all the authority, rights, powers, duties and obligations of a Remarketing Agent under the Remarketing Agreement.
Remarketing Agreement
Purchase Contract Agent
     This letter is governed by, and shall be construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York. The provisions of Sections 15 and 16 of the Remarketing Agreement shall apply to this letter as if set out herein in full.
 
Yours faithfully,
Acknowledged as of the date hereof:
, as Purchase Contract Agent
THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON TRUST COMPANY, N.A.
 
CONFIRMATION
     We hereby accept the appointment as a Remarketing Agent and accept all of the duties and obligations under, and the terms and conditions of the Remarketing Agreement upon the terms of this letter.
     We confirm that we are in receipt of all the documents which we have requested and have found them to be satisfactory.
     For the purposes of the Remarketing Agreement our communications details are as set out below.
Copies to:
(i) All existing Remarketing Agents who have been appointed in respect of the Remarketing of the Remarketed Securities.
(ii) The Purchase Contract Agent.
 
ANNEX IV


