FILE:MET/MET-8K-20100914170436.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
Item 2.02.     Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
      The slide presentations attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1, and incorporated herein by reference, will be presented at MetLife, Inc.'s Asia Investor Day Conference in Tokyo, Japan on September 15, 2010 and may be used by MetLife, Inc. in various other presentations to investors. The slide presentations are furnished and not filed pursuant to Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K.
Item 7.01.     Regulation FD.
      The slide presentations attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1, and incorporated herein by reference, will be presented at MetLife, Inc.'s Asia Investor Day Conference in Tokyo, Japan on September 15, 2010 and may be used by MetLife, Inc. in various other presentations to investors. The slide presentations are furnished and not filed pursuant to Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K.
Item 9.01.     Financial Statements and Exhibits.
      (a) Not applicable.
      (b) Not applicable.
      (c) Not applicable.
      (d) Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: September 14, 2010
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Conor Murphy Vice President, Investor Relations MetLife
Conor Murphy is vice president and head of investor relations for MetLife. He was appointed to this position in November 2007.
In this role, Murphy manages the coordination and execution of presenting MetLife's financial results, messages and strategies to the analyst and investor community.
Before being named to his current position, Murphy was vice president and chief financial officer for MetLife's investments department since July 2002. His various responsibilities included financial reporting & analysis, investment income projections, performance measurement & attribution, portfolio valuation and the Sarbanes-Oxley processes for investments.
Prior to joining the investments department, Murphy served in MetLife's internal audit department, where he was responsible for various groups, including investments and investment affiliate auditing operations. Affiliate operations included investment advisor, mutual fund, broker dealer and trust company subsidiaries. He was also responsible for the Reinsurance Group of America (RGA) audit functions. MetLife, Inc. was the beneficial owner of approximately 52% of RGA's outstanding shares before divesting its majority stake in the company in September 2008.
Murphy joined MetLife in October 2000 after seven years with PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, where he served in the New York Financial Services Industry Practice. Prior to PricewaterhouseCoopers, he spent five years with Grant Thornton LLP in Dublin, Ireland.
Murphy is a founding trustee of Cristo Rey New York High School and a past president of the Association of Chartered Accountants in the United States. In 2010 and for the third year in a row, Murphy was among a select group of 50 Irish-American business leaders honored at the annual "Wall Street 50" awards.
He is a certified public accountant and a member of the Massachusetts Society of CPAs. Murphy is also a chartered accountant and a fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in Ireland.
 
William J. Toppeta President, International MetLife, Inc.
William J. Toppeta is president, International for MetLife, Inc. He was named to this position in July 2001 and is responsible for all of the company's insurance and employee benefits businesses outside the United States. Under his leadership, MetLife continues to expand its operations in three key regions outside of the U.S.: Latin America, Asia Pacific and Europe. In June 2010 he was named to lead the combined international organization of MetLife and Alico once the transaction closes later this year.
Since Toppeta was named president, International's revenues have grown from $1.2 billion in 2001 to $5.5 billion in 2009. Partially as a result of MetLife's 2005 acquisition of substantially all of Citigroup Inc.'s international insurance businesses, MetLife's presence outside the U.S. has expanded to now reach over 18 million customers in multiple countries and territories.
Toppeta has focused MetLife's International business on growth  both organically and through acquisitions. He was the principal architect of MetLife's acquisition and integration of Aseguradora Hidalgo S.A. in Mexico, where MetLife is now the largest life insurer. He also expanded MetLife's operations in South Korea, Chile, Brazil, India and China.
Prior to assuming his current role, Toppeta served as MetLife's president of client services and chief administrative officer from 1999 to 2001. Prior to this position, he oversaw MetLife's Individual Business segment after having led the U.S. career agency sales force for three years. In 1995, he was named senior vice president to lead MetLife's corporate reengineering department.
After being named vice president and deputy general manager of MetLife's Canadian operations in 1992, he became president and CEO of Metropolitan Life's Canadian operations in 1993. Early in his career Toppeta served as executive assistant to former CEO, Richard R. Shinn. He began his career at MetLife in 1973 as an attorney in the law department.
Toppeta is chairman of the Coalition of Services Industries, chairman of the International Committee of the American Council of Life Insurers and a member of the Executive Committee of the U.S.  Korea Business Council. He also serves on the boards of directors of the Council of the Americas and of the Korea Society. He is a director of MetLife Foundation and several MetLife subsidiaries. Toppeta is also a member of the Executive Committee of the Fordham University President's Council.
He holds a B.A. from Fordham College as well as a J.D. and a LL.M from New York University's School of Law.
 
Jong Kim Chief Executive Officer MetLife Korea
Jong Kim was appointed CEO for MetLife in Korea in Aug 2009. Jong joined MetLife in 1986 as Sales Representative in Concord, CA.
Prior to his current role, Jong served as Chief Operating Officer from May 2007 to July 2009 for MetLife in Korea and prior to this position Jong served as senior vice president at Korea Life Insurance, being responsible for professional agency from 2005 to 2007.
Previously at MetLife, Jong also served as Head of Corporate Pension Business and prior to this position he served as Managing Director in Individual Business.
Jong began his career at California Korea Bank in 1983 as Operations Manager in Los Angeles, CA.
He majored in business administration at Korea University and holds an MBA from University of California, Berkeley.
 
Peter A. Smyth Regional Managing Director MetLife Asia Pacific Region
Peter A. Smyth joined MetLife as Regional Managing Director of the firm's Asia Pacific Region, based in Hong Kong, on January 1, 2010. In this position Mr. Smyth is responsible for MetLife's overall presence in the region, which currently includes Korea, China, Hong Kong, Taiwan and Australia, together with its indirect activities in other Southeast Asian markets.
Mr. Smyth brings to his MetLife role a broad range of international experience gained over 30 years as a senior executive and business leader, with a long, rich track record of success throughout Asia and more recent experience in Brazil and select European markets. His regional and global business leadership experience, including P&L and overall line management responsibilities in life insurance, pensions, annuities, mutual funds and wealth management, are matched by his extensive strategy, business development and transactions experience, including the establishment and management of joint ventures and partnerships with both financial and strategic counterparties.
Prior to joining MetLife, Mr. Smyth served as Executive Vice President  International, Hartford Life (HLI), based in Simsbury, Connecticut. In that role he operated in a matrix structure with direct line management responsibility for Hartford Life Japan, Hartford Life Europe, Icatu-Hartford (Brazil), Hartford Investments Canada, and Hartford Global Offshore Products (Bermuda and Ireland). Mr. Smyth was a member of the Hartford Life (HLI) senior leadership team, one of four lines of business leaders reporting to the President of HLI, along with several functional leaders.
Before joining The Hartford, Mr. Smyth was Regional General Manager of ING Asia/Pacific, based in Hong Kong. In that role he had direct management responsibility at various times for businesses in Australia, New Zealand, Malaysia, India, Pakistan, Hong Kong, Taiwan, Korea and Thailand. Mr. Smyth was a member of the senior management team, one of six global business lines of ING Group responsible for the development, performance, profitability and value creation of all insurance, pensions and asset management business in the region.
Earlier in his career Mr. Smyth worked with Legal & General Asia in Sydney, Australia, managing Legal & General's Asian Development team.
Mr. Smyth is a Fellow of the Institute of Actuaries in London, and holds a Bachelor of Arts degree in Actuarial Studies from Macquarie University in Sydney, Australia.
 
William R. Hogan Executive Vice President, International Product Management MetLife
William R. Hogan is executive vice president of product management for MetLife's International business. In this role, he is responsible for leading the business's product management efforts with a clear accountability for the development, management and measurement of all products  institutional, individual or inbound reinsurance  outside of the United States. Hogan also has responsibility for international strategy and risk management. He was named to this position in July 2006.
Hogan joined MetLife in 2005 following the company's acquisition of Travelers Life & Annuity and substantially all of Citigroup's international insurance operations. Upon joining MetLife, he was responsible for all individually underwritten products sold through retail distribution, including bancassurance, third-party distribution, direct marketing and telemarketing, as well as through the company's agency forces outside the United States.
Prior to joining MetLife, Hogan was regional head of Latin America for CitiInsurance, and was in charge of all insurance operations for CitiInsurance in Latin America, including managing 4 insurance companies and supporting Citibank insurance distribution in 12 countries.
Prior to that, Hogan was senior vice president, Travelers Life & Annuity, responsible for the P&L and operations of the life insurance and the retail annuities businesses. From 1997 to 2000, Hogan served as vice president and chief actuary for Travelers Life & Annuity, responsible for corporate risk oversight and all budgeting and financial reporting. In addition, he was chief actuary for the group annuity business. He started his career as an actuarial student with Travelers and held a variety positions, including actuary, individual annuities product development and asset liability.
Hogan received a B.A. in mathematics from Williams College. He is a fellow in the Society of Actuaries and serves on the board of the Wellspring Foundation, a not-for-profit multi-service mental health agency.


