FILE:MET/MET-8K-20100222162905.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
     On February 21, 2010 the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of MetLife, Inc. approved a modified form of Management Performance Share Agreement (the "Form of Performance Share Agreement") for purposes of tax compliance. Except as described below, the Form of Performance Share Agreement is substantially identical to the terms of the previously prevailing form of agreement.
     The Form of Performance Share Agreement includes new terms which are intended to satisfy the requirement for objective performance goals under U.S. Internal Revenue Code Section 162(m). The new terms, which will be effective for future grants, require that for a payout on an award to be due, there must be positive MetLife, Inc. income from continuing operations before provision for income tax, excluding total net investment gains (losses) for the three-year performance period as a whole, or for the final calendar year of the period, or positive MetLife, Inc. total shareholder return for either such period. As with past awards, assuming that at least one of the tests has been met, the amount of the final payment on the award will be determined according to MetLife, Inc.'s performance in change in annual net operating earnings per share and total shareholder return over the three-year performance period compared to the Standard & Poor's Insurance Index derived from Fortune 500 companies, as provided in the Form of Performance Share Agreement.
     The foregoing description of the Form of Performance Share Agreement is a summary, is not complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Form of Performance Share Agreement, which is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 8.01 Other Events.
     On February 18, 2010, MetLife, Inc. issued a press release announcing the declaration of first quarter 2010 dividends of $0.2500000 per share on MetLife, Inc.'s floating rate non-cumulative preferred stock, Series A, and $0.4062500 per share on MetLife, Inc.'s 6.50% non-cumulative preferred stock, Series B, subject to the final confirmation that it has met the financial tests specified in the Series A and Series B preferred stock. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
     On February 19, 2010, MetLife, Inc. issued a press release announcing the date of its 2010 annual shareholders meeting. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
          Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date:  February 22, 2010
 

Exhibit 10.1
     MetLife, Inc. confirms that, on (the "Grant Date"), it granted you, , Performance Shares (your "Performance Shares"). Your Performance Shares are subject to the terms and conditions of this Management Performance Share Agreement (this "Agreement") and the MetLife, Inc. 2005 Stock and Incentive Compensation Plan (the "Plan").
[grant date]
[name]
[number]
     
1. 
Standard Performance Terms
.
     (a) The terms of this Section 1 shall be referred to as the "Standard Performance Terms" and will apply to your Performance Shares except in so far as Sections 2 (Change of Status) or 3 (Change of Control) apply.
     (b) The Performance Period for your Performance Shares will begin on , and end on the December 31 immediately preceding the third anniversary of the beginning of the Performance Period. After the conclusion of the Performance Period, the Committee shall certify in writing the number of Performance Shares payable in accordance with this Section 1 (your "Final Performance Shares"), and your Final Performance Shares will be due and payable in Shares at the time specified in Section 8.
[date]
[year]
     (c) If the Committee determines in writing that the Company met one or more of the Section 162(m) Goals, then you will be eligible for a payment of up to 200% of your Performance Shares. The "Section 162(m) Goals" shall be the following:
     (1) Positive Company income from continuing operations before provision for income tax, excluding total net investment gains (losses) (defined in accordance with Section 3(a) of Article 7.04 of SEC Regulation S-X), as defined on the Company Statement of Income for 2009 ("Adjusted Income"), for the Performance Period.
     (2) Positive Adjusted Income for the third calendar year of the Performance Period.
     (3) Positive Company Proportionate Total Shareholder Return for the Performance Period, as defined for the Company in Section 1(d)(2).
     (4) Positive Company Proportionate Total Shareholder Return for the third calendar year of the Performance Period, as defined for the Company in Section 1(d)(2) with respect to the third calendar year of the Performance Period.
 
     (d) If, under Section 1(c), you are eligible for a payment, the Committee will determine your Final Performance Shares by multiplying your Performance Shares by the "Performance Factor." The Performance Factor means a percentage (from zero to 200%) which is the sum of two other percentages (each from zero to 100%), described in (1) and (2) below, multiplied by the factor determined by (3) below, if applicable.
     (1) The first percentage will be based on the Company's average percentile performance with respect to Change in Annual Net Operating Income Available to Common Shareholders Per Share during the Performance Period relative to the other companies in the Index, determined in the following manner:
     (a) First, the Net Operating Income Available to Common Shareholders Per Share will be determined for the Company and for each of the other companies in the Index, for each calendar year of the Performance Period and the calendar immediately preceding the first calendar year of the Performance Period. For this purpose, "Net Operating Income Available to Common Shareholders Per Share" for each calendar year will have the meaning of that term, or its substantial equivalent, defined in or derived from the Company's quarterly financial supplement for the fourth quarter of the prior year filed with or furnished to the United States Securities and Exchange Commission.
     (b) Second, the Change in Annual Net Operating Income Available to Common Shareholders Per Share will be determined for the Company and for each of the other companies in the Index for each calendar year of the Performance Period. For this purpose, "Change in Annual Net Operating Income Available to Common Shareholders Per Share" means Net Operating Income Available to Common Shareholders Per Share for each calendar year of the Performance Period divided by Net Operating Income Available to Common Shareholders Per Share in the immediately preceding calendar year.
     (c) Third, the Company's Change in Annual Net Operating Income Available to Common Shareholders Per Share for each calendar year of the Performance Period will be compared to the Change in Annual Net Operating Income Available to Common Shareholders Per Share for each of the other companies in the Index for the same calendar year to determine the percentage of the other companies in the Index whose performance was less than that of the Company, rounded down to the nearest whole number percentile appearing on the left-hand column of Table 1 of Schedule A to this Agreement (Company performance greater than every other company in the Index
 
being deemed to be performance in the ninety-ninth percentile), producing the Company's percentile performance relative to the other companies in the Index.
     (d) Fourth, a percentage for each calendar year of the Performance Period will be determined using the percentile determined under Section 1(d)(1)(c) and the corresponding percentage on the right-hand column of Table 1 of Schedule A to this Agreement.
     (e) Finally, the three percentages referenced in Section (1)(d)(1)(d) will be averaged.
     (2) The second percentage will be based on the Company's performance with respect to Proportionate Total Shareholder Return during the Performance Period as a percentage of that of the Index, determined according to Table 2 of Schedule A to this Agreement, determined in the following manner:
     (a) First, the Initial Closing Price of the Company and the Index will each be determined. For this purpose, "Initial Closing Price" means, in the case of the Company the average Closing Price, and in the case of the Index the value of the Index, in each case for the twenty (20) trading days prior to the first day of the Performance Period.
     (b) Second, the Final Closing Price of the Company and the Index will each be determined. For this purpose, "Final Closing Price" means, in the case of the Company the average Closing Price, and in the case of the Index the value of the Index, in each case for the twenty (20) trading days prior to and including the final day of the Performance Period.
     (c) Third, the Total Shareholder Return of the Company and the Index will each be determined, and expressed as a percentage. For this purpose, "Total Shareholder Return" means the change (plus or minus) from the Initial Closing Price to the Final Closing Price, plus (in the case of the Company) dividends (if any) actually paid on Shares on a reinvested basis from the first day of the Performance Period to and including the last day of the Performance Period.
     (d) Fourth, the Proportionate Total Shareholder Return of the Company and the Index will each be determined. For this purpose, "Proportionate Total Shareholder Return" means Total Shareholder Return divided by Initial Closing Price.
     (e) Fifth, the Proportionate Total Shareholder Return of the Index will be subtracted from the Company's Proportionate Total Shareholder Return, and the result rounded up or down to the nearest percentage appearing on the left-hand column of Table 2 of Schedule A to this Agreement (any result precisely halfway between two percentages being rounded up to the next highest percentage).
     (f) Finally, a percentage will be determined using the result produced under Section 1(d)(2)(e) and the corresponding percentage on the right-hand column of Table 2 of Schedule A to this Agreement.
 
     (3) If the Total Shareholder Return of the Company, as determined under Section (1)(d)(2)(c), is zero percent or less, then the sum of the percentages described under Sections (1)(d)(1) and (1)(d)(2) will be multiplied by a factor of seventy-five hundredths (0.75) and rounded up or down to the nearest whole percentage (any result precisely halfway between two percentages being rounded up to the next highest percentage) to determine the Performance Factor.
     (e) For purposes of Section 1(d)(1), the companies in the Index refers to each company, other than the Company, that:
     (1) does not adopt International Financial Reporting Standards with respect to a reporting period earlier than the reporting period with respect to which the Company does so,
     (2) has publicly reported its earnings in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America for each of the two calendar years being compared under Section 1(d)(1)(b); and
     (3) is included in the Standard & Poor's Insurance Index derived from Fortune 500 companies for the entirety of the second of the two calendar years being compared under Section 1(d)(1)(b).
     (f) For purposes of Section 1(d)(2), the Index refers to the Standard & Poor's Insurance Index derived from Fortune 500 companies, including any weighting of the stock of the companies included in that index that is applied by Standard & Poor's, from time to time.
     For purposes of this Section 2, your transfer between the Company and an Affiliate, or among Affiliates, will not be a termination of employment. In the event of a Change of Control, any applicable terms of Section 3 (Change of Control) will supersede the terms of this Section 2.
2. 
Change of Status
.
     (a) . In the event you qualify for long-term disability benefits under a plan or arrangement offered by the Company or an Affiliate for its Employees, the Standard Performance Terms will continue to apply to your Performance Shares. Once this provision applies, no other change of status described in this Section 2 (except the provision regarding termination for Cause) will affect your Performance Shares, even if you subsequently return to active service or your employment with the Company or an Affiliate terminates other than for Cause.
Long-Term Disability
     (b) . In the event that your employment with the Company or an Affiliate terminates due to your death, your Performance Shares will be due and payable in Shares (or cash at a value equal to the Closing Price on the date of your death, if so determined by the Committee). Any payment will be made at the time specified in Section 8.
Death
     (c) . If your employment with the Company or an Affiliate terminates (other than for Cause) on after your early retirement date or normal retirement date (in each case determined under any ERISA qualified pension plan offered by the Company or an Affiliate in which you participate) ("Retirement"), the Standard Performance Terms will continue to apply to your Performance Shares.
Retirement
     (d) . If your employment with the Company or an Affiliate terminates (other than for Cause) with bridge eligibility for retirement-related medical benefits (determined under an
Bridge Eligibility
 
ERISA qualified benefit plan offered by the Company or an Affiliate in which you participate, if any) ("Bridge Eligibility"), and your separation agreement (offered to you under the severance program offered by the Company or an Affiliate to its Employees) becomes final, the Standard Performance Terms will continue to apply to your Performance Shares.
     (e) . In the event that your employment with the Company or an Affiliate terminates for Cause, your Performance Shares will be forfeited immediately.
Termination for Cause
     (f) . Unless the Committee determines otherwise, if no other provision in this Section 2 regarding change of status applies, including, for example, your voluntary termination of employment, your termination without Retirement or Bridge Eligibility, or your termination by the Company or an Affiliate without Cause, your Performance Shares will be forfeited immediately unless you are offered a separation agreement by the Company or an Affiliate under a severance program. To the extent your separation agreement becomes final, your Prorated Performance Shares will be due and payable to you. Any payment will be made at the time specified in Section 8. The number of your "Prorated Performance Shares" will be determined by dividing the number of calendar months in the Performance Period that have ended as of the end of the month of the termination of your employment by thirty-six (36), multiplying the result by the number of your Performance Shares, and rounding to the nearest whole number, and, if you were an Insider or an "executive officer" of the Company under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules promulgated thereunder, at any time during the Performance Period, further multiplying the result by the lesser of 100% or the Performance Factor; , that if the date of the termination of your employment is prior to the first anniversary of the beginning of the Performance Period, then the number of your Prorated Performance Shares shall be zero (0). Payment for each of your Prorated Performance Shares will be made in cash at a value equal to the Closing Price on the Grant Date, and shall be rounded to the nearest one-hundred dollars ($100.00); , that if you were an Insider or an "executive officer" of the Company under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules promulgated thereunder, at any time during the Performance Period, payment for each of your Prorated Performance Shares will be made in cash at a value equal to the lesser of the Closing Price on the Grant Date or the Closing Price on the date the Committee determines the Performance Factor, and shall be rounded to the nearest one-hundred dollars ($100.00). If your separation agreement does not become final, your Performance Shares will be forfeited.
Other Termination of Employment
provided, however
provided, however
     
3. 
Change of Control
.
     (a) Except as provided in Section 3(b), and unless otherwise prohibited under law or by applicable rules of a national security exchange, if a Change of Control occurs, your Performance Shares will be due and payable in the form of cash equal to the number of your Performance Shares multiplied by the Change of Control Price. Any payment will be made at the time specified in Section 8.
     (b) The terms of Section 3(a) will not apply to your Performance Shares if the Committee reasonably determines in good faith, prior to the Change of Control, that you have been granted an Alternative Award for your Performance Shares pursuant to Section 15.2 of the Plan. Any such Alternative Award shall not accelerate the timing of payment or otherwise violate Code Section 409A.
     Except as provided in Section 5 or as otherwise permitted by the Committee, you may not sell, transfer, pledge, assign or otherwise alienate or hypothecate any
4. 
Nontransferability of Awards
.
 
of your Performance Shares, and all rights with respect to your Performance Shares are exercisable during your lifetime only by you.
     You may name any beneficiary or beneficiaries (who may be named contingently or successively) who may then exercise any right under this Agreement in the event of your death. Each beneficiary designation for such purpose will revoke all such prior designations. Beneficiary designations must be properly completed on a form prescribed by the Committee and must be filed with the Company during your lifetime. If you have not designated a beneficiary, your rights under this Agreement will pass to and may be exercised by your estate.
5. 
Beneficiary Designation
.
     The Company will withhold from payment made under this Agreement an amount sufficient to satisfy the minimum statutory Federal, state, and local tax withholding requirements relating to payment on account of your Performance Shares.
6. 
Tax Withholding
.
     The Committee will make appropriate adjustments in the terms and conditions of your Performance Shares in recognition of unusual or nonrecurring events affecting the Company or its financial statements (such as a Common Stock dividend, Common Stock split, recapitalization, payment of an extraordinary dividend, merger, consolidation, combination, spin-off, distribution of assets to stockholders other than ordinary cash dividends, exchange of shares, or other similar corporate change), or in recognition of changes to applicable laws, regulations, or accounting principles, to prevent unintended dilution or enlargement of the potential benefits of your Performance Shares. The Committee's determinations in this regard will be conclusive.
7. 
Adjustments
.
     
8. 
Timing of Payment
.
     (a) This Agreement is intended to comply with Code Section 409A and shall be interpreted accordingly. If Shares are to be paid to you, you will receive evidence of ownership of those Shares.
     (b) If payment is due and payable under Section 2(b), it will be made upon your death.
     (c) If payment is due and payable under Section 2(f), it will be made six (6) months after the termination of your employment (or six (6) months after your "separation from service" under Code Section 409A, if that is a different date); , that if you were an Insider or an "executive officer" of the Company under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules promulgated thereunder, at any time during the Performance Period, payment will be made in the calendar year after the end of the Performance Period but in no event earlier than six (6) months after the termination of your employment (or six months after your "separation from service" under Code Section 409A, if that is a different date).
provided, however
     (d) If payment is due and payable under Section 3(a), and the Change of Control that causes payment to be due and payable is a "change of control" as defined under Code Section 409A, such sum shall be paid to you within thirty (30) days of the Change of Control. If payment is due and payable under Section 3(a), and the Change of Control that causes payment to be due and payable is not a "change of control" as defined under Code Section 409A, such sum shall be paid to you at the time determined under Section 8(e).
     (e) If payment is due and payable under the Standard Performance Terms and you have chosen to defer payment under an applicable deferred compensation plan offered by the Company or an Affiliate, payment will be made at the time determined under that plan. If payment is due and payable
 
under the Standard Performance Terms and you have not chosen to defer payment under an applicable deferred compensation plan offered by the Company or an Affiliate, payment will be made in the calendar year after the end of the Performance Period.
     For purpose of this Agreement, "Closing Price" will mean the closing price of a Share as reported in the principal consolidated transaction reporting system for the New York Stock Exchange (or on such other recognized quotation system on which the trading prices of the Shares are quoted at the relevant time), or in the event that there are no Share transactions reported on such tape or other system on the applicable date, the closing price on the immediately preceding date on which Share transactions were reported. Closing Price shall constitute "Fair Market Value" under the Plan for all purposes related to your Performance Shares.
9. 
Closing Price
.
     This Agreement is not a contract of employment and it is not a guarantee of employment for life or any period of time. Nothing in this Agreement interferes with or limits in any way the right of the Company or an Affiliate to terminate your employment at any time. This Agreement does not give you any right to continue in the employ of the Company or an Affiliate.
10. 
No Guarantee of Employment
.
     This Agreement will be construed in accordance with and governed by the laws of the State of Delaware, regardless of the law that might be applied under principles of conflict of laws. Any action to enforce this Agreement or any action otherwise regarding this Agreement must be brought in a court in the State of New York, to which jurisdiction the Company and you consent.
11. 
Governing Law; Choice of Forum
.
     For purposes of this Agreement, "Committee" includes any direct or indirect delegate of the Committee as defined in the Plan and (unless otherwise indicated) the word "Section" refers to a Section in this Agreement. Any other capitalized word used in this Agreement and not defined in this Agreement, including each form of that word, is defined in the Plan. Any determination or interpretation by the Committee pursuant to this Agreement will be final and conclusive. In the event of a conflict between any term of this Agreement and the terms of the Plan, the terms of the Plan control. This Agreement and the Plan represent the entire agreement between you and the Company, and you and all Affiliates, regarding your Performance Shares. No promises, terms, or agreements of any kind regarding your Performance Shares that are not set forth, or referred to, in this Agreement or in the Plan are part of this Agreement. In the event any provision of this Agreement is held illegal or invalid, the rest of this Agreement will remain enforceable. If you are an Employee of an Affiliate, your Performance Shares are being provided to you by the Company on behalf of that Affiliate, and the value of your Performance Shares will be considered a compensation obligation of that Affiliate. Your Performance Shares are not Shares and do not give you the rights of a holder of Shares. You will not be credited with additional Performance Shares on account of any dividend paid on Shares. The issuance of Shares or payment of cash pursuant to your Performance Shares is subject to all applicable laws, rules and regulations, and to any approvals by any governmental agencies or national securities exchanges as may be required. No Shares will be issued or no cash will be paid if that issuance or payment would result in a violation of applicable law, including the federal securities laws and any applicable state or foreign securities laws. Your Performance Shares are subject to the Company's performance-based compensation recoupment policy (which currently covers only officers or officer-equivalent employees of the Company and its Affiliates) in effect from time to time.
12. 
Miscellaneous
.
 
     The Committee has the exclusive right to amend this Agreement as long as the amendment does not adversely affect any of your previously-granted Awards in any material way (without your written consent) and is otherwise consistent with the Plan. The Company will give written notice to you (or, in the event of your death, to your beneficiary or estate) of any amendment as promptly as practicable after its adoption.
13. 
Amendments
.
     If you have not previously executed an Agreement to Protect Corporate Property ("Property Agreement"), the grant of your Performance Shares is subject to your execution of the Property Agreement provided to you by the Company with respect to this Agreement, and if you do not return a signed copy of the Property Agreement then this Agreement and the Performance Shares granted to you will be void. The Company may in its sole discretion allow an extension of time for you to return your signed Property Agreement.
14. 
Agreement to Protect Corporate Property
.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused its duly authorized officer to execute this Agreement, and you have executed this Agreement.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
NEW YORK, February 18, 2010  MetLife, Inc. (NYSE: MET) announced today that it has declared first quarter 2010 dividends of $0.2500000 per share on the company's floating rate non-cumulative preferred stock, Series A (NYSE: METPrA), and $0.4062500 per share on the company's 6.50% non-cumulative preferred stock, Series B (NYSE: METPrB), subject to the final confirmation that it has met the financial tests specified in the Series A and Series B preferred stock, which the company anticipates will be made on or about March 5, 2010, the earliest date permitted in accordance with the terms of the securities. Both dividends will be payable March 15, 2010 to shareholders of record as of February 28, 2010.
MetLife, Inc. is a leading provider of insurance, employee benefits and financial services with operations throughout the United States and the Latin America, Europe and Asia Pacific regions. Through its subsidiaries and affiliates, MetLife, Inc. reaches more than 70 million customers around the world and MetLife is the largest life insurer in the United States (based on life insurance in-force). The MetLife companies offer life insurance, annuities, auto and home insurance, retail banking and other financial services to individuals, as well as group insurance and retirement & savings products and services to corporations and other institutions. For more information, visit .
www.metlife.com
This press release may contain or incorporate by reference information that includes or is based upon forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements give expectations or forecasts of future events. These statements can be identified by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. They use words such as "anticipate," "estimate," "expect," "project," "intend," "plan," "believe" and other words and terms of similar meaning in connection with a discussion of future operating or financial performance. In particular, these include statements relating to future actions, prospective services or products, future performance or results of current and anticipated
 
services or products, sales efforts, expenses, the outcome of contingencies such as legal proceedings, trends in operations and financial results.
Any or all forward-looking statements may turn out to be wrong. They can be affected by inaccurate assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. Many such factors will be important in determining MetLife's actual future results. These statements are based on current expectations and the current economic environment. They involve a number of risks and uncertainties that are difficult to predict. These statements are not guarantees of future performance. Actual results could differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. Risks, uncertainties, and other factors that might cause such differences include the risks, uncertainties and other factors identified in MetLife, Inc.'s filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). These factors include: (i) difficult and adverse conditions in the global and domestic capital and credit markets; (ii) continued volatility and further deterioration of the capital and credit markets, which may affect MetLife's ability to seek financing or access its credit facilities; (iii) uncertainty about the effectiveness of the U.S. government's plan to stabilize the financial system by injecting capital into financial institutions, purchasing large amounts of illiquid, mortgage-backed and other securities from financial institutions, or otherwise; (iv) the impairment of other financial institutions; (v) potential liquidity and other risks resulting from MetLife's participation in a securities lending program and other transactions; (vi) exposure to financial and capital market risk; (vii) changes in general economic conditions, including the performance of financial markets and interest rates, which may affect MetLife's ability to raise capital, generate fee income and market-related revenue and finance statutory reserve requirements and may require MetLife to pledge collateral or make payments related to declines in value of specified assets; (viii) defaults on MetLife's mortgage and consumer loans; (ix) investment losses and defaults, and changes to investment valuations; (x) impairments of goodwill and realized losses or market value impairments to illiquid assets; (xi) unanticipated changes in industry trends; (xii) heightened competition, including with respect to pricing, entry of new competitors, consolidation of distributors, the development of new products by new and existing competitors and for personnel; (xiii) discrepancies between actual claims experience and assumptions used in setting prices for MetLife's products and establishing the liabilities for MetLife's obligations for future policy benefits and claims; (xiv) discrepancies between actual experience and assumptions used in establishing liabilities related to other contingencies or obligations; (xv) ineffectiveness of risk management policies and procedures, including with respect to guaranteed benefit riders (which may be affected by fair value adjustments arising from changes in MetLife's own credit spread) on certain of MetLife's variable annuity products; (xvi) increased expenses relating to pension and post-retirement benefit plans; (xvii) catastrophe losses; (xviii) changes in assumptions related to deferred policy acquisition costs, value of business acquired or goodwill; (xix) downgrades in MetLife, Inc.'s and its affiliates' claims paying ability, financial strength or credit ratings; (xx) economic, political, currency and other risks relating to MetLife's international operations; (xxi) availability and effectiveness of reinsurance or indemnification arrangements; (xxii) regulatory, legislative or tax changes that may affect the cost of, or demand for, MetLife's products or services; (xxiii) changes in accounting standards, practices and/or policies; (xxiv) adverse results or other consequences from litigation, arbitration or regulatory investigations; (xxv) deterioration in the experience of the "closed block" established in connection with the reorganization of Metropolitan Life Insurance Company; (xxvi) the effects
 
of business disruption or economic contraction due to terrorism, other hostilities, or natural catastrophes; (xxvii) MetLife's ability to identify and consummate on successful terms any future acquisitions, and to successfully integrate acquired businesses with minimal disruption; (xxviii) MetLife, Inc.'s primary reliance, as a holding company, on dividends from its subsidiaries to meet debt payment obligations and the applicable regulatory restrictions on the ability of the subsidiaries to pay such dividends; and (xxix) other risks and uncertainties described from time to time in MetLife, Inc.'s filings with the SEC.
MetLife, Inc. does not undertake any obligation to publicly correct or update any forward-looking statement if MetLife, Inc. later becomes aware that such statement is not likely to be achieved. Please consult any further disclosures MetLife, Inc. makes on related subjects in reports to the SEC.

Exhibit 99.2
NEW YORK, February 19, 2010  The board of directors of MetLife, Inc. (NYSE: MET) announced today that the company will hold its 2010 annual shareholders meeting on Tuesday, April 27, 2010. The board of directors established March 1, 2010 as the record date for determining shareholders entitled to vote at the meeting, which will begin at 1:00 p.m. (ET) and take place in New York City.
MetLife, Inc. is a leading provider of insurance, employee benefits and financial services with operations throughout the United States and the Latin America, Europe and Asia Pacific regions. Through its subsidiaries and affiliates, MetLife, Inc. reaches more than 70 million customers around the world and MetLife is the largest life insurer in the United States (based on life insurance in-force). The MetLife companies offer life insurance, annuities, auto and home insurance, retail banking and other financial services to individuals, as well as group insurance and retirement & savings products and services to corporations and other institutions. For more information, visit www.metlife.com.


