FILE:MET/MET-8K-20101206064955.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
Item 2.02.     Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
      The slide presentations attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1, and incorporated herein by reference, will be presented at MetLife, Inc.'s Investor Day Conference on December 6, 2010 and may be used by MetLife, Inc. in various other presentations to investors. The slide presentations are furnished and not filed pursuant to Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K.
Item 7.01.     Regulation FD.
      The slide presentations attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1, and incorporated herein by reference, will be presented at MetLife, Inc.'s Investor Day Conference on December 6, 2010 and may be used by MetLife, Inc. in various other presentations to investors. The slide presentations are furnished and not filed pursuant to Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K.
     On December 6, 2010, MetLife, Inc. issued a press release announcing 2011 guidance and expected 2010 financial results, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and is incorporated herein by reference. The press release is furnished and not filed pursuant to Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K.
Item 9.01.     Financial Statements and Exhibits.
      (a) Not applicable.
      (b) Not applicable.
      (c) Not applicable.
      (d) Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: December 6, 2010
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Gwenn L. Carr
Executive Vice President, Office of the Chairman MetLife, Inc.
Gwenn L. Carr is executive vice president, Office of the Chairman, for MetLife, Inc. In addition to serving as chief of staff for MetLife's chairman and CEO, C. Robert Henrikson, Carr is responsible for the shareholder services, corporate communications, executive services and corporate contributions organizations. She also is chairman of the board of MetLife Foundation.
In addition to providing counsel to MetLife's CEO, Carr also has worked closely with MetLife's board of directors over the course of her more than 10 year tenure at MetLife to provide counsel and direction on a number of strategic, corporate governance and communications initiatives. She also is the executive sponsor of MetLife's issues management council, a cross-functional team of senior-level MetLife managers that identifies potential reputation risks and the effectiveness of controls to mitigate their impact on the company. Carr joined MetLife as corporate secretary in 1999, a position she held until 2009 when she became a member of MetLife's executive group and assumed additional responsibilities. She was named chief of staff in 2007.
Prior to joining MetLife, Carr served as vice president, secretary and associate general counsel of ITT Corporation. She joined ITT in 1988 as senior counsel, corporate development, providing legal advice with respect to ITT's corporate acquisitions, divestures and mergers before being elected vice president and secretary of ITT in 1990.
Carr also has been a member of the law departments of AT&T and American Natural Resources Company. At both companies, in addition to providing legal advice with respect to corporate governance matters, Carr was responsible for providing counsel on corporate finance transactions, acquisitions, divestitures and strategic alliances, as well as compliance with federal securities laws. She also served as vice president and secretary of American Natural. Earlier in her career, she served as an assistant United States attorney for the Eastern District of Michigan.
Carr is a former director of the Lawyers Alliance for New York, a member of the Advisory Board of the Corporate Governance Institute at the University of Delaware and a former member of the IRRC Advisory Board. Carr has spoken frequently about corporate governance issues at seminars and conferences and has been a guest lecturer at Pace University Law School. Carr is a former chairman of the American Society of Corporate Secretaries, a former chairman of the Investor Responsibility Research Center and a former president of the Stockholder Relations Society of New York. She also previously was a director of the YWCA of the City of New York and the United Way of New York City. Carr is a graduate of Michigan State University and the MSU College of Law.
 
Kathleen A. Henkel
Executive Vice President, Human Resources MetLife, Inc.
Kathleen A. Henkel is executive vice president, human resources for MetLife, Inc. She was named head of human resources in July 2008, appointed executive vice president in March 2010 and is responsible for the global human resources operations of the company, which has more than 60,000 associates worldwide.
Previously, Henkel was a senior vice president in MetLife's Institutional Business from 2005 to 2008. In this role, she had profit and loss responsibility for the development, management and servicing of the following individual and group products: long-term care insurance, critical illness insurance, 401(k) and income annuities. She also had oversight of Hyatt Legal Plans, a MetLife company and the nation's largest provider of group legal plans, as well as MetLife's former subsidiary, Texas Life Insurance Company.
In 2005, Henkel led the successful integration of Travelers Life & Annuity and certain international insurance businesses, which MetLife acquired from Citigroup Inc. She also oversaw the negotiation of the 2006 sale of MetLife's 401(k) business to Great West Life and Annuity.
Henkel has spent her entire career at MetLife. She joined the company in 1966 as a clerk in the actuarial division of the group department and, since then, has held a number of leadership roles. From 1999 through 2004, Henkel served as the vice president in charge of MetLife's retirement & savings operations. Prior to that, she was, from 1992 to 1999, the vice president in charge of human resources and strategic planning for MetLife's pension business. In a previous role, Henkel assisted in the successful merger of MetLife's group, pension, small market and worksite marketing segments into what subsequently became MetLife's Institutional Business segment. She also oversaw MetLife's defined benefit operations.
Henkel is a board member of MetLife Global Operations Support Center Private Limited and MetLife Services East Private Limited. Previously, she served as the CEO and chairman of the board of Benefit Service Corporation, a former subsidiary of MetLife. She also has previously served as a board member of SPARK, the American Benefits Council and Long Term Care Partners, LLC. Henkel is a FINRA registered principal and a FLMA.
 
C. Robert (Rob) Henrikson
Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer MetLife, Inc.
C. Robert (Rob) Henrikson is chairman of the board, president and chief executive officer of MetLife, Inc. (NYSE: MET), a leading provider of insurance, annuities and employee benefit programs to 90 million customers worldwide.
Since becoming chairman and CEO in 2006, Henrikson has led MetLife to achieve record financial results, positioned the company to expand its leadership positions, and capitalized on emerging life, annuity and retirement markets around the globe. In November 2010, MetLife completed its acquisition of Alico. The transaction was the largest in MetLife's history and affirmed the company's position as an insurance and employee benefits powerhouse by expanding its presence to more than 60 countries. Today, MetLife counts over 90 of the top one hundred FORTUNE 500 companies among its corporate clients and is the largest life insurer in the U.S. and Mexico. MetLife also holds leading market positions in Japan, Latin America, Asia Pacific, Europe and the Middle East. For 2009, MetLife had $49.1 billion in operating revenue and ranked 51st on the FORTUNE 500. MetLife was named by as the best managed insurance company in the U.S. for 2008.
Forbes
In July 2010, Henrikson was appointed by President Barack Obama to the President's Export Council, the principal national advisory committee on international trade. He is the former chairman of the Financial Services Forum, immediate past chairman of the American Council of Life Insurers and currently serves on the boards of both organizations. Henrikson is also a board member of The New York Botanical Garden, the New York Philharmonic, the Partnership for New York City, and is a trustee of the American Museum of Natural History. He is a board member emeritus of the American Benefits Council.
Henrikson received a B.A. from the University of Pennsylvania and a J.D. from Emory University School of Law. His dedication to both institutions continues, serving as chairman of the board of Wharton's S.S. Huebner Foundation for Insurance Education and as a trustee of Emory University.
He resides in Connecticut with his wife of more than 30 years, Mary. They have two sons and two grandsons.
 
Steven A. Kandarian
Executive Vice President & Chief Investment Officer MetLife, Inc.
Steven A. Kandarian is executive vice president and chief investment officer of MetLife, Inc. He joined the company in April 2005. As CIO, Kandarian is responsible for MetLife's investment department and the company's more than $400 billion general account portfolio.
Since joining MetLife, Kandarian has overseen a number of initiatives and strategies that have benefited MetLife's investment portfolio and contributed to MetLife's bottom line. He has enhanced the company's focus on effective risk management and diversified its investment portfolio, in part through the $5.4 billion sale of Peter Cooper Village/Stuyvesant Town in 2006. Under Kandarian's leadership, MetLife identified the housing bubble early and reduced its exposure to sub-prime mortgage-backed securities, raised the overall quality of its corporate credit portfolio and increased its focus on low loan-to-value commercial and agricultural mortgages. In 2009, Kandarian assumed responsibility for MetLife's Global Brand and Marketing Services department. He also is overseeing MetLife's enterprise-wide corporate strategy work.
Prior to joining MetLife, Kandarian was the executive director of the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (PBGC) from 2001 to 2004. He made the public case for comprehensive reform of the pension funding rules to put the defined benefit system and the PBGC on a sound financial footing. In addition, under Kandarian's leadership, the PBGC adopted a new investment policy ensuring that, going forward, its assets be structured to better match liability durations.
Before joining the PBGC, Kandarian was founder and managing partner of Orion Partners, LP. From 1990 to 1993, he served as president and founder of Eagle Capital Holdings, where he formed a private merchant bank to sponsor equity investments in small and mid-sized businesses. From 1984 to 1990, he was managing director of Lee Capital Holdings, a private equity firm based in Boston. Kandarian began his career as an investment banker with Houston-based Rotan Mosle, Inc.
Kandarian is a member of the board of directors of MetLife Bank. He also is a member of the Economic Club of New York and is an advisory board member of the Center for Retirement Research at Boston College. He previously served as a member of the board of trustees for MassMutual Corporate Investors, MassMutual Participation Investors and MassMutual Premier Funds. He received a B.A. from Clark University, a J.D. from Georgetown University Law Center, and a M.B.A. from Harvard Business School.
 
Nicholas D. Latrenta
Executive Vice President & General Counsel MetLife, Inc.
Nicholas D. Latrenta is executive vice president and general counsel for MetLife, Inc. He was appointed to this position in May 2010. In addition to leading the company's global legal operations, he also oversees MetLife's corporate secretary's office, government and industry relations department and the corporate ethics and compliance group.
Prior to becoming general counsel, Latrenta served as senior chief counsel for MetLife's insurance group and had oversight of legal matters for MetLife's U.S. Business and International operations. Previously, he had served as chief counsel for MetLife's Institutional Business, ERISA and product tax legal group.
From October 2000 through June 2004, he was senior vice president, Institutional Business. In this role, he was responsible for the management, product development initiatives and positioning of MetLife's group life, disability, dental, long-term care and legal plans businesses and related marketing, planning, and business development activities. In 1999, Latrenta headed MetLife's International operations with responsibility for insurance operations in 11 countries outside of the U.S.
Prior to leading MetLife's international operations, Latrenta held several leadership roles in Institutional Business, including the company's Small Business Center, defined contribution group, structured settlement annuity business and certain other payout annuity businesses. He was promoted to senior vice president in 1997 after serving as a vice president in the business development and compliance unit of Institutional Business beginning in 1996. Prior to this role, he oversaw a segment of MetLife's retirement & savings business from 1993 to 1996.
In 1991, Latrenta was appointed vice president and secretary of the company after previously serving in key roles in MetLife's Strategic Research Group, which was responsible for researching and making recommendations on issues of strategic importance to the company, and the company's International operations. Latrenta also served as a vice president in the actuarial department and held several positions in MetLife's law department. He joined MetLife in 1969.
Latrenta received a B.B.A. degree, summa cum laude, in business administration from the College of Insurance in 1974 and a J.D. degree, cum laude, from Seton Hall Law School in 1979. He is a fellow of the Life Management Institute (FLMI), a chartered life underwriter (CLU) and is admitted to practice law in both New York and New Jersey.
 
Maria R. Morris
Executive Vice President, Technology & Operations MetLife, Inc.
Maria R. Morris is executive vice president and head of MetLife's global Technology & Operations organization. She was appointed to this position in January 2008. In this role, Morris oversees MetLife's information technology group, the customer sales and service group, global capability sourcing, global procurement, corporate real estate, internal audit and business and operations management. She is accountable for a $1.5 billion IT portfolio and oversees over $2.5 billion in procurable and real estate occupancy spend for MetLife.
Under Morris' stewardship, Technology & Operations has been a strong contributor to MetLife's Operational Excellence initiative and has increased capacity and operational capabilities for the enterprise. Her organization is responsible for managing aspects of the integration of the Alico acquisition  including governance, program management, the replatforming of technology applications and infrastructure and expense synergies.
In her career, Morris has successfully led and transformed large organizations to grow businesses and expand profitability. She previously served as executive vice president, employee benefits sales and had oversight of the group insurance and retirement and savings sales forces. Under Morris's leadership, the business achieved record sales and drove strong revenue and earnings growth.
Beginning in 2003, Morris served as senior vice president of group insurance and voluntary benefits sales and service operations. She also led the individual disability business. As the vice president of MetLife's group disability business from 2000 to 2003, Morris had profit and loss responsibility overseeing product development and management as well as claims operations. From 1996 to 2000, Morris had similar responsibilities for MetLife's dental product and also managed the preferred dentist network. Under her leadership, both revenue and profitability grew and an efficient claims model was implemented. Morris joined MetLife in 1984.
Morris serves as a member of the board of directors for MetLife Global Operations Support Center Private Limited, MetLife Securities, Inc., MetLife Property and Casualty and MetLife Foundation. She serves as chairman of the board of directors for INROADS, Inc. and also serves on the board of the All Stars Project, Inc. Morris is a selected member of the YWCA Academy of Women Achievers. In 2005, she was recognized by magazine as one of a number of "Women to Watch." She holds a B.A. from Franklin and Marshall College, magna cum laude, where she was elected to Phi Beta Kappa.
Profiles in Diversity Journal
 
William J. Mullaney
President, U.S. Business MetLife, Inc.
William J. Mullaney is president, U.S. Business, for MetLife, Inc. Mullaney  who was named to this position in August 2009  oversees all of MetLife's insurance, retirement and corporate benefit funding businesses in the United States.
MetLife is a leading provider of life insurance, annuities, dental and disability insurance as well as retirement and savings products. The U.S. Business serves over 60,000 group customers, including over 90 of the top one hundred FORTUNE 500 companies, and provides protection and retirement solutions to millions of individuals. In 2009, U.S. Business  which consists of Insurance Products, Retirement Products, Corporate Benefit Funding and Auto & Home  had $42.1 billion in operating revenues.
From January 2007 through July 2009, Mullaney was president, Institutional Business, which provided insurance and retirement benefits to employers of all sizes in the United States. During his first year as the head of Institutional Business, Mullaney oversaw the achievement of record top- and bottom-line results. At the end of 2008, according to LIMRA, MetLife continued to hold the number one position in many group insurance markets, including group life, group dental, institutional annuities and group disability.
Previously, Mullaney served as the president of Auto & Home, MetLife's personal lines property & casualty subsidiary that insures nearly 4 million autos and homes nationwide. Under his leadership, Auto & Home delivered record operating earnings despite some of the worst hurricanes in U.S. history. At the same time, the company distinguished itself for its quick and compassionate response to customers affected by these natural disasters. From 2002 through 2004, Mullaney served as senior vice president for claims and customer service at Auto & Home, where he oversaw claims, business operations and customer service. From 1998 to 2002, he was responsible for MetLife's voluntary benefits business. He joined MetLife in 1982.
Mullaney serves as a member of the board of directors for MetLife Auto & Home, MetLife Europe Limited, MetLife Bank and MetLife Foundation. He also was the chairman of the New York Blood Center's Volunteer Leadership Campaign from 2007 to 2009. In 2007, 2008 and 2009, Mullaney was named to "Business 100," recognizing the top 100 Irish-American business leaders in the United States. He received a B.A. from the University of Pittsburgh, his M.B.A. from Pace University and a chartered life underwriter designation from The American College.
Irish America Magazine's
 
Conor Murphy
Vice President, Investor Relations MetLife
Conor Murphy is vice president and head of investor relations for MetLife. He was appointed to this position in November 2007.
In this role, Murphy manages and coordinates the presentation of MetLife's financial results, messages and strategies to the analyst and investor community.
Before being named to his current position, Murphy was vice president and chief financial officer for MetLife's investments department since July 2002. His various responsibilities included financial reporting and analysis, investment income projections, performance measurement and attribution, portfolio valuation and the Sarbanes-Oxley processes for investments.
Prior to joining the investments department, Murphy served in MetLife's internal audit department, where he was responsible for various groups, including investments and investment affiliate auditing operations. Affiliate operations included investment advisor, mutual fund, broker-dealer and trust company subsidiaries. He was also responsible for the Reinsurance Group of America, Incorporated (RGA) audit functions. MetLife, Inc. was the beneficial owner of approximately 52% of RGA's outstanding shares before divesting its majority stake in the company in September 2008.
Murphy joined MetLife in October 2000 after seven years with PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, where he served in the New York Financial Services Industry Practice. Prior to PricewaterhouseCoopers, he spent five years with Grant Thornton LLP in Dublin, Ireland.
Murphy is a founding trustee of Cristo Rey New York High School and a past president of the Association of Chartered Accountants in the United States. In 2008, 2009 and 2010, Murphy was among a select group of 50 Irish-American business leaders honored at the annual "Wall Street 50" awards.
He is a certified public accountant and a member of the Massachusetts Society of CPAs. Murphy is also a chartered accountant and a fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in Ireland.
 
William J. Toppeta
President, International MetLife, Inc.
William J. Toppeta is president, International, for MetLife, Inc. He was named to this position in July 2001 and is responsible for all of the company's insurance and employee benefits businesses outside the United States.
Toppeta is leading the integration of the largest acquisition in MetLife's history, combining the international organization of MetLife and Alico. With the acquisition of Alico, MetLife now holds leading market positions in Japan, Latin America, Asia Pacific, Europe and the Middle East. MetLife's international network now comprises more than 60 countries and the company serves some 90 million customers.
Since Toppeta was named president, International's operating revenues have grown from $1.2 billion in 2001 to $4.9 billion in the first nine months of 2010. He has focused MetLife's International business on growth  both organically and through acquisitions. He was the principal architect of MetLife's acquisition and integration of Aseguradora Hidalgo S.A. in Mexico, where MetLife is now the largest life insurer. Toppeta led the international integration of MetLife's 2005 acquisition of substantially all of Citigroup Inc.'s international insurance businesses significantly expanding the company's presence outside the U.S. Under his leadership, MetLife has grown its operations in Korea, Chile, Brazil, India and China.
Prior to assuming his role leading International, Toppeta served as MetLife's president of client services and chief administrative officer from 1999 to 2001. Prior to this position, he oversaw MetLife's Individual Business segment after having led the U.S. career agency sales force for three years. In 1995, he was named senior vice president to lead MetLife's corporate reengineering department.
After being named vice president and deputy general manager of MetLife's Canadian operations in 1992, he became president and CEO of Metropolitan Life's Canadian operations in 1993. Early in his career, Toppeta served as executive assistant to former CEO Richard R. Shinn. He began his career at MetLife in 1973 as an attorney in the law department.
Toppeta is chairman of the Coalition of Services Industries, chairman of the International Committee of the American Council of Life Insurers and a member of the Executive Committee of the U.S.  Korea Business Council. He also serves on the boards of directors of the Council of the Americas and of the Korea Society. He is a director of the MetLife Foundation and several MetLife subsidiaries. Toppeta serves as a member of the Executive Committee of the Fordham University President's Council. He holds a B.A. from Fordham College as well as a J.D. and a L.L.M from New York University's School of Law.
 
William J. Wheeler
Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer MetLife, Inc.
William J. Wheeler is executive vice president and chief financial officer of MetLife, Inc. He was named to this position in December 2003.
As chief financial officer, Wheeler is responsible for overseeing all financial management matters for MetLife, including financial reporting, treasury, corporate actuarial, risk management, tax, investor relations and mergers and acquisitions. Wheeler is also the executive officer responsible for MetLife Bank, which offers retail banking products, including money market accounts, certificates of deposit, residential mortgages and reverse mortgages.
Most recently, Wheeler was a key architect of MetLife's acquisition of Alico, the largest transaction in MetLife's history. He also has led several other strategic transactions, including the company's tax-free split-off of its majority stake in Reinsurance Group of America, Incorporated in 2008 and the acquisition of Travelers Life & Annuity and related international insurance businesses from Citigroup Inc. in 2005. Wheeler oversaw a number of capital management strategies and related transactions that enhanced MetLife's financial strength and increased its liquidity at a time of severe capital market constraints, while simultaneously achieving significant annualized expense savings and implementing a number of risk management initiatives.
Prior to becoming CFO, Wheeler oversaw business development, product management and marketing activities for the company's Individual Business segment and also served as chief financial officer of Institutional Business, overseeing financial reporting and planning, as well as expense management for that segment. Wheeler joined MetLife in 1997 as treasurer and played a key role in preparing MetLife to become a public company. He oversaw certain aspects of the demutualization, the development of the investor relations and shareholder services organizations, and management of the initial public offering process.
Before joining MetLife, Wheeler was an investment banker for ten years at Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette (DLJ). During his career at DLJ, he managed a variety of transactions, including equity and debt financings, mergers and acquisitions, leveraged buyouts, financial advisory and restructurings in a number of different industries, including the insurance industry.
Wheeler is a member of Wabash College's board of trustees. He holds an M.B.A. from Harvard Business School and also received an A.B., magna cum laude, from Wabash College and was elected to Phi Beta Kappa.

Exhibit 99.2
NEW YORK, December 6, 2010  MetLife, Inc. (NYSE: MET) today announced several financial targets for 2011 as well as its expected results for the fourth quarter and full year 2010. Members of MetLife's senior management team will review these financial projections with investors and discuss the company's businesses at MetLife's annual investor conference beginning at 8:00 a.m. (ET) today.
2011 Guidance
"In 2011, MetLife will continue to generate strong growth with operating earnings expected to increase 38% over 2010 to between $5.1 billion and $5.5 billion ($4.75 to $5.15 per share)," said C. Robert Henrikson, chairman, president & chief executive officer of MetLife, Inc. "With our leading positions in the U.S. and our expanded global reach resulting from the acquisition of Alico, we are poised to achieve strong results next year and beyond. We plan to grow premiums, fees & other revenues 30% next year to between $45.8 billion and $47.0 billion, invest in our expanding businesses around the world and maintain our disciplined approach to underwriting and expense management.
1
2
"Our continuing efforts to increase value for our shareholders will position us to deliver an improved operating return on equity (ROE) of approximately 11% for 2011 and generate further ROE improvements in the years that follow," added Henrikson.
 
 
Estimated Full Year 2010 Results
Premiums, fees & other revenues for 2010 are expected to be between $35.6 billion and $36.0 billion, up approximately 5% from $34.0 billion in 2009. Operating earnings for 2010 are expected to be between $3.8 billion and $3.9 billion ($4.26 to $4.36 per share) compared with $2.4 billion ($2.87 per share) in 2009.
Book value per share at year-end 2010 is expected to be between $44.50 and $45.85, up 19% from $37.96 at year-end 2009.
"As we close out 2010, MetLife expects to generate solid growth in premiums, fees & other revenues, higher net investment income and a 62% increase in operating earnings compared with 2009," continued Henrikson. "We have accomplished a tremendous amount this year, strategically growing our businesses while successfully completing the largest acquisition in this company's history. Furthermore, we reached $700 million in pre-tax annualized savings from our Operational Excellence initiative this year  $100 million over our goal. All of these achievements lay a solid foundation for future growth, despite the challenging macro-economic environment."
MetLife expects full year 2010 net income to be between $2.8 billion and $3.2 billion ($3.13 to $3.57 per share), which reflects net investment and net derivative gains and losses. For 2009, MetLife reported a net loss of $2.4 billion ($2.89 per share), which included $3.3 billion, after tax, in derivative losses. MetLife uses derivatives  in connection with its broader portfolio management strategy  to hedge a number of risks, including changes in interest rates and fluctuations in foreign currencies. Movement in interest rates, foreign currencies and MetLife's own credit spread  which impacts the valuation of certain insurance liabilities  can generate derivative gains or losses. Derivative gains or losses related to MetLife's own credit spread do not have an economic impact on the company.
Estimated Fourth Quarter 2010 Results
Premiums, fees & other revenues for the fourth quarter of 2010 are expected to be between $9.5 billion and $9.9 billion, up 4% from $9.3 billion in the fourth quarter of 2009. Operating earnings for the fourth quarter of 2010 are expected to be between $1.1 billion and $1.2 billion ($1.04 to $1.14 per share), up 39% from $793 million ($0.96 per share) in the fourth quarter of 2009.
For the fourth quarter of 2010, MetLife expects net income to be between $170 million and $570 million ($0.17 to $0.56 per share), compared with $289 million ($0.35 per share) in the fourth quarter of 2009.
Per share calculations for full year and fourth quarter 2010 are based on 890.2 million and 1,014.2 million shares outstanding, respectively. Per share calculations for 2011 are based on 1,066.3 million average shares outstanding.
MetLife will hold its annual investor conference today from 8:00 a.m. to approximately 12:30 p.m. (ET). A live audio and video Webcast of the conference, along with the presentation
Audio & Video Webcast
 
materials, will be available at www.metlife.com (through a link on the Investor Relations page). A replay of the conference will be available at MetLife's Web site beginning shortly after the conference ends on Monday, December 6, until 11:59 p.m. (ET) on Monday, December 13, 2010. The conference and the accompanying presentation materials will include statements relating to the business, operations, management and financial results of MetLife, Inc., including its prospects for the remainder of 2010, as well as for 2011 and beyond.
Assumptions included in MetLife's estimated fourth quarter and full year 2010 and projected full year 2011 results are discussed in detail in the slide presentations to be presented at MetLife's annual investor conference, which are included in a Current Report on Form 8-K that is being furnished today to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
All references in this press release (except in this section) to net income (loss), net income (loss) per share, operating earnings and operating earnings per share should be read as net income (loss) available to MetLife, Inc.'s common shareholders, net income (loss) available to MetLife, Inc.'s common shareholders per diluted common share, operating earnings available to common shareholders and operating earnings available to common shareholders per diluted common share, respectively.
Non-GAAP and Other Financial Disclosures
The historical and forward-looking financial information presented in this press release include performance measures which are based on methodologies other than generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"). MetLife, Inc. analyzes its performance using financial measures, such as operating earnings, operating revenues, operating expenses, operating earnings available to common shareholders and operating earnings available to common shareholders per diluted common share, that are not based on GAAP. MetLife believes the presentation of operating earnings and operating earnings available to common shareholders as MetLife measures it for management purposes enhances the understanding of its performance by highlighting the results of operations and the underlying profitability drivers of the businesses. Operating earnings, operating revenues, operating expenses, operating earnings available to common shareholders, operating earnings available to common shareholders per diluted common share and operating return on common equity should not be viewed as substitutes for GAAP net income (loss) from continuing operations, net of income tax, GAAP revenues, GAAP expenses, GAAP net income (loss) available to MetLife, Inc.'s common shareholders, GAAP net income (loss) available to MetLife, Inc.'s common shareholders per diluted common share, and return on common equity, respectively.
Operating earnings is the measure of segment profit or loss that MetLife uses to evaluate segment performance and allocate resources and, consistent with GAAP accounting guidance for segment reporting, is MetLife's measure of segment performance. Operating earnings is also a measure by which MetLife senior management's and many other employees' performance is evaluated for the purposes of determining their compensation under applicable compensation plans.
Operating earnings is defined as operating revenues less operating expenses, net of income tax. Operating earnings available to common shareholders is defined as operating earnings less
 
preferred stock dividends and operating earnings available to common shareholders per diluted common share is calculated by dividing operating earnings available to common shareholders by the number of weighted average diluted common shares outstanding for the period indicated.
Operating revenues is defined as GAAP revenues (i) less net investment gains (losses) and net derivative gains (losses), (ii) less amortization of unearned revenue related to net investment gains (losses) and net derivative gains (losses), (iii) plus scheduled periodic settlement payments on derivatives that are hedges of investments but do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment, (iv) plus income from discontinued real estate operations and (v) plus, for operating joint ventures reported under the equity method of accounting, the aforementioned adjustments, those identified in the definition of operating expenses and changes in fair value of hedges of operating joint venture liabilities, all net of income tax.
Operating expenses is defined as GAAP expenses (i) less changes in policyholder benefits associated with asset value fluctuations related to experience-rated contractholder liabilities and certain inflation-indexed liabilities, (ii) less costs related to business combinations and noncontrolling interests, (iii) less amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs and value of business acquired and changes in the policyholder dividend obligation related to net investment gains (losses) and net derivative gains (losses) and (iv) plus scheduled periodic settlement payments on derivatives that are hedges of policyholder account balances but do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment.
In addition, operating revenues and operating expenses do not reflect the consolidation of certain securitization entities that are variable interest entities as required under GAAP.
Operating return on common equity is calculated by dividing operating earnings available to common shareholders by average MetLife, Inc. common equity for the period indicated, excluding accumulated other comprehensive income.
For the historical periods presented, reconciliations of non-GAAP measures used in this press release to the most directly comparable GAAP measures are included in either the slide presentations or the Appendix to the presentations and are on the Investor Relations portion of MetLife's website (www.metlife.com). Additional information about MetLife's historical financial results is also available in MetLife's Quarterly Financial Supplements for the corresponding periods which may be accessed through MetLife's website. The non-GAAP measures used in this press release should not be viewed as substitutes for the most directly comparable GAAP measures.
In this press release, MetLife provides guidance on its future earnings, earnings per diluted common share and return on common equity on an operating and non-GAAP basis. A reconciliation of the non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures is not accessible on a forward-looking basis because MetLife believes it is not possible to provide other than a range of net investment gains and losses, which can fluctuate significantly within or without the range and from period to period and may have a significant impact on GAAP net income.
 
MetLife, Inc. is a leading global provider of insurance, annuities and employee benefit programs, serving 90 million customers in over 60 countries. Through its subsidiaries and affiliates, MetLife holds leading market positions in the United States, Japan, Latin America, Asia Pacific, Europe and the Middle East. For more information, visit www.metlife.com.
About MetLife
This press release may contain or incorporate by reference information that includes or is based upon forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements give expectations or forecasts of future events. These statements can be identified by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. They use words such as "anticipate," "estimate," "expect," "project," "intend," "plan," "believe" and other words and terms of similar meaning in connection with a discussion of future operating or financial performance. In particular, these include statements relating to future actions, prospective services or products, future performance or results of current and anticipated services or products, sales efforts, expenses, the outcome of contingencies such as legal proceedings, trends in operations and financial results.
Any or all forward-looking statements may turn out to be wrong. They can be affected by inaccurate assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. Many such factors will be important in determining the actual future results of MetLife, Inc. and its subsidiaries. These statements are based on current expectations and the current economic environment. They involve a number of risks and uncertainties that are difficult to predict. These statements are not guarantees of future performance. Actual results could differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. Risks, uncertainties, and other factors that might cause such differences include the risks, uncertainties and other factors identified in MetLife, Inc.'s filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"). These factors include: (1) difficult conditions in the global capital markets; (2) increased volatility and disruption of the capital and credit markets, which may affect our ability to seek financing or access our credit facilities; (3) uncertainty about the effectiveness of the U.S. government's programs to stabilize the financial system, the imposition of fees relating thereto, or the promulgation of additional regulations; (4) impact of comprehensive financial services regulation reform on us; (5) exposure to financial and capital market risk; (6) changes in general economic conditions, including the performance of financial markets and interest rates, which may affect our ability to raise capital, generate fee income and market-related revenue and finance statutory reserve requirements and may require us to pledge collateral or make payments related to declines in value of specified assets; (7) potential liquidity and other risks resulting from our participation in a securities lending program and other transactions; (8) investment losses and defaults, and changes to investment valuations; (9) impairments of goodwill and realized losses or market value impairments to illiquid assets; (10) defaults on our mortgage loans; (11) the impairment of other financial institutions that could adversely affect our investments or business; (12) our ability to address unforeseen liabilities, asset impairments, loss of key contractual relationships, or rating actions arising from acquisitions or dispositions, including our acquisition of American Life Insurance Company ("Alico"), a subsidiary of Alico Holdings LLC ("Alico Holdings"), and Delaware American Life Insurance Company (collectively, the "Acquisition") and to successfully integrate and manage the growth of acquired businesses with minimal disruption; (13) uncertainty with respect to the outcome of the closing agreement entered into between Alico and the United States Internal Revenue Service in connection with the Acquisition; (14) uncertainty with respect to the making of elections under Section 338 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and any benefits therefrom, in connection with the Acquisition; (15) the dilutive impact on our stockholders resulting from the issuance of equity securities to Alico Holdings in connection with the Acquisition; (16) downward pressure on our stock price as a result of Alico Holdings' ability to sell its equity securities; (17) the conditional payment obligation of approximately $300 million to Alico Holdings if the conversion of the preferred stock issued to Alico Holdings in connection with the Acquisition into our common stock is not approved; (18) economic, political, currency and other risks relating to our international operations, including with respect to fluctuations of exchange rates; (19) our primary reliance, as a holding company, on dividends from our subsidiaries to meet debt payment obligations and the applicable regulatory restrictions on the ability of the subsidiaries to pay such dividends; (20) downgrades in our and our affiliates' claims paying ability, financial strength or credit ratings; (21) ineffectiveness of risk management policies and procedures; (22) availability and effectiveness of reinsurance or indemnification arrangements, as well as default or failure of counterparties to perform; (23) discrepancies between actual claims experience and assumptions used in setting prices for our products and establishing the liabilities for our obligations for future policy benefits and claims; (24) catastrophe losses; (25) heightened competition, including with respect to pricing, entry of new competitors, consolidation of distributors, the development of new products by new and
 
existing competitors, distribution of amounts available under U.S. government programs, and for personnel; (26) unanticipated changes in industry trends; (27) changes in accounting standards, practices and/or policies; (28) changes in assumptions related to deferred policy acquisition costs, deferred sales inducements, value of business acquired or goodwill; (29) increased expenses relating to pension and postretirement benefit plans, as well as health care and other employee benefits; (30) exposure to losses related to variable annuity guarantee benefits, including from significant and sustained downturns or extreme volatility in equity markets, reduced interest rates, unanticipated policyholder behavior, mortality or longevity, and the adjustment for nonperformance risk; (31) deterioration in the experience of the "closed block" established in connection with the reorganization of Metropolitan Life Insurance Company; (32) adverse results or other consequences from litigation, arbitration or regulatory investigations; (33) inability to protect our intellectual property rights or claims of infringement of the intellectual property rights of others, (34) discrepancies between actual experience and assumptions used in establishing liabilities related to other contingencies or obligations; (35) regulatory, legislative or tax changes relating to our insurance, banking, international, or other operations that may affect the cost of, or demand for, our products or services, impair our ability to attract and retain talented and experienced management and other employees, or increase the cost or administrative burdens of providing benefits to employees; (36) the effects of business disruption or economic contraction due to terrorism, other hostilities, or natural catastrophes, including any related impact on our disaster recovery systems and management continuity planning which could impair our ability to conduct business effectively; (37) the effectiveness of our programs and practices in avoiding giving our associates incentives to take excessive risks; and (38) other risks and uncertainties described from time to time in MetLife, Inc.'s filings with the SEC.
We do not undertake any obligation to publicly correct or update any forward-looking statement if we later become aware that such statement is not likely to be achieved. Please consult any further disclosures MetLife, Inc. makes on related subjects in reports to the SEC.


