FILE:MET/MET-8K-20110623161550.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
TEXT:
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
Table of Contents
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 5.07 Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.
In the proxy statement that MetLife, Inc. (the "Company") provided to shareholders in connection with the Company's 2011 annual stockholder meeting (the "Annual Meeting"), the Company's Board of Directors recommended that the stockholders vote, on an advisory basis, in favor of an annual frequency for future "say-on-pay" votes. Say-on-pay votes are periodic, nonbinding stockholder votes to approve the compensation paid to the Company's named executive officers as disclosed in the Company's proxy statements, and are required under Section 14A of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act").
At the Annual Meeting on April 26, 2011, approximately 93% of the shares voting on the matter voted in favor of an annual frequency for say-on-pay votes. On June 21, 2011, the Company's Board of Directors approved an annual frequency for future say-on-pay votes. As a result, the Company expects that a say-on-pay vote will be held each year through 2017, when the next stockholder vote on the frequency of say-on-pay votes is required under the Exchange Act.
The results of the stockholder votes at the Annual meeting were disclosed by the Company on a Current Report on Form 8-K filed on April 29, 2011 (the "Original Report"). This Current Report on Form 8-K/A amends the Original Report solely for the purpose of disclosing the Company's decision on the frequency of future say-on-pay votes.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: June 23, 2011


