FILE:MET/MET-8K-20111028162321.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 5.02     Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
     On October 25, 2011, the Board of Directors (the "Board") of MetLife, Inc. (the "Company") approved cash fees of $33,333 to C. Robert Henrikson for his services as non-executive Chairman from November 1, 2011 through December 31, 2011. Mr. Henrikson will also receive a pro rata portion of the annual retainer fees provided under the Company's Board compensation arrangements for services as a director during this period: $43,000 split equally between cash and shares of the Company's common stock based on the closing price of those shares on the date of grant, November 1, 2011. As previously disclosed, Mr. Henrikson will no longer serve as an employee beginning on November 1, 2011.
Item 7.01.     Regulation FD Disclosure.
     On October 25, 2011, the Company issued a press release announcing: (i) that the Board had declared an annual dividend on common stock; and (ii) commenting on Company capital distribution matters. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibits 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference. The press release is furnished and not filed pursuant to Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K.
Item 9.01     Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     (a) Not applicable
     (b) Not applicable.
     (c) Not applicable.
     (d) Exhibits
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: October 28, 2011
Table of Contents

Exhibit 99.1
NEW YORK, October 25, 2011  The board of directors of MetLife, Inc. (NYSE: MET) today declared an annual common stock dividend for 2011 of $0.74 per common share  unchanged from 2010. The dividend will be payable on December 14, 2011 to shareholders of record as of November 9, 2011.
While MetLife's business activities are predominantly in the insurance sector, by virtue of its ownership of MetLife Bank, it is a bank holding company. As such, MetLife's capital planning and distribution activities relating to dividend increases and stock repurchases are subject to prior review and approval by the Federal Reserve, and it will participate in the Federal Reserve 2012 Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review.
After a thorough analysis, MetLife recently submitted to the Federal Reserve for approval a capital distribution plan that included both an increase in MetLife's annual dividend as well as the resumption of stock repurchases.
The Federal Reserve has concluded that the company's planned capital actions should be tested under a revised adverse macroeconomic scenario which is being developed for those firms that will participate in the 2012 Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review. As a result, the Federal Reserve did not approve the company's planned dividend increase and other proposed capital actions at this time.
"MetLife is well capitalized and is firmly committed to creating shareholder value and returning capital to its shareholders. We are disappointed that we cannot commence increased capital actions now, as our analysis shows that the company's current capital level and financial strength support capital action increases. We look forward to seeking and gaining approval of our capital plan from the Federal Reserve early next year. Moreover, increasing our capital actions in this
 
current economic environment and in this time of high unemployment would prove beneficial to the economy as our shareholders re-deploy these funds in a productive manner," said Steven A. Kandarian, president and chief executive officer of MetLife, Inc.
"At the same time, we continue to move forward on our plans to explore the sale of the depository business and the mortgage origination activity conducted at MetLife Bank and to take the necessary steps to no longer be a bank holding company. As I have previously said, this will ensure that MetLife is able to operate on a level regulatory playing field with other insurance companies," added Kandarian.
MetLife, Inc. is a leading global provider of insurance, annuities and employee benefit programs, serving 90 million customers in over 50 countries. Through its subsidiaries and affiliates, MetLife holds leading market positions in the United States, Japan, Latin America, Asia Pacific, Europe and the Middle East. For more information, visit www.metlife.com.
This press release may contain or incorporate by reference information that includes or is based upon forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements give expectations or forecasts of future events. These statements can be identified by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. They use words such as "anticipate," "estimate," "expect," "project," "intend," "plan," "believe" and other words and terms of similar meaning in connection with a discussion of future operating or financial performance. In particular, these include statements relating to future actions, prospective services or products, future performance or results of current and anticipated services or products, sales efforts, expenses, the outcome of contingencies such as legal proceedings, trends in operations and financial results.
Any or all forward-looking statements may turn out to be wrong. They can be affected by inaccurate assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. Many such factors will be important in determining the actual future results of MetLife, Inc., its subsidiaries and affiliates. These statements are based on current expectations and the current economic environment. They involve a number of risks and uncertainties that are difficult to predict. These statements are not guarantees of future performance. Actual results could differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. Risks, uncertainties, and other factors that might cause such differences include the risks, uncertainties and other factors identified in MetLife, Inc.'s filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"). These factors include: (1) difficult conditions in the global capital markets; (2) the delay by Congress in raising the statutory debt limit of the U.S., as well as rating agency downgrades of U.S. Treasury securities; (3) increased volatility and disruption of the capital and credit markets, which may affect our ability to seek financing or access our credit facilities; (4) uncertainty about the effectiveness of the U.S. government's programs to stabilize the financial system, the imposition of fees relating thereto, or the promulgation of additional regulations; (5) impact of comprehensive financial services regulation reform on us; (6) exposure to financial and capital market risk; (7) changes in general economic conditions, including the performance of financial markets and interest rates, which may affect our ability to raise capital, generate fee income and market-related revenue and finance statutory reserve requirements and may require us to pledge collateral or make payments related to declines in value of specified assets; (8) potential liquidity and other risks resulting from our participation in a securities lending program and other transactions; (9) investment losses and defaults, and changes to investment valuations; (10) impairments of goodwill and realized losses or market value impairments to illiquid assets; (11) defaults on our mortgage loans; (12) the impairment of other financial institutions that could adversely affect our investments or business; (13) our ability to address unforeseen liabilities, asset impairments, loss of key contractual relationships, or rating actions arising from acquisitions or dispositions, including our acquisition of American Life Insurance Company and Delaware American Life Insurance Company (collectively, "ALICO") and to successfully integrate and manage the growth of acquired businesses with minimal disruption; (14) uncertainty with respect to the outcome of the closing agreement entered into with the United States Internal Revenue Service in connection with the acquisition of ALICO; (15) uncertainty with respect to any incremental tax benefits resulting from the elections made for ALICO and certain of its subsidiaries under Section 338 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended; (16) the dilutive impact on our stockholders resulting from the issuance of equity securities in connection with the acquisition of ALICO or otherwise; (17) economic, political, currency and other risks relating to
 
our international operations, including with respect to fluctuations of exchange rates; (18) our primary reliance, as a holding company, on dividends from our subsidiaries to meet debt payment obligations and the applicable regulatory restrictions on the ability of the subsidiaries to pay such dividends; (19) downgrades in our claims paying ability, financial strength or credit ratings; (20) ineffectiveness of risk management policies and procedures; (21) availability and effectiveness of reinsurance or indemnification arrangements, as well as default or failure of counterparties to perform; (22) discrepancies between actual claims experience and assumptions used in setting prices for our products and establishing the liabilities for our obligations for future policy benefits and claims; (23) catastrophe losses; (24) heightened competition, including with respect to pricing, entry of new competitors, consolidation of distributors, the development of new products by new and existing competitors, distribution of amounts available under U.S. government programs, and for personnel; (25) unanticipated changes in industry trends; (26) changes in accounting standards, practices and/or policies; (27) changes in assumptions related to deferred policy acquisition costs, deferred sales inducements, value of business acquired or goodwill; (28) increased expenses relating to pension and postretirement benefit plans, as well as health care and other employee benefits; (29) exposure to losses related to variable annuity guarantee benefits, including from significant and sustained downturns or extreme volatility in equity markets, reduced interest rates, unanticipated policyholder behavior, mortality or longevity, and the adjustment for nonperformance risk; (30) deterioration in the experience of the "closed block" established in connection with the reorganization of Metropolitan Life Insurance Company; (31) adverse results or other consequences from litigation, arbitration or regulatory investigations; (32) inability to protect our intellectual property rights or claims of infringement of the intellectual property rights of others, (33) discrepancies between actual experience and assumptions used in establishing liabilities related to other contingencies or obligations; (34) regulatory, legislative or tax changes relating to our insurance, banking, international, or other operations that may affect the cost of, or demand for, our products or services, impair our ability to attract and retain talented and experienced management and other employees, or increase the cost or administrative burdens of providing benefits to employees; (35) the effects of business disruption or economic contraction due to terrorism, other hostilities, or natural catastrophes, including any related impact on our disaster recovery systems and management continuity planning which could impair our ability to conduct business effectively; (36) the effectiveness of our programs and practices in avoiding giving our associates incentives to take excessive risks; and (37) other risks and uncertainties described from time to time in MetLife, Inc.'s filings with the SEC.
MetLife, Inc. does not undertake any obligation to publicly correct or update any forward-looking statement if MetLife, Inc. later becomes aware that such statement is not likely to be achieved. Please consult any further disclosures MetLife, Inc. makes on related subjects in reports to the SEC.


