FILE:MET/MET-8K-20120911170240.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
Table of Contents
The slide presentations attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1, and incorporated herein by reference, will be presented at MetLife, Inc.'s Asia Investor Day Conference in Tokyo, Japan on September 12, 2012 and may be used by MetLife, Inc. in various other presentations to investors. The slide presentations are furnished and not filed pursuant to Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K.
 
The slide presentations attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1, and incorporated herein by reference, will be presented at MetLife, Inc.'s Asia Investor Day Conference in Tokyo, Japan on September 12, 2012 and may be used by MetLife, Inc. in various other presentations to investors. The slide presentations are furnished and not filed pursuant to Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K.
 
(a) Not applicable.
(b) Not applicable.
(c) Not applicable.
(d) Exhibits
 
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: September 11, 2012
 
Table of Contents
 
 

Christopher G. Townsend
President, Asia
MetLife, Inc.
 
Christopher Townsend is president of MetLife's Asia region and a member of the company's executive group. Appointed to this position in August 2012, Townsend oversees all of MetLife's businesses in Japan, Korea, Australia, Hong Kong and China.
Prior to joining MetLife, Townsend was, since 2010, chief executive officer of the Asia Pacific region at Chartis, a leading insurance organization serving more than 70 million clients around the world. In addition to leading all aspects of the business across the region, which included 4,700 employees in 15 countries, he oversaw the company's risk, audit, compliance and investment divisions. As CEO, Townsend drove capital optimization, cost efficiency and a focus on client needs as he implemented a strategy to take advantage of opportunities to drive an above average return on equity.
From 2007 to 2010, Townsend was chief executive officer of Chartis Australasia, with responsibility for the company's businesses across Australia and New Zealand. Working with many of the company's internal and external stakeholders, he developed and executed on a three-year plan to deliver a superior compound annual growth rate and solid combined operating ratios. In addition to reorganizing the business around its customers, he drove innovation through product development and the implementation of an ebusiness initiative that helped differentiate Chartis from many of its key competitors.
Earlier in his career, Townsend was the CEO of Chartis Hong Kong, served as senior vice president of mergers and acquisitions and also held a number of senior leadership roles in Hong Kong, London and Sydney. He joined Chartis in the United Kingdom in 1991 and spent more than half of his 21-year career in the company's Asia Pacific region.
Townsend has previously served as a board member of the Hong Kong Federation of Insurers, governor of the American Chamber of Commerce and board member of the Insurance Council of Australia. He is a Chartered Insurer.
William R. Hogan
Director, Representative Statutory Executive Officer,
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
MetLife Alico Life Insurance K. K.
 
William R. Hogan is Director, Representative Statutory Executive Officer, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of MetLife Alico Life Insurance in Japan. He has been in this role since January 2011 and is responsible for overseeing the Japan operations.
Prior to his current role, Hogan was appointed senior vice president, International Product Management for MetLife. In this role, he was responsible for leading MetLife's International Business's product management efforts with a clear accountability for the development, management and measurements of all products, institutional, individual or inbound reinsurance, outside of the United States. He also had responsibility for international strategy and risk management.
Hogan joined MetLife in July 2005, following MetLife's acquisition of The Travelers Insurance Company, excluding certain assets, and substantially all of Citigroup's international insurance operations. Upon joining MetLife, he was responsible for all individually underwritten products sold through retail distribution including bancassurance, third-party distribution, direct and telemarketing, as well as through the company's agency forces outside the United States.
Prior to joining MetLife, Hogan was regional head of Latin America for CitiInsurance, Citigroup's international insurance division. As regional head, he was in charge of all insurance operations for CitiInsurance in Latin America, including managing four insurance companies and supporting Citibank insurance distribution in 12 countries.
Before taking responsibility for the Latin America region, Hogan was senior vice president, Travelers Life & Annuity, responsible for the P&L and operations of the life insurance and the retail annuities businesses. From 1997 to 2000, Hogan served as vice president and chief actuary for Travelers Life & Annuity, responsible for corporate risk oversight and all budgeting and financial reporting. In addition, he was chief actuary for the group annuity business. He started his career as an actuarial student with Travelers and held a variety of positions including that of actuary, individual annuities product development and asset liability.
Hogan received a B. A. degree in mathematics from Williams College. He is also a fellow in the Society of Actuaries.
Sachin N. Shah
Statutory Executive Officer and Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer
MetLife Alico Life Insurance K. K.
 
Sachin N. Shah is Statutory Executive Officer and Executive Vice President, COO of MetLife Alico Life Insurance in Japan. In this role, Shah is responsible for overall strategy, marketing, branding, all distribution channels and distribution support functions in Japan. He was the global leader for the integration of Alico into MetLife until closing of the transaction.
He was named to this position in 2011 and has held several leadership roles at MetLife since joining the company almost 14 years ago.
Prior to his current position, Shah was responsible for developing and executing business strategy for MetLife's international business. In this role, Shah identified and managed key growth initiatives as well as mergers & acquisitions in the international markets where MetLife operates. Examples include entry into group dental business in Brazil, expansion of pensions business in Mexico, launching bancassurance and career agency in India, re-positioning the career agency channel in China, and expansion of general agency channel in Mexico.
Shah received a B.S. degree in electrical engineering and a master's degree in technology and business management from Stevens Institute of Technology in New Jersey. He has been recognized by and most recently in .
Who's Who in Management Professionals
Who's Who of National Business Leaders
Hiroyoshi Kitamura
Statutory Executive Officer and Executive Vice President, Profit Center & Products
MetLife Alico Life Insurance K. K.
 
Hiroyoshi Kitamura is Statutory Executive Officer and Executive Vice President in charge of Profit Center & Products of MetLife Alico Life Insurance in Japan. In this role, he is responsible for top line and bottom line of all products sold in Japan, as well as product development and product management.
Prior to this role, Kitamura was Vice President in charge of the Insurance Profit Center, where he was responsible for Life, A&H and Group products.
From 2004 to 2007, he held positions of Regional Assistant Vice President in charge of Medical Profit Center at AIG Japan and its Korea Regional Office. In this role, he supervised A&H product development and product management at three life insurance companies in Japan and one in Korea.
Kitamura has worked in product development related positions since he became manager of the Medical Product Profit Center in 2002. In this role, not only did he develop various new products including Life-style Related Disease Insurance, but he also succeeded in packaging value added services with A&H products so to enhance product competitiveness.
Prior to his role at Medical Product Profit Center, in 1997 Kitamura started up data based marketing in Alico Japan to accelerate up-selling and cross-selling activities in face-to-face distributions. In this role, he worked closely with distribution, as well as information technology and operations.
Kitamura started his career at Alico Japan in direct marketing where he worked as an account manager for some of Alico Japan's sponsors, including credit card companies.
Kitamura received a B.A. degree from Meiji Gakuin University and an MBA from New York University.
Atsushi Yagai
Executive Officer and Executive Vice President
Strategy, Customer Marketing & Direct Marketing
MetLife Alico Life Insurance K. K.
 
Atsushi Yagai is Executive Officer and Executive Vice President in charge of Strategy & Marketing and Direct Marketing for MetLife Alico Life Insurance in Japan. He has been in this role since January 2011, when he joined the company.
Prior to joining MetLife, he held various executive roles including President and Representative Director for Timberland Japan, Executive Vice President and Director of Marketing & Sales for AFLAC Japan, and President and Representative Director for Barilla Japan. Yagai began his career at Dentsu Inc. as an Account Executive. He also has consulting experience at McKinsey & Company.
Yagai graduated from Keio University with a Bachelor in Economics, and received an MBA from IMD-Lausanne.
Jong Kim
Chief Executive Officer
MetLife Korea
 
Jong Kim has been CEO of MetLife Korea since August 2009, and is concurrently serving as Chairman of the MetLife Welfare Foundation, established in 2005. As CEO, he is responsible for P&L of MetLife Korea, overseeing diverse distribution channels: Professional Agency, Bank Distribution and Institutional Business.
Prior to becoming CEO, Kim was the Chief Operating Officer from May 2007 to July 2009. In this role, he successfully grew the career agency from approximately 3,000 to 5,300 agents. The professional agency organization of MetLife Korea is highly regarded in the Korea life insurance industry and a critical component of MetLife Korea's success.
Prior to re-joining MetLife Korea in May 2007, Kim served as Senior Vice President at Korea Life Insurance Co. from October 2005 to April 2007, responsible for the newly established professional agency channel.
Previously at MetLife, Kim served as Head of Corporate Pension Business from January to September 2005. Prior to this position, he was the Managing Director of the Individual Business Department of the Los Angeles division of MetLife U.S.A. from October 2003 to December 2004. Also, Kim played a key role as Head of Individual Business of MetLife Korea from 1998-2003, successfully building the professional sales agent organization to approximately 2,000 agents by year-end 2003. In this role, he also helped to increase the number of sales agency branch offices to 80. Prior to this position, he served as Director of the sales support team from 1989 to 1998.
Kim first joined MetLife at the company's Concord, California sales agency. During 1986 to 1989, he worked as a sales representative and then branch manager. Before joining MetLife, he worked at California Korea Bank from 1983 to 1984 as operations manager in Los Angeles, California. He began his career at Chase Manhattan Bank in Korea 1981.
Kim received his Bachelor of Business Administration from Korea University and his MBA from the University of California, Berkeley.
Bob Pei
Chief Executive Officer
Board member
Asia Pacific Region / China
Sino-US United MetLife
 
Bob Pei is the CEO of Sino-US United MetLife, which was created as a result of the merger between United MetLife  SAIL JV and Sino-US MetLife in April 2011. He has held this position since the merger. His primary strategic focus has been growing the MetLife franchise in China.
Prior to this position, Pei was the acting CEO of Sino-US MetLife (May 2010  April 2011) and the CEO of United MetLife (August 2005  May 2010).
Prior to MetLife, Pei was the CEO of CitiInsurance, Citigroup's international insurance division, from 2004 to 2005. Under his leadership, United MetLife successfully completed the transition from CitiInsurance to MetLife, with Shanghai Alliance Investment Ltd. as MetLife's JV partner, and the merger between United MetLife  SAIL JV and Sino-US MetLife.
Prior to becoming CEO of CitiInsurance, Pei held several senior positions at Citigroup in Asia. He was Vice President, Asia Pacific Business Development of Citigroup Global Consumer (2001-2004) and Vice President and Country Manager of Citigroup, Global Consumer Business Taiwan (1998 to 2001).
Before Citigroup, Pei worked for CIGNA Taiwan, where he held several key and diverse roles. He served as Country Manager from 1996-1998 and held the positions of CFO and Chief Agency Officer from 1991-1996.
From 1984 to 1991 Pei worked as an Audit Supervisor and Acting Controller for Hospital Corporation of America, one of the leading providers of healthcare services in the U.S., where he developed insights into the healthcare industry.
Pei is a certified public accountant and a member of the American Institute of Public Accountants. He served as Chairman, Insurance Committee and board member of the American Chamber of Commerce, WTO acting committee member - American Chamber of Commerce, board member of Taiwan Life Insurance Association and on the Business Development Committee of Taiwan Life Insurance Association.
Pei holds a B.S. degree in accounting from Soochow University (Taiwan) and an MBA in accounting from North Texas State University.
Toby Srihiran Brown
Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer  Asia
MetLife, Inc.
 
Toby Brown is Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer - Asia, for MetLife, Inc. since May 2011. He also concurrently serves as Executive Vice President, Strategic Finance of MetLife Alico Japan.
As CFO for Asia, Brown is responsible for the overall financial leadership of all of Metlife's businesses in Asia including the existing Japan and Asia Pacific sub regional CFO organizations, Risk Management, Actuarial Valuation, Capital Management, Reinsurance, Product and Pricing Management, Tax/Financial Accounting and Controls, and Financial Planning and Analysis. Brown joined MetLife when they acquired Alico in November 2010.
Brown joined AIG/Alico in 2000, working first for parent company American International Group, Inc., as part of the global audit and consulting team, traveling extensively in the emerging market territories of Latin America, Western Europe, and Central & Eastern Europe. He also spent time at AIG Private Bank in Zurich.
Brown transferred permanently to Alico in 2002, where he held a number of positions of increasing responsibility within the Central and Eastern Europe Region (13 countries / 22 Life, Pension, Asset Management, Mutual Fund, and Shared Service Operations), most recently as Regional Chief Financial Officer and Head of Strategy (2008-2011) and immediately prior to this as Regional Chief Operating Officer (2003-2008) for all of Alico's operations in Poland, Romania and the Baltics.
Before joining AIG and Alico, Brown worked for Coopers & Lybrand (now PricewaterhouseCoopers) in the UK.
Brown holds a Bachelors degree in Accounting and Finance, and also a MBA from Manchester Business School, UK.
He is a fellow member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England & Wales (FCA), and a fellow member of the Association of International Accountants (FAIA). He was also one of only 20 global financial leaders to be chosen for and complete the AIG/NYU Stern Executive CFO development program.
John D. McCallion
Vice President, Investor Relations
MetLife, Inc.
 
John D. McCallion is vice president and head of investor relations of MetLife, Inc., a leading global provider of insurance, annuities and employee benefit programs serving 90 million customers. Appointed to this position in February 2011, McCallion manages and coordinates the presentation of MetLife's financial results, messages and strategies to the analyst and investor community.
Prior to overseeing MetLife's investor relations department, McCallion was vice president and chief financial officer of the company's investments department. In this role, he was responsible for managing the financial analysis and reporting, as well as the income and expense plan and projection process for the company's more than $450 billion investment portfolio. He also had oversight of the impairment and valuation process for MetLife's investments.
McCallion joined MetLife in July 2006 after spending 10 years in PricewaterhouseCoopers' insurance audit practice, where he worked with multinational and U.S. clients in the life and property/casualty insurance industries.
McCallion received a B.S. degree in accounting from Syracuse University and an MBA from the University of Pennsylvania, The Wharton School. He is a certified public accountant and a member of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants.


