FILE:MET/MET-8K-20120424151359.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02.    Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On April 24, 2012, Mr. Eduardo Castro-Wright resigned from the Board of Directors of MetLife, Inc. (the "Company"), effective immediately. A copy of the Company's press release regarding Mr. Castro-Wright's resignation is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. A copy of Mr. Castro-Wright's letter of resignation is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2. Effective April 24, 2012, the Company's Board of Directors reduced the number of Directors constituting the Board from 13 Directors to 12 Directors.
Item 9.01.    Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: April 24, 2012
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
NEW YORK, April 24, 2012  MetLife, Inc. (NYSE: MET) announced today that board member Eduardo Castro-Wright voluntarily resigned, effective immediately, from the boards of directors of MetLife, Inc. and Metropolitan Life Insurance Company, due to personal reasons.
Castro-Wright was first elected to the MetLife boards in March 2008.
MetLife, Inc. is a leading global provider of insurance, annuities and employee benefit programs, serving 90 million customers in over 50 countries. Through its subsidiaries and affiliates, MetLife holds leading market positions in the United States, Japan, Latin America, Asia Pacific, Europe and the Middle East. For more information, visit .
www.metlife.com

Exhibit 99.2
Steven A. Kandarian, CEO and Chairman
MetLife, Inc.
New York, New York
Dear Steve:
I have served on the Board of MetLife, Inc. and Metropolitan Life Insurance Company since 2008. Over the past weekend, I notified you of recent events that will require my immediate and personal attention. As a result, I will be stepping down from my Board position effective immediately.
It has been my privilege to serve with you and the other distinguished members of the MetLife Board for the past four years. It is my expectation that these outside distractions will be resolved favorably within the next several months. In the interim, however, they would not allow me to perform my duties at the highest levels that both the Board and I demand. Accordingly, I now must focus my energy in spending personal time with my family and in protecting my good name and business reputation.
I wish to thank you and all of the MetLife Board members for their understanding and support in this situation.
Very truly yours,
/s/ Eduardo Castro-Wright
Eduardo Castro-Wright


