FILE:MET/MET-8K-20120214165438.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On February 14, 2012, MetLife, Inc. issued (i) a press release announcing its results for the quarter and full year ended December 31, 2011, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference and (ii) a Quarterly Financial Supplement for the quarter ended December 31, 2011, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and is incorporated herein by reference. The press release and the Quarterly Financial Supplement are furnished and not filed pursuant to instruction B.2 of Form 8-K.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
99.1   Press Release of MetLife, Inc., dated February 14, 2012, announcing fourth quarter and full year 2011 results.
99.2   Quarterly Financial Supplement for the quarter ended December 31, 2011.
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: February 14, 2012
Table of Contents
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
NEW YORK, February 14, 2012  MetLife, Inc. (NYSE: MET) today reported fourth quarter 2011 net income of $1.1 billion, or $1.06 per share, and operating earnings
1
of $1.4 billion, or $1.31 per share. MetLife today also reported full year 2011 net income of $6.7 billion, or $6.29 per share, and operating earnings of $5.4 billion, or $5.02 per share.
"MetLife had a solid year and a strong fourth quarter, even in the face of some significant market pressures," said Steven A. Kandarian, chairman, president and chief executive officer of MetLife, Inc. "We delivered higher earnings per share over 2010. Our capital position is strong and getting stronger. And our ability to grow operating earnings in the face of low interest rates remains intact. In short, we think we're the best-positioned company in the life insurance sector to deliver shareholder value."
 
 
FULL YEAR 2011 SUMMARY
 
 
 
 
FOURTH QUARTER 2011 SUMMARY
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
BUSINESS DISCUSSIONS
On November 21, 2011, MetLife announced it was reorganizing into three broad geographic regions  The Americas, EMEA (Europe, the Middle East and Africa) and Asia  to better reflect the company's global reach. MetLife expects to report financial results under this new structure beginning with the first quarter of 2012.
During the fourth quarter of 2011, MetLife began reporting certain operations of MetLife Bank and insurance operations in the Caribbean Region, Panama and Costa Rica as divested businesses. These operations are excluded from operating earnings as well as investment portfolio and derivative gains and losses. Prior periods have been reclassified to conform with the current period segment presentation.
All comparisons of fourth quarter 2011 results in the business discussions that follow are with the fourth quarter of 2010, unless otherwise noted. Reconciliations of segment net income to segment operating earnings are provided in the tables that accompany this release and in the Fourth Quarter 2011 Quarterly Financial Supplement, which is available on the Investor Relations section of www.metlife.com.
U.S. BUSINESS
 
 
 
 
Insurance Products
Operating earnings for Insurance Products  which includes group life, individual life and non-medical health insurance  were $411 million, up 33% largely due to the positive impact of DAC and other adjustments in individual life as well as favorable underwriting results in group life and non-medical health. Premiums, fees & other revenues for Insurance Products were $5.1 billion, relatively unchanged.
Retirement Products
Operating earnings for Retirement Products  which includes the company's U.S. annuity products  were $216 million, down 5% due to the negative impact of DAC and other adjustments as well as lower variable investment income, offset by growth from strong positive net flows and higher core spreads. Compared with the fourth quarter of 2010 and the third quarter of 2011, total annuity sales increased 41% and declined 15%, respectively, primarily due to a change in the level of variable annuity sales. Premiums, fees & other revenues for Retirement Products were $1.0 billion, up 35% due to increased sales of immediate annuities and higher fee income.
 
 
Corporate Benefit Funding
Operating earnings for Corporate Benefit Funding  which includes the U.S. and U.K. pension closeout businesses, structured settlements and other benefit funding products  were $224 million, down 21% primarily due to lower variable investment income. Premiums, fees & other revenues for Corporate Benefit Funding were $739 million, up 44% largely due to higher pension closeout sales (which often fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter).
Auto & Home
Operating earnings for Auto & Home were $81 million, up 9% due mainly to lower catastrophes. In addition, favorable non-catastrophe claim development related to prior accident years was $14 million, or $0.01 per share, after tax, compared with $16 million, after tax, in the fourth quarter of 2010. Excluding catastrophes, Auto & Home's combined ratio remained strong at 90.2%, compared with 90.0%. Net written premiums were $740 million, up 2%.
INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS
 
 
 
Japan
Operating earnings in Japan were $326 million, up 3% over the third quarter of 2011 largely due to higher net investment income and both solid underwriting results and improved persistency in accident and health insurance. Compared with combined MetLife and Alico results in the fourth quarter of 2010, sales grew 16%. Premiums, fees & other revenues in Japan were $1.8 billion, higher than in the fourth quarter of 2010 (which reflected only one month of Alico results) and relatively unchanged from the third quarter of 2011.
Other International Regions
Operating earnings in the Other International Regions were $244 million, up 17%, while premiums, fees & other revenues grew to $2.0 billion. The increases, which were largely due to the Alico acquisition, were partially offset by the negative impact of foreign currency exchange rates. In addition, in Latin America, premiums, fees & other revenues grew due to premium increases in Mexico, Chile and Argentina. Premiums, fees & other revenues also benefited from strong performance in the Middle East and Eastern Europe.
 
CORPORATE & OTHER
Corporate & Other had an operating loss of $104 million, compared with an operating loss of $2 million. Results in the fourth quarter of 2010 benefited from several one-time items, while the fourth quarter of 2011 was impacted by higher expenses.
 
 
INVESTMENTS
Net investment income was $4.9 billion, up 11% from the fourth quarter of 2010 and down slightly from the third quarter of 2011. During the fourth quarter of 2011, variable investment income was within the plan range at $247 million ($162 million, after tax and the impact of DAC). In the fourth quarter of 2010, variable investment income was $423 million ($268 million, after tax and the impact of DAC).
For the fourth quarter of 2011, MetLife reported a $213 million, after tax, investment portfolio net loss compared with an investment portfolio net gain of $6 million, after tax.
Separately, MetLife reported derivative net gains of $351 million, after tax, which were largely due to declines in interest rates and gains in the company's variable annuity hedging program. In the fourth quarter of 2010, MetLife reported $1.1 billion, after tax, in derivative net losses. MetLife uses derivatives in connection with its broader portfolio management strategy to hedge a number of risks, including changes in interest rates and fluctuations in foreign currencies. Movement in interest rates, foreign currencies and MetLife's credit spreads  which impact the valuation of certain insurance liabilities  can generate derivative gains or losses. Derivative gains or losses related to MetLife's credit spreads do not have an economic impact on the company.
Conference Call
MetLife will hold its fourth quarter and full year 2011 earnings conference call and audio Webcast on Wednesday, February 15, 2012, from 8:00 to 9:00 a.m. (ET). The conference call will be available live via telephone and the Internet. To listen over the telephone, dial (612) 326-1027 (domestic and international callers). To listen to the conference call over the Internet, visit www.metlife.com (through a link on the Investor Relations page). Those who want to listen to the call on the telephone or via the Internet should dial in or go to the Web site at least fifteen minutes prior to the call to register, and/or download and install any necessary audio software.
The conference call will be available for replay via telephone and the Internet beginning at 10:00 a.m. (ET) on Wednesday, February 15, 2012, until Wednesday, February 22, 2012 at 11:59 p.m. (ET). To listen to a replay of the conference call over the telephone, dial (320) 365-3844 (domestic and international callers). The access code for the replay is 226299. To access the replay of the conference call over the Internet, visit the above-mentioned Web site.
About MetLife
MetLife, Inc. is a leading global provider of insurance, annuities and employee benefit programs, serving 90 million customers in over 50 countries. Through its subsidiaries and affiliates, MetLife holds leading market positions in the United States, Japan, Latin America, Asia Pacific, Europe and the Middle East. For more information, visit www.metlife.com.
Non-GAAP and Other Financial Disclosures
All references in this press release (except in this section) to net income (loss), net income (loss) per share, operating earnings, operating earnings per share, book value per share, and premiums, fees and other revenues, should be read as net income (loss) available to MetLife, Inc.'s common shareholders, net income (loss) available to MetLife, Inc.'s common shareholders per diluted common share, operating earnings available to common shareholders, operating earnings available to common shareholders per diluted common share, book value per common share, and premiums, fees and other revenues (operating), respectively.
 
Operating earnings is the measure of segment profit or loss that MetLife uses to evaluate segment performance and allocate resources. Consistent with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP") accounting guidance for segment reporting, operating earnings is MetLife's measure of segment performance. Operating earnings is also a measure by which MetLife senior management's and many other employees' performance is evaluated for the purposes of determining their compensation under applicable compensation plans.
Operating earnings is defined as operating revenues less operating expenses, both net of income tax. Operating earnings available to common shareholders is defined as operating earnings less preferred stock dividends.
Operating revenues and operating expenses exclude results of discontinued operations and other businesses that have been or will be sold or exited by MetLife ("Divested Businesses"). Operating revenues also excludes net investment gains (losses) ("NIGL") and net derivative gains (losses) ("NDGL").
The following additional adjustments are made to GAAP revenues, in the line items indicated, in calculating operating revenues:
 
 
 
The following additional adjustments are made to GAAP expenses, in the line items indicated, in calculating operating expenses:
 
 
 
 
 
 
MetLife believes the presentation of operating earnings and operating earnings available to common shareholders as MetLife measures it for management purposes enhances the understanding of the company's performance by highlighting the results of operations and the underlying profitability drivers of the business. Operating revenues,
 
 
operating expenses, operating earnings, operating earnings available to common shareholders, operating earnings available to common shareholders per diluted common share, book value per common share, excluding accumulated other comprehensive income ("AOCI"), and book value per diluted common share, excluding AOCI, should not be viewed as substitutes for the following financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP: GAAP revenues, GAAP expenses, GAAP income (loss) from continuing operations, net of income tax, GAAP net income (loss) available to MetLife, Inc.'s common shareholders, GAAP net income (loss) available to MetLife, Inc.'s common shareholders per diluted common share, book value per common share, and book value per diluted common share, respectively. Reconciliations of these measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures are included in the Fourth Quarter 2011 Quarterly Financial Supplement and/or in the tables that accompany this earnings press release.
Statistical sales information for life insurance is calculated by MetLife using the LIMRA International, Inc. definition of sales for core direct sales, excluding company sponsored internal exchanges, corporate-owned life insurance, bank-owned life insurance, and private placement variable universal life insurance. Individual annuities sales consists of statutory premiums direct and assumed, excluding company sponsored internal exchanges.
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release may contain or incorporate by reference information that includes or is based upon forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements give expectations or forecasts of future events. These statements can be identified by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. They use words such as "anticipate," "estimate," "expect," "project," "intend," "plan," "believe" and other words and terms of similar meaning in connection with a discussion of future operating or financial performance. In particular, these include statements relating to future actions, prospective services or products, future performance or results of current and anticipated services or products, sales efforts, expenses, the outcome of contingencies such as legal proceedings, trends in operations and financial results.
Any or all forward-looking statements may turn out to be wrong. They can be affected by inaccurate assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. Many such factors will be important in determining the actual future results of MetLife, Inc., its subsidiaries and affiliates. These statements are based on current expectations and the current economic environment. They involve a number of risks and uncertainties that are difficult to predict. These statements are not guarantees of future performance. Actual results could differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. Risks, uncertainties, and other factors that might cause such differences include the risks, uncertainties and other factors identified in MetLife, Inc.'s filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"). These factors include: (1) difficult conditions in the global capital markets; (2) concerns over U.S. fiscal policy and the trajectory of the national debt of the U.S., as well as rating agency downgrades of U.S. Treasury securities; (3) increased volatility and disruption of the capital and credit markets, which may affect our ability to seek financing or access our credit facilities; (4) uncertainty about the effectiveness of the U.S. government's programs to stabilize the financial system, the imposition of fees relating thereto, or the promulgation of additional regulations; (5) impact of comprehensive financial services regulation reform on us; (6) exposure to financial and capital market risk; (7) changes in general economic conditions, including the performance of financial markets and interest rates, which may affect our ability to raise capital, generate fee income and market-related revenue and finance statutory reserve requirements and may require us to pledge collateral or make payments related to declines in value of specified assets; (8) potential liquidity and other risks resulting from our participation in a securities lending program and other transactions; (9) investment losses and defaults, and changes to investment valuations; (10) impairments of goodwill and realized losses or market value impairments to illiquid assets; (11) defaults on our mortgage loans; (12) the impairment of other financial institutions that could adversely affect our investments or business; (13) our ability to address unforeseen liabilities, asset impairments, loss of key contractual relationships, or rating actions arising from acquisitions or dispositions, including our acquisition of American Life Insurance Company and Delaware American Life Insurance Company (collectively, "ALICO") and to successfully integrate and manage the growth of acquired businesses with minimal disruption; (14) uncertainty with respect to the outcome of the closing agreement entered into with the United States Internal Revenue Service in connection with the acquisition of ALICO; (15) the dilutive impact on our stockholders resulting from the issuance of equity securities in connection with the acquisition of ALICO or otherwise; (16) economic, political, currency and other risks relating to our international operations, including with respect to fluctuations of exchange rates; (17) our primary reliance, as a holding company, on dividends from our subsidiaries to meet debt payment obligations and the applicable regulatory restrictions on the ability of the subsidiaries to pay such dividends; (18) downgrades in our claims paying ability, financial strength or credit ratings; (19) ineffectiveness of risk management policies and
 
 
procedures; (20) availability and effectiveness of reinsurance or indemnification arrangements, as well as default or failure of counterparties to perform; (21) discrepancies between actual claims experience and assumptions used in setting prices for our products and establishing the liabilities for our obligations for future policy benefits and claims; (22) catastrophe losses; (23) heightened competition, including with respect to pricing, entry of new competitors, consolidation of distributors, the development of new products by new and existing competitors, distribution of amounts available under U.S. government programs, and for personnel; (24) unanticipated changes in industry trends; (25) changes in accounting standards, practices and/or policies; (26) changes in assumptions related to deferred policy acquisition costs, deferred sales inducements, value of business acquired or goodwill; (27) increased expenses relating to pension and postretirement benefit plans, as well as health care and other employee benefits; (28) exposure to losses related to variable annuity guarantee benefits, including from significant and sustained downturns or extreme volatility in equity markets, reduced interest rates, unanticipated policyholder behavior, mortality or longevity, and the adjustment for nonperformance risk; (29) deterioration in the experience of the "closed block" established in connection with the reorganization of Metropolitan Life Insurance Company; (30) adverse results or other consequences from litigation, arbitration or regulatory investigations; (31) inability to protect our intellectual property rights or claims of infringement of the intellectual property rights of others; (32) discrepancies between actual experience and assumptions used in establishing liabilities related to other contingencies or obligations; (33) regulatory, legislative or tax changes relating to our insurance, banking, international, or other operations that may affect the cost of, or demand for, our products or services, impair our ability to attract and retain talented and experienced management and other employees, or increase the cost or administrative burdens of providing benefits to employees; (34) the effects of business disruption or economic contraction due to disasters such as terrorist attacks, cyberattacks, other hostilities, or natural catastrophes, including any related impact on our disaster recovery systems, cyber- or other information security systems and management continuity planning; (35) the effectiveness of our programs and practices in avoiding giving our associates incentives to take excessive risks; and (36) other risks and uncertainties described from time to time in MetLife, Inc.'s filings with the SEC.
MetLife, Inc. does not undertake any obligation to publicly correct or update any forward-looking statement if MetLife, Inc. later becomes aware that such statement is not likely to be achieved. Please consult any further disclosures MetLife, Inc. makes on related subjects in reports to the SEC.
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
METLIFE, INC.
TABLE OF CONTENTS
 
 
 
 
1
METLIFE, INC.
NOTE TO FINANCIALS
This Quarterly Financial Supplement ("QFS") includes certain operating and statistical measures, such as sales and product spreads, among others, to provide supplemental data regarding the performance of our current business. Operating earnings is the measure of segment profit or loss we use to evaluate segment performance and allocate resources. Consistent with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP") accounting guidance for segment reporting, operating earnings is our measure of segment performance. Operating earnings is also a measure by which senior management's and many other employees' performance is evaluated for the purposes of determining their compensation under applicable compensation plans.
Operating earnings is defined as operating revenues less operating expenses, both net of income tax. Operating earnings available to common shareholders is defined as operating earnings less preferred stock dividends.
Operating revenues and operating expenses exclude results of discontinued operations and other businesses that have been or will be sold or exited by MetLife, Inc. ("Divested businesses"). Operating revenues also excludes net investment gains (losses) ("NIGL") and net derivative gains (losses) ("NDGL").
The following additional adjustments are made to GAAP revenues, in the line items indicated, in calculating operating revenues:
 
 
 
The following additional adjustments are made to GAAP expenses, in the line items indicated, in calculating operating expenses:
 
 
 
 
 
 
We believe the presentation of operating earnings and operating earnings available to common shareholders as we measure it for management purposes enhances the understanding of our performance by highlighting the results of operations and the underlying profitability drivers of our business. Operating revenues, operating expenses, operating earnings, operating earnings available to common shareholders, operating earnings available to common shareholders per diluted common share, book value per common share, excluding accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) ("AOCI"), and book value per diluted common share, excluding AOCI, should not be viewed as substitutes for the following financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP: GAAP revenues, GAAP expenses, GAAP income (loss) from continuing operations, net of income tax, GAAP net income (loss) available to MetLife, Inc.'s common shareholders, GAAP net income (loss) available to MetLife, Inc.'s common shareholders per diluted common share, book value per common share and book value per diluted common share, respectively. Reconciliations of these measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures are included in this QFS, including in the Appendix on page 36, and in MetLife's earnings press release dated February 14, 2012, for the three months and year ended December 31, 2011, which is available at www.metlife.com.
 
 
2
 
 
 
3
 
 
4
 
5
 
6
 
7
 
8
 
9
 
 
10
 
 
11
 
12
U.S. BUSINESS
INSURANCE PRODUCTSINDIVIDUAL LIFE
STATEMENTS OF OPERATING EARNINGS AVAILABLE TO COMMON SHAREHOLDERSPRODUCT LEVEL
 
13
U.S. BUSINESS
INSURANCE PRODUCTSNON-MEDICAL HEALTH
STATEMENTS OF OPERATING EARNINGS AVAILABLE TO COMMON SHAREHOLDERSPRODUCT LEVEL
 
 
14
U.S. BUSINESS
INSURANCE PRODUCTS
FUTURE POLICY BENEFITS AND POLICYHOLDER ACCOUNT BALANCES; AND SEPARATE ACCOUNT LIABILITIES
FUTURE POLICY BENEFITS AND POLICYHOLDER ACCOUNT BALANCES
GROUP LIFE
 
 
 
15
U.S. BUSINESS
INSURANCE PRODUCTS
OTHER EXPENSES BY MAJOR CATEGORY AND INDIVIDUAL LIFE SALES BY PRODUCT
OTHER EXPENSES
 
 
 
 
16
U.S. BUSINESS
INSURANCE PRODUCTS
SPREAD BY PRODUCT
GROUP LIFE
VARIABLE & UNIVERSAL LIFE
NON-MEDICAL HEALTH
 
 
17
 
 
18
 
U.S. BUSINESS
RETIREMENT PRODUCTS
FUTURE POLICY BENEFITS AND POLICYHOLDER ACCOUNT BALANCES; AND SEPARATE ACCOUNT LIABILITIES
FUTURE POLICY BENEFITS AND POLICYHOLDER ACCOUNT BALANCES
 
 
 
 
19
U.S. BUSINESS
RETIREMENT PRODUCTS
OTHER EXPENSES BY MAJOR CATEGORY AND INDIVIDUAL ANNUITY SALES BY PRODUCT
OTHER EXPENSES
 
 
 
 
20
 
 
 
21
 
U.S. BUSINESS
CORPORATE BENEFIT FUNDING
STATEMENTS OF OPERATING EARNINGS AVAILABLE TO COMMON SHAREHOLDERS
 
 
22
 
 
23
 
 
 
24
 
 
 
25
 
 
26
 
 
27
INTERNATIONAL
JAPAN
STATEMENTS OF OPERATING EARNINGS AVAILABLE TO COMMON SHAREHOLDERS
 
 
28
 
29
 
 
30
 
 
31
 
 
 
32
 
 
33
 
34
 
35
 
 
36
 
 
 
 
 


