FILE:FE/FE-8K-20031023123939.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D. C. 20549 FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported) October 23, 2003 Commission Registrant; State of Incorporation; I.R.S. Employer File Number Address; and Telephone Number Identification No. - ----------- ----------------------------------- ------------------ 333-21011 FIRSTENERGY CORP. 34-1843785 (An Ohio Corporation) 76 South Main Street Akron, Ohio 44308 Telephone (800)736-3402
Item 7. Financial Statements, Pro Forma Financial Statements and Exhibits (c) Exhibits. Exhibit No. Description - ----------- ----------- 99.1 Press Release issued by FirstEnergy Corp., dated October 23, 2003 99.2 Consolidated Report to the Financial Community, dated October 23, 2003 Item 12. Results of Operations and Financial Condition On October 23, 2003, FirstEnergy Corp. issued two public announcements, which are attached as Exhibits 99.1, and 99.2 hereto and incorporated by reference. FirstEnergy's Press Release and Consolidated Report to the Financial Community contain non-GAAP financial measures. Generally, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a company's historical or future financial performance, financial position, or cash flows that either excludes or includes amounts that are not normally excluded or included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, or GAAP. Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, FirstEnergy has provided quantitative reconciliations within the Press Release and Consolidated Report to the Financial Community of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures. The Press Release and Consolidated Report to the Financial Community include normalized earnings per share, which is not calculated in accordance with GAAP because it excludes the impact of "unusual items". Unusual items reflect the impact on earnings of events that are not routine, are related to prior periods, are related to discontinued businesses or are the cumulative effect of an accounting change. Management believes presenting normalized earnings calculated in this manner provides useful information to investors in evaluating the ongoing results of FirstEnergy's businesses and assists investors in comparing the company's operating performance to the operating performance of others in the energy sector. FirstEnergy's management frequently references these non-GAAP financial measures in its decision-making, using them to facilitate historical and ongoing performance comparisons as well as comparisons to the performance of peer companies. The non-GAAP information presented in the Press Release and Consolidated Report to the Financial Community should be considered in addition to, and not as a substitute for, reported earnings per share prepared in accordance with GAAP. Forward-Looking Statement: This Form 8-K includes forward-looking statements based on information currently available to management. Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. These statements typically contain, but are not limited to, the terms "anticipate," "expect," "believe," "estimate," and similar words. Actual results may differ materially due to the speed and nature of increased competition and deregulation in the electric utility industry, economic or weather conditions affecting future sales and margins, changes in markets for energy services, changing energy and commodity market prices, replacement power costs being higher than anticipated or inadequately hedged, maintenance costs being higher than anticipated, legislative and regulatory changes (including revised environmental requirements), adverse regulatory or legal decisions, availability and cost of capital, inability of the Davis-Besse Nuclear Power Station to restart (including because of any inability to obtain a favorable final determination from the Nuclear Regulatory Commission) in the fall of 2003, inability to accomplish or realize anticipated benefits of strategic goals, the ability to access the public securities markets, further investigation into the causes of the August 14, 2003, regional power outage and the outcome, cost and other effects of present and potential legal and administrative proceedings and claims related to that outage, and other factors discussed from time to time in FirstEnergy's Securities and Exchange Commission filings, including its annual report on Form 10-K (as amended) for the year ended December 31, 2002, its Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2003 and under "Risk Factors" in the Prospectus Supplement dated September 12, 2003 to the Prospectus dated August 29, 2003 (which was part of the Registration Statement-SEC File No. 333-103865) and other similar factors. 1
SIGNATURE Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized. October 23, 2003 FIRSTENERGY CORP. ----------------- Registrant /s/ Harvey L. Wagner ----------------------------------------- Harvey L. Wagner Vice President, Controller and Chief Accounting Officer 2

Exhibit 99.1 FirstEnergy Corp. For Release: October 23, 2003 76 South Main Street Akron, Ohio 44308 www.firstenergycorp.com News Media Contact: Investor Contact: Ralph DiNicola Kurt Turosky (330) 384-5939 (330) 384-5500 FIRSTENERGY REPORTS THIRD QUARTER RESULTS FirstEnergy Corp. (NYSE: FE) today reported that basic earnings per share of common stock on a non-GAAP basis(*) for the third quarter of 2003 were $0.95, before unusual charges that reduced net income by $131.2 million. Including these items, net income was $152.7 million, or basic and diluted earnings of $0.51 per share. This compares with third quarter 2002 net income of $284.8 million, or basic and diluted earnings of $0.97 per share. Third Quarter 2003 Non-GAAP Reconciliation After-Tax Amount Basic Earnings (Millions) Per Share ------------------------------------- Earnings Before Unusual Items $283.9 $ 0.95 Goodwill Impairment (80.9) (0.27) Davis-Besse Impacts (42.6) (0.14) JCP&L Rate Case Disallowance (7.7) (0.03) ------------------------------------- Net Income $152.7 $ 0.51 The unusual charges include a non-cash goodwill impairment charge in the third quarter of 2003 reducing the carrying value of FirstEnergy's electrical and mechanical contracting companies. This charge reflects the continued slowdown in the development of competitive retail markets and depressed economic conditions which affect the value of certain of the companies. Other unusual charges relate to replacement power and maintenance costs associated with the extended outage of the Davis-Besse Nuclear Power Station, and additional cost disallowances resulting from this summer's decision by the New Jersey Board of Public Utilities in FirstEnergy's Jersey Central Power & Light (JCP&L) subsidiary's rate proceedings. (more) 1
Other factors reducing the company's third quarter earnings were an increase in other nuclear operating expenses related to a refueling outage at the Beaver Valley Power Station Unit 2; additional maintenance costs from storm damage primarily related to Hurricane Isabel; acceleration of system reliability improvements in JCP&L's service area; increased pension and other post-retirement benefits costs; and higher amortization costs related to FirstEnergy's Ohio Transition Plan. Electric distribution deliveries for the third quarter of 2003 were 5 percent lower than the third quarter of 2002. The decrease in sales was primarily due to unusually mild weather and the resulting reduction in air-conditioning load, and depressed economic conditions. Residential deliveries decreased 7 percent, commercial deliveries declined 4 percent and industrial deliveries were down 3 percent. Total electric generation sales increased slightly as a 6-percent decline in retail generation sales was offset by an 18 percent increase in sales to wholesale customers. FirstEnergy's total revenues for the third quarter of 2003 were $3.44 billion, compared with $3.45 billion from the year-earlier quarter. During the third quarter, FirstEnergy continued making progress in its efforts to improve its financial flexibility and enhance its credit profile. Through September 30, 2003, the company redeemed long-term debt and preferred stock totaling $656.4 million, and refinanced, converted to floating rate, or repriced long-term debt and preferred stock totaling nearly $1.3 billion, which will produce annualized pre-tax savings of $75.8 million. During the third quarter, FirstEnergy issued 32.2 million shares of new common stock at $30.00 per share. Net proceeds of $935 million were used to reduce outstanding bank borrowings. For the nine months ended September 30, total revenues were $9.5 billion, compared with $9.2 billion for the same period in 2002. Earnings of $2.03 per share on a non-GAAP basis exclude the cumulative effect of a change in accounting, the adverse impacts of discontinued operations, and unusual charges. Including these items, net income was $313.3 million, or basic earnings of $1.06 per share ($1.05 diluted) for the period, compared with net income for the first nine months of 2002 of $611.0 million, or basis and diluted earnings of $2.08 per share. (more) 2
First Nine Months of 2003 Non-GAAP Reconciliation After-Tax Amount Basic Earnings (Millions) Per Share ------------------------------------ Earnings Before Unusual Items $ 599.7 $ 2.03 Cumulative Effect-Accounting Change 102.1 0.35 Goodwill Impairment (80.9) (0.27) JCP&L Rate Case Disallowance (103.2) (0.35) Davis-Besse Impacts (132.0) (0.45) Discontinued Operations (60.5) (0.21) Other Unusual Items (11.9) (0.04) ------------------------------------ Net Income $ 313.3 $ 1.06 FirstEnergy is a registered public utility holding company headquartered in Akron, Ohio. Its subsidiaries and affiliates are involved in the generation, transmission and distribution of electricity; exploration and production of oil and natural gas; transmission and marketing of natural gas; and energy management and other energy-related services. (*) This news release contains non-GAAP financial measures. Generally, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a company's historical or future financial performance, financial position, or cash flows that either excludes or includes amounts that are not normally excluded or included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. Forward-Looking Statement: This news release includes forward-looking statements based on information currently available to management. Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. These statements typically contain, but are not limited to, the terms "anticipate," "expect," "believe," "estimate," and similar words. Actual results may differ materially due to the speed and nature of increased competition and deregulation in the electric utility industry, economic or weather conditions affecting future sales and margins, changes in markets for energy services, changing energy and commodity market prices, replacement power costs being higher than anticipated or inadequately hedged, maintenance costs being higher than anticipated, legislative and regulatory changes (including revised environmental requirements), adverse regulatory or legal decisions, availability and cost of capital, inability of the Davis-Besse Nuclear Power Station to restart (including because of any inability to obtain a favorable final determination from the Nuclear Regulatory Commission) in the fall of 2003, inability to accomplish or realize anticipated benefits of strategic goals, the ability to access the public securities markets, further investigation into the causes of the August 14, 2003, regional power outage and the outcome, cost and other effects of present and potential legal and administrative proceedings and claims related to that outage, and other factors discussed from time to time in FirstEnergy's Securities and Exchange Commission filings, including its annual report on Form 10-K (as amended) for the year ended December 31, 2002, its Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2003 and under "Risk Factors" in the Prospectus Supplement dated September 12, 2003 to the Prospectus dated August 29, 2003 (which was part of the Registration Statement-SEC File No. 333-103865) and other similar factors. (102303) 3

Consolidated Report to Exhibit 99.2 the Financial Community (Unaudited) 3Q 2003 Results Compared With 3Q 2002 - ------------------------------------- o Electric distribution deliveries decreased 5%, driven largely by a 7% reduction in residential deliveries due to milder weather. Cooling-degree-days during the quarter were 19% below the same period last year. Commercial and industrial deliveries declined 4% and 3%, respectively. Total electric generation sales increased slightly, as a 6% decline in retail generation sales was more than offset by an 18% increase in wholesale sales. o Electric gross margin increased $25 million after adjusting for changes in regulatory deferrals and Davis-Besse replacement power costs, despite the negative impact from the JCP&L rate case decision. Adjusted electric sales revenues increased by $107 million due primarily to higher wholesale spot and contract sales. The increase in electric sales revenues was partially offset by higher adjusted fuel and purchased power costs totaling $82 million. The net increase in fuel and purchased power expense resulted from additional market purchases necessary to support the higher generation sales and a 5% reduction in generation output. o Nuclear operating expenses, excluding incremental expenses associated with the Davis-Besse outage, increased $28 million. The increase was entirely attributable to the 28-day refueling outage at Beaver Valley Unit 2, which was completed on October 12. 1
o Storm-related restoration expenses primarily related to Hurricane Isabel, increased energy delivery expenses by approximately $20 million during the quarter. Additionally, the accelerated reliability improvement plan in JCP&L's service territory increased expenses by $12 million during the quarter. o Pension and other post-employment benefit costs increased approximately $50 million, continuing to reflect reduced plan asset values at the measurement date, reduced return assumptions on trust assets, and lower discount rates used to value projected obligations. o Total depreciation and amortization expenses, adjusted for the regulatory deferrals related to electric gross margin and a $13 million disallowance (unusual charge) related to the JCP&L rate case decision, increased $14 million. The increase was the net result of a $25 million increase in Ohio transition costs amortization and $12 million of depreciation expense associated with the Lake Plants, partially offset by $19 million of lower nuclear decommissioning and depreciation expenses related to the implementation of SFAS No. 143. o Net interest charges decreased $19 million as a result of our continued aggressive debt reduction program and refinancing activities. Financing activities during the quarter included $241 million in mandatory long-term debt redemptions, which will produce annual interest savings of approximately $20 million. A total of 32.2 million shares of new common stock were issued during the quarter, which diluted earnings by $0.02 per share. o Other items that lowered earnings for the quarter included reduced contributions from our MYR and Facilities Services Group subsidiaries ($0.02 per share), reduced income from international operations ($0.01 per share) and mark-to-market adjustments ($0.02 per share). 2Q 2003 Earnings Impact Associated with Davis-Besse - --------------------------------------------------- o Incremental expenses associated with the extended outage at Davis-Besse during the quarter totaled $72 million, or $0.14 per share ($55 million of replacement power costs and $17 million of O&M expenses). Unusual Charges - --------------- o A non-cash, goodwill impairment charge of $122 million, or $0.27 per share, was recorded to reduce the carrying value of FirstEnergy's electrical and mechanical contracting companies. An unusual charge of $13 million, or $0.03 per share, was recorded to reflect additional cost disallowances resulting from the New Jersey Board of Public Utilities' summary written order in the JCP&L's base rate proceeding. For additional information, please contact: Kurt E. Turosky Terrance G. Howson Thomas C. Navin Director, Vice President, Treasurer Investor Relations Investor Relations (330) 384-5889 (330) 384-5500 (973) 401-8519 2
3
4
5
7 RECENT DEVELOPMENTS - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Ohio Rate Plan Proposal On October 21, FirstEnergy filed, on behalf of its Ohio electric operating companies, an application with the Public Utilities Commission of Ohio to establish generation rates beginning January 1, 2006. In the application, the Companies propose to either establish a competitive bidding process to determine standard offer generation service rates as of January 1, 2006, or implement a comprehensive Rate Stabilization Plan. The Plan is designed to provide stable long-term competitive pricing of energy services, help ensure supplies of electricity and enhance economic development. If approved, the Plan would stabilize the price customers will pay for electricity by essentially maintaining current prices through 2008, subject to limited adjustments. The Company has requested Commission action on the proposal by December 31, 2003. Common Stock Issuance On September 17, FirstEnergy issued 32.2 million shares of new common stock at $30.00 per share. Net proceeds of $935 million were used to reduce bank debt, significantly improving FirstEnergy's credit quality and financial flexibility. Anticipated earnings dilution for the year is $0.07 per share. Davis-Besse Nuclear Power Station Pressure Test On October 14, FirstEnergy announced that the recent pressure test at the Davis-Besse Nuclear Power Station had fully met all of its objectives, including validation of the integrity of the bottom of the plant's Reactor Vessel and of the Reactor Coolant System. The overall leak rate for the 90,000-gallon Reactor Coolant System was .006 gallons per minute, well within the federal limit of one gallon per minute. Using a robotic camera to closely examine the bottom of the reactor vessel and 52 instrumentation tubes, plant officials confirmed that there is no indication of leakage in the bottom of the reactor vessel. Remaining work to be completed prior to restart includes modifying the High Pressure Injection Pumps, which already have been shipped to the vendor; modification of the Electrical Distribution System; work on the Containment Air Coolers; additional training for employees regarding performance issues, regulatory compliance and safety culture; and enhancements to the Corrective Action Program. Beaver Valley Unit 2 Refueling Outage On October 12, Beaver Valley Unit #2 returned to service, following a 28-day scheduled refueling outage. Significant activities included the replacement of 60 fuel assemblies and 48 control rods in the reactor core, as well as other modifications and improvements to ensure continued safe and reliable operation. The reactor vessel head and under-vessel were found to be in good condition following a thorough inspection. Unit 2 had operated for 474 consecutive days since its last refueling and had posted an availability factor of 99.6 percent. Agreement to Sell Avon Energy Partners Holdings On October 21, an agreement was reached to sell our 20.1% interest in Avon Energy Partners Holdings to a subsidiary of Powergen UK for $8 million. This transaction also includes Aquila's 79.9% ownership interest. The sale is contingent upon: (1) reaching an agreement with Avon Energy bondholders to sell their bonds for 95.8% of their nominal value; (2) approval from the European merger commission; and (3) approval of Aquila's participation in the transaction by the State Corporation Commission of Kansas. The holders of approximately half of the outstanding bonds already have given their consent. This Consolidated Report to the Financial Community includes forward-looking statements based on information currently available to management. Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. These statements typically contain, but are not limited to, the terms "anticipate," "expect," "believe," "estimate," and similar words. Actual results may differ materially due to the speed and nature of increased competition and deregulation in the electric utility industry, economic or weather conditions affecting future sales and margins, changes in markets for energy services, changing energy and commodity market prices, replacement power costs being higher than anticipated or inadequately hedged, maintenance costs being higher than anticipated, legislative and regulatory changes (including revised environmental requirements), adverse regulatory or legal decisions, availability and cost of capital, inability of the Davis-Besse Nuclear Power Station to restart (including because of any inability to obtain a favorable final determination from the Nuclear Regulatory Commission) in the fall of 2003, inability to accomplish or realize anticipated benefits of strategic goals, the ability to access the public securities markets, further investigation into the causes of the August 14, 2003 regional power outage and the outcome, cost and other effects of present and potential legal and administrative proceedings and claims related to that outage, a denial of or material change to the Company's Application related to its Rate Stabilization Plan, and other factors discussed from time to time in FirstEnergy's Securities and Exchange Commission filings, including its annual report on Form 10-K (as amended) for the year ended December 31, 2002, its Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2003 and under "Risk Factors" in the Prospectus Supplement dated September 12, 2003 to the Prospectus dated August 29, 2003 (which was part of the Registration Statement-SEC File No. 333-103865) and other similar factors.
8


