FILE:FE/FE-8K-20040507075513.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D. C. 20549 FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported) May 7, 2004 Commission Registrant; State of Incorporation; I.R.S. Employer File Number Address; and Telephone Number Identification No. - ----------- ----------------------------------- ----------------- 333-21011 FIRSTENERGY CORP. 34-1843785 (An Ohio Corporation) 76 South Main Street Akron, Ohio 44308 Telephone (800)736-3402
Item 7. Financial Statements, Pro Forma Financial Statements and Exhibits (c) Exhibits. Exhibit No. Description - ----------- ----------- 99.1 Press Release issued by FirstEnergy Corp., dated May 7, 2004 99.2 Consolidated Report to the Financial Community, dated May 7, 2004 Item 12. Results of Operations and Financial Condition On May 7, 2004, FirstEnergy Corp. issued two public announcements, which are attached as Exhibits 99.1, and 99.2 hereto and incorporated by reference. FirstEnergy's Press Release and Consolidated Report to the Financial Community contain non-GAAP financial measures. Generally, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a company's historical or future financial performance, financial position, or cash flows that either excludes or includes amounts that are not normally excluded or included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, or GAAP. Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, FirstEnergy has provided quantitative reconciliations within the Press Release and Consolidated Report to the Financial Community of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures. The Press Release and Consolidated Report to the Financial Community include normalized earnings per share, which is not calculated in accordance with GAAP because it excludes the impact of "unusual items". Unusual items reflect the impact on earnings of events that are not routine, are related to discontinued businesses or are the cumulative effect of an accounting change. Management believes presenting normalized earnings calculated in this manner provides useful information to investors in evaluating the ongoing results of FirstEnergy's businesses and assists investors in comparing the company's operating performance to the operating performance of others in the energy sector. FirstEnergy's management frequently references these non-GAAP financial measures in its decision-making, using them to facilitate historical and ongoing performance comparisons as well as comparisons to the performance of peer companies. The non-GAAP information presented in the Press Release and Consolidated Report to the Financial Community should be considered in addition to, and not as a substitute for, reported earnings per share prepared in accordance with GAAP. Forward-Looking Statement: This Form 8-K includes forward-looking statements based on information currently available to management. Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. These statements typically contain, but are not limited to, the terms "anticipate", "potential", "expect", "believe", "estimate" and similar words. Actual results may differ materially due to the speed and nature of increased competition and deregulation in the electric utility industry, economic or weather conditions affecting future sales and margins, changes in markets for energy services, changing energy and commodity market prices, replacement power costs being higher than anticipated or inadequately hedged, maintenance costs being higher than anticipated, legislative and regulatory changes (including revised environmental requirements), adverse regulatory or legal decisions and the outcome of governmental investigations (including revocation of necessary licenses or operating permits), availability and cost of capital, the continuing availability and operation of generating units, the inability to accomplish or realize anticipated benefits of strategic goals, the ability to improve electric commodity margins and to experience growth in the distribution business, the ability to access the public securities markets, further investigation into the causes of the August 14, 2003, regional power outage and the outcome, cost and other effects of present and potential legal and administrative proceedings and claims related to that outage, a denial of or material change to FirstEnergy's Application related to its Rate Stabilization Plan, the risks and other factors discussed from time to time in FirstEnergy's Securities and Exchange Commission filings, including its annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2003 and other similar factors. FirstEnergy expressly disclaims any current intention to update any forward-looking statements contained in this document as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. 1
SIGNATURE Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized. May 7, 2004 FIRSTENERGY CORP. ----------------- Registrant /s/ Harvey L. Wagner --------------------------------- Harvey L. Wagner Vice President, Controller and Chief Accounting Officer 2

EXHIBIT 99.1 FirstEnergy Corp. For Release: May 7, 2004 76 South Main Street Akron, Ohio 44308 www.firstenergycorp.com News Media Contact: Investor Contact: Kristen Baird Kurt Turosky (330) 761-4261 (330) 384-5500 FIRSTENERGY REPORTS FIRST QUARTER EARNINGS FirstEnergy Corp. (NYSE: FE) today reported that first quarter 2004 earnings on a non-GAAP(*) basis were $212.3 million, or basic and diluted earnings per share of common stock of $0.65. These results exclude incremental replacement power and operating and maintenance expenses associated with the extended outage at the Davis-Besse Nuclear Power Station, which returned to service last month. Including Davis-Besse costs, earnings on a GAAP basis were $174.0 million, or basic and diluted earnings of $0.53 per share. That compares with first quarter 2003 earnings on a non-GAAP basis of $166.6 million, or basic and diluted earnings per share of $0.57, before incremental Davis-Besse costs, discontinued operations and the cumulative effect of an accounting change resulting from the adoption of a new accounting standard for asset retirement obligations. Including those items, 2003 first quarter net income was $218.5 million, or basic and diluted earnings of $0.74 per share, on a GAAP basis. First Quarter 2004 Non-GAAP Earnings Reconciliation - After-Tax Amounts Basic Amount in Millions Earnings Per Share ------------------ ------------------ Earnings Before Davis-Besse Impact $212.3 $0.65 Davis-Besse Impact (38.3) (0.12) ------ ----- Net Income $174.0 $0.53 First Quarter 2003 Non-GAAP Earnings Reconciliation - After-Tax Amounts Basic Amount in Millions Earnings Per Share ------------------ ------------------ Earnings Before Davis-Besse Impact, Cumulative Effect of Accounting Change and Discontinued Operations $166.6 $0.57 Davis-Besse Impact (52.2) (0.18) Discontinued Operations 2.0 ----- Cumulative Effect of Accounting Change 102.1 0.35 ------ ----- Net Income $218.5 $0.74 1
"Our strong first quarter results reflect the success from ongoing initiatives to enhance our operational and financial performance," said President and Chief Executive Officer Anthony J. Alexander. "With the restart of Davis-Besse behind us, and what we believe to be a strong case for the approval of our Ohio Rate Stabilization Plan, we're better positioned to achieve continued success in 2004 and in the years ahead." FirstEnergy's improved non-GAAP earnings included higher sales margins from a four-percent increase in total generation sales, principally from wholesale transactions, and a decline in financing costs resulting from the company's ongoing debt reduction and refinancing activities. GAAP results for the first quarter of 2004 included Davis-Besse replacement power costs, which totaled $64 million for the quarter, and the negative impact of last year's decision in the Jersey Central Power & Light (JCP&L) rate case. Total revenues for the first quarter of 2004 were $3.18 billion, compared with $3.22 billion in the year-earlier quarter. The slight decline in revenues reflects increased shopping for alternative suppliers by customers of FirstEnergy's Ohio electric companies, milder weather, and the impact of the JCP&L rate decision. FirstEnergy continued making progress in its effort to improve its financial flexibility through debt reduction and refinancings, which reduced interest charges by $34 million, compared with the first quarter of 2003. Financing activities during the quarter, including $256 million in refinancings and repricings, will produce annualized savings of $6 million. FirstEnergy's Consolidated Report to the Financial Community - which provides highlights on company developments and financial results for the first quarter of 2004 - is posted on the company's Internet site - www.firstenergycorp.com/ir. To access the report, click on Consolidated Report to the Financial Community. FirstEnergy is a registered public utility holding company headquartered in Akron, Ohio. Its subsidiaries and affiliates are involved in the generation, transmission and distribution of electricity; exploration and production of oil and natural gas; transmission and marketing of natural gas; and energy management and other energy-related services. 2
(*) This news release contains non-GAAP financial measures. Generally, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a company's historical or future financial performance, financial position, or cash flows that either excludes or includes amounts that are not normally excluded or included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. Forward-Looking Statements: This news release includes forward-looking statements based on information currently available to management. Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. These statements typically contain, but are not limited to, the terms "anticipate", "potential", "expect", "believe", "estimate" and similar words. Actual results may differ materially due to the speed and nature of increased competition and deregulation in the electric utility industry, economic or weather conditions affecting future sales and margins, changes in markets for energy services, changing energy and commodity market prices, replacement power costs being higher than anticipated or inadequately hedged, maintenance costs being higher than anticipated, legislative and regulatory changes (including revised environmental requirements), adverse regulatory or legal decisions and the outcome of governmental investigations (including revocation of necessary licenses or operating permits), availability and cost of capital, the continuing availability and operation of generating units, the inability to accomplish or realize anticipated benefits of strategic goals, the ability to improve electric commodity margins and to experience growth in the distribution business, the ability to access the public securities markets, further investigation into the causes of the August 14, 2003, regional power outage and the outcome, cost and other effects of present and potential legal and administrative proceedings and claims related to that outage, a denial of or material change to the Company's Application related to its Rate Stabilization Plan, the risks and other factors discussed from time to time in FirstEnergy's Securities and Exchange Commission filings, including its annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2003 and other similar factors. FirstEnergy expressly disclaims any current intention to update any forward-looking statements contained in this document as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. 3

Exhibit 99.2 Consolidated Report to the Financial Community (Unaudited) 1Q 2004 Results Compared With 1Q 2003 - ------------------------------------- o Electric distribution deliveries were flat as a 1% increase in industrial deliveries was offset by lower residential deliveries due to milder weather compared with the unusually cold temperatures in the first quarter of 2003. Heating-degree-days were 4% lower than the same period last year, but 6% above normal. Total electric generation sales rose 4% due to a 20% increase in wholesale sales. Retail generation sales declined 2% largely as a result of increased customer shopping. o Electric gross margin increased $39 million after adjusting for changes in regulatory deferrals, JCP&L's rate reduction in August 2003, and Davis-Besse replacement power costs. The increase in electric gross margin resulted from higher wholesale generation sales, driven by an 11% increase in generation output, and lower prices for purchased power. o Generation operating expenses, excluding incremental expenses associated with the Davis-Besse outage, decreased $47 million. Nuclear operating expenses decreased $37 million due to the absence of a refueling outage this quarter, compared with the Beaver Valley Unit 1 outage last year. Fossil operating expenses decreased $10 million, reflecting fewer maintenance outages compared with the same period last year. o Energy delivery expenses were $10 million higher as a result of increased vegetation management activities and accelerated spending to enhance system reliability. 1
o Pension and other employee benefit costs decreased approximately $30 million as a result of favorable market returns in 2003, changes to health care benefits for retirees, and recent Medicare legislation regarding prescription drugs. o Total depreciation and amortization expenses, adjusted for the regulatory deferrals and the JCP&L rate case impact, increased $25 million due to higher Ohio transition cost amortization. o Net interest charges decreased $34 million. Financing activities during the quarter included $29 million in mandatory long-term debt redemptions, $50 million in optional debt redemptions, and $256 million of refinancing and repricing transactions. These are expected to result in annualized savings of $6 million. Additional shares outstanding from the issuance of 32.2 million shares of common stock in the third quarter of 2003 diluted earnings by $0.06 per share. 1Q 2004 Earnings Impact Associated with Davis-Besse - --------------------------------------------------- o Incremental expenses associated with the extended outage at Davis-Besse totaled $65 million, or $0.12 per share ($64 million of replacement power costs and $1 million of O&M expenses). 2004 Earnings and Free Cash Flow Guidance* - ----------------------------------------- o Earnings guidance for 2004 remains at $2.70 to $2.85 per share, excluding incremental expenses associated with the Davis-Besse outage and unusual charges. o Free cash flow guidance for 2004 remains at $825 million, but now includes the incremental expenses associated with the Davis-Besse outage. * The GAAP to Non-GAAP reconciliation statements are available on FirstEnergy Corp.'s website at www.firstenergycorp.com/ir. -------------------------- For additional information, please contact: Kurt E. Turosky Terrance G. Howson Thomas C. Navin Director, Vice President, Treasurer Investor Relations Investor Relations (330) 384-5889 (330) 384-5500 (973) 401-8519 2
RECENT DEVELOPMENTS - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Davis-Besse Nuclear Plant - ------------------------ On March 8, the Davis-Besse Nuclear Plant received authorization to restart from the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) following a two-year extended outage to replace the reactor head and make other equipment and performance improvements. The plant reached the 100 percent power level on April 4. As part of the NRC's restart authorization, independent assessments of the site's operational performance; safety culture and safety conscious work environment; and corrective action and engineering programs will be conducted annually for the next five years. Additionally, a visual inspection of the reactor head and lower vessel will be conducted during the plant's mid-cycle outage. Ohio Rate Stabilization Plan - ---------------------------- On February 23, following the completion of the cross-examination in the direct case, FirstEnergy's Ohio electric utility operating companies filed the rebuttal testimony of President and CEO Anthony J. Alexander in our regulatory proceeding for establishing generation service rates beginning January 1, 2006. In the testimony, the Companies made certain modifications to the Rate Stabilization Plan (RSP) initially filed on October 21, 2003 to address the comments and testimony of the Commission Staff witnesses, as well as those provided by some of the intervening parties. Initial and reply briefs were filed on March 17 and 31, respectively. On April 21, in response to certain intervenors' request, the Commission allowed for oral arguments before the Commissioners on the merits of the RSP proposal. Certain intervenors, including The Ohio Consumers' Counsel, The City of Cleveland, and several power marketers, argued against adoption of the RSP, while Mr. Alexander provided rebuttal arguments outlining the Plan's benefits. We anticipate a Commission Order in the proceeding within the next few weeks. Corporate Governance Enhancements - --------------------------------- On February 18, FirstEnergy's Board of Directors elected, subject to SEC approval, to accelerate termination of its Shareholder Rights Plan to March 2004. The plan was originally set to expire in November 2007. The Board also submitted two other proposals for consideration at the May 18 Annual Shareowners' Meeting. The first proposal would phase out the classified structure of the Board, whereby all directors would now be elected annually as opposed to having staggered three-year terms. The second proposal would reduce the percentage of affirmative votes from 80 percent to two-thirds for making certain amendments to governing documents. All three initiatives were in response to the support shown on similar shareholder proposals at the 2003 Annual Meeting and furthered the Board's goal of insuring sound corporate governance policies. On May 5, the SEC issued approval of the changes to the Articles and Code of Regulations and termination of the Shareholder Rights Plan. Forward-Looking Statements: This Consolidated Report to the Financial Community includes forward-looking statements based on information currently available to management. Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. These statements typically contain, but are not limited to, the terms "anticipate," "potential," "expect," "believe," "estimate," and similar words. Actual results may differ materially due to the speed and nature of increased competition and deregulation in the electric utility industry, economic or weather conditions affecting future sales and margins, changes in markets for energy services, changing energy and commodity market prices, replacement power costs being higher than anticipated or inadequately hedged, maintenance costs being higher than anticipated, legislative and regulatory changes (including revised environmental requirements), adverse regulatory or legal decisions and the outcome of governmental investigations, availability and cost of capital, the continuing availability and operation of generating units, the inability to accomplish or realize anticipated benefits of strategic goals, the ability to improve electric commodity margins and to experience growth in the distribution business, the ability to access the public securities markets, further investigation into the causes of the August 14, 2003 regional power outage and the outcome, cost and other effects of present and potential legal and administrative proceedings and claims related to that outage, a denial of or material change to the Company's Application related to its Rate Stabilization Plan, and other factors discussed from time to time in FirstEnergy's Securities and Exchange Commission filings, including its annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2003, and other similar factors. FirstEnergy expressly disclaims any current intention to update any forward-looking statements contained in this document as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. 9


