FILE:FE/FE-8K-20040219120039.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D. C. 20549 FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported) February 19, 2004 Commission Registrant; State of Incorporation; I.R.S. Employer File Number Address; and Telephone Number Identification No. - ----------- ----------------------------- ------------------ 333-21011 FIRSTENERGY CORP. 34-1843785 (An Ohio Corporation) 76 South Main Street Akron, Ohio 44308 Telephone (800)736-3402
Item 7. Financial Statements, Pro Forma Financial Statements and Exhibits (c) Exhibits. Exhibit No. Description - ----------- ----------- 99.1 Press Release issued by FirstEnergy Corp., dated February 19, 2004 99.2 Consolidated Report to the Financial Community, dated February 19, 2004 Item 12. Results of Operations and Financial Condition On February 19, 2004, FirstEnergy Corp. issued two public announcements, which are attached as Exhibits 99.1, and 99.2 hereto and incorporated by reference. FirstEnergy's Press Release and Consolidated Report to the Financial Community contain non-GAAP financial measures. Generally, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a company's historical or future financial performance, financial position, or cash flows that either excludes or includes amounts that are not normally excluded or included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, or GAAP. Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, FirstEnergy has provided quantitative reconciliations within the Press Release and Consolidated Report to the Financial Community of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures. The Press Release and Consolidated Report to the Financial Community include normalized earnings per share, which is not calculated in accordance with GAAP because it excludes the impact of "unusual items". Unusual items reflect the impact on earnings of events that are not routine, are related to discontinued businesses or are the cumulative effect of an accounting change. Management believes presenting normalized earnings calculated in this manner provides useful information to investors in evaluating the ongoing results of FirstEnergy's businesses and assists investors in comparing the company's operating performance to the operating performance of others in the energy sector. FirstEnergy's management frequently references these non-GAAP financial measures in its decision-making, using them to facilitate historical and ongoing performance comparisons as well as comparisons to the performance of peer companies. The non-GAAP information presented in the Press Release and Consolidated Report to the Financial Community should be considered in addition to, and not as a substitute for, reported earnings per share prepared in accordance with GAAP. Forward-Looking Statement: This Form 8-K includes forward-looking statements based on information currently available to management. Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. These statements typically contain, but are not limited to, the terms "anticipate," "expect," "believe," "estimate," and similar words. Actual results may differ materially due to the speed and nature of increased competition and deregulation in the electric utility industry, economic or weather conditions affecting future sales and margins, changes in markets for energy services, changing energy and commodity market prices, replacement power costs being higher than anticipated or inadequately hedged, maintenance costs being higher than anticipated, legislative and regulatory changes (including revised environmental requirements), adverse regulatory or legal decisions and the outcome of governmental investigations, availability and cost of capital, inability of the Davis-Besse Nuclear Power Station to restart (including because of any inability to obtain a favorable final determination from the Nuclear Regulatory Commission), inability to accomplish or realize anticipated benefits of strategic goals, the ability to improve electric commodity margins and to experience growth in the distribution business, the ability to access the public securities markets, further investigation into the causes of the August 14, 2003 regional power outage and the outcome, cost and other effects of present and potential legal and administrative proceedings and claims related to that outage, a denial of or material change to the Company's Application related to its Rate Stabilization Plan, and other factors discussed from time to time in FirstEnergy's Securities and Exchange Commission filings, including its annual report on Form 10-K (as amended) for the year ended December 31, 2002, its Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2003 and under "Risk Factors" in the Prospectus Supplement dated September 12, 2003 to the Prospectus dated August 29, 2003 (which was part of the Registration Statement-SEC File No. 333-103865) and other similar factors. FirstEnergy expressly disclaims any current intention to update any forward-looking statements contained in this document as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. 1
SIGNATURE Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized. February 19, 2004 FIRSTENERGY CORP. ----------------- Registrant /s/ Harvey L. Wagner ------------------------------------------ Harvey L. Wagner Vice President, Controller and Chief Accounting Officer 2

EXHIBIT 99.1 FirstEnergy Corp. For Release: February 19, 2004 76 South Main Street Akron, Ohio 44308 www.firstenergycorp.com News Media Contact: Investor Contact: Kristen Baird Kurt Turosky (330) 761-4261 (330) 384-5500 FIRSTENERGY REPORTS 2003 EARNINGS FirstEnergy Corp. (NYSE: FE) today reported that earnings for 2003 on a non-GAAP(*) basis were $735.9 million, or basic earnings per share of common stock of $2.42 ($2.41 diluted), before discontinued operations, the cumulative effect of a change in accounting, unusual items, and costs associated with the extended outage at Davis-Besse. Including those items, 2003 GAAP earnings were $422.8 million, or basic and diluted earnings per share of $1.39. This compares with restated 2002 earnings of $552.8 million, or basic earnings per share of $1.89 ($1.88 diluted), on a GAAP basis. The restatement reflected implementation of changed accounting treatments regarding the recovery of transition assets in Ohio and recognition of above-market values of certain leased generation facilities. Total revenues for 2003 were $12.3 billion, compared with $12.0 billion in 2002. Total generation sales for the year increased 8.3 percent. Total electric distribution deliveries were unchanged. 2003 Non-GAAP Earnings Reconciliation - After-Tax Amounts Basic Amount in Millions Earnings Per Share ------------------ ------------------ Earnings Before Unusual Items $ 735.9 $ 2.42 Claim Settlement 99.1 0.33 Davis-Besse Impacts (170.3) (0.56) JCP&L Rate Case Disallowance (109.3) (0.36) Asset Impairments (124.8) (0.41) Other ( 8.6) (0.03) ------- ------ Income Before Discontinued Operations and Accounting Change $ 422.0 $ 1.39 Discontinued Operations (101.3) (0.33) Cumulative Effect of Accounting Change 102.1 0.33 ------- ------ Net Income $ 422.8 $ 1.39 "We faced a number of challenges in 2003. With most of those behind us, we are committed to delivering a strong performance in 2004. With a sound and disciplined strategy and a renewed focus on execution, we expect to achieve 2004 earnings ranging from $2.70 to $2.85 per share on a non- 3
GAAP basis, which excludes incremental Davis-Besse costs and unusual charges," said Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Richard H. Marsh. FirstEnergy's 2003 earnings were impacted by $289 million of maintenance and replacement power expenses related to the extended outage at the company's Davis-Besse Nuclear Power Station - reducing net income by $170 million, or $0.56 per share of common stock. On February 12, subsidiary FirstEnergy Nuclear Operating Company requested Nuclear Regulatory Commission authorization to return the plant to safe and reliable service. Other major factors that reduced FirstEnergy's 2003 earnings included: the adverse impact of disallowed costs related to a rate decision for its Jersey Central Power & Light (JCP&L) subsidiary, which lowered earnings by $109 million ($0.36 per share); an $80.9 million ($0.27 per share) after-tax, non-cash goodwill impairment charge that reduced the carrying value of FirstEnergy's electrical and mechanical contracting companies; and $126.5 million ($0.42 per share) of after tax, non-cash charges related to FirstEnergy's divestiture of interests in assets in Argentina, Bolivia and Colombia. Also affecting the company's 2003 results were an increase in energy delivery costs, primarily due to storm restoration expenses and accelerated spending to improve service reliability; higher nuclear production costs related to three refueling outages completed during the year; and higher pension and other employee benefit costs. Partially offsetting those cost increases were net after-tax proceeds of $99.1 million, or $0.33 per share, from the sale of FirstEnergy's settled claim against NRG Energy, Inc., related to the never-completed sale of four FirstEnergy power plants and reduced depreciation and amortization expenses. Also, net income for 2003 was increased by $102.1 million, or $0.33 per share, from the cumulative effect of a change in accounting due to a new accounting standard for asset retirement costs. For the fourth quarter of 2003, FirstEnergy reported earnings of $136.2 million, or basic earnings per share of $0.42 ($0.41 diluted) on a non-GAAP basis, before the impact of costs associated with Davis-Besse's extended outage, charges related to discontinued operations and other unusual items. Including those items, fourth quarter GAAP earnings were $109.4 million, or basic and diluted earnings of $0.33 per share, compared with a restated loss of $0.20 per share of common stock in the fourth quarter of 2002. 4
Fourth Quarter 2003 Non-GAAP Earnings Reconciliation - After-Tax Amounts Basic Amount in Millions Earnings Per Share ------------------ ------------------ Earnings Before Unusual Items $136.2 $0.42 Claim Settlement 99.1 0.30 Davis-Besse Impacts (38.3) (0.12) JCP&L Rate Case Disallowance ( 8.0) (0.02) Asset Impairments (34.8) (0.11) Other ( 8.6) (0.03) ------ ----- Income Before Discontinued Operations $145.6 $0.44 Discontinued Operations ( 36.2) (0.11) ------ ----- Net Income $109.4 $0.33 Total electric generation sales for the quarter declined 7.4 percent, reflecting a 13-percent reduction in wholesale transactions and a 5-percent reduction in retail generation sales, which was attributed to a higher number of customers choosing alternative generation suppliers. Distribution deliveries to franchise customers were off by 1.7 percent, reflecting the effect of milder weather conditions on residential customer usage in the fourth quarter of 2003. Total revenues for the fourth quarter were $2.8 billion, compared with $3.0 billion in the year-earlier quarter. FirstEnergy's divestiture of its holdings in Bolivia and Colombia, and the company's recent sale of its 20.1 percent stake in Aquila Sterling Limited - the parent company of Avon Energy Partners Holdings and Midlands Electricity - marked the successful completion of the company's program to divest the international assets acquired through the 2001 merger with the former GPU. During the year, FirstEnergy improved its financial flexibility through an aggressive program of debt reduction and refinancings. The company reduced debt and preferred stock by $1.9 billion, which along with refinancing activities during the year, is expected to produce annualized interest savings of approximately $155 million. For the year 2003, average common shares outstanding totaled 303.6 million, compared with 293.2 million in 2002. This increase reflects 32.2 million additional shares from FirstEnergy's common equity issuance in September of 2003. FirstEnergy's Consolidated Report to the Financial Community - which includes financial results for the fourth quarter - is posted on the company's Internet site - ww.firstenergycorp.com/ir. To access the report, click on Consolidated Report to the Financial Community. FirstEnergy is a registered public utility holding company headquartered in Akron, Ohio. Its subsidiaries and affiliates are involved in the generation, transmission and distribution of electricity; exploration and production of oil and natural gas; transmission and marketing of natural gas; and energy management and other energy-related services. 5
(*) This news release contains non-GAAP financial measures. Generally, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a company's historical or future financial performance, financial position, or cash flows that either excludes or includes amounts that are not normally excluded or included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. Forward-Looking Statement: This news release includes forward-looking statements based on information currently available to management. Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. These statements typically contain, but are not limited to, the terms "anticipate," "expect," "believe," "estimate," and similar words. Actual results may differ materially due to the speed and nature of increased competition and deregulation in the electric utility industry, economic or weather conditions affecting future sales and margins, changes in markets for energy services, changing energy and commodity market prices, replacement power costs being higher than anticipated or inadequately hedged, maintenance costs being higher than anticipated, legislative and regulatory changes (including revised environmental requirements), adverse regulatory or legal decisions and the outcome of governmental investigations, availability and cost of capital, inability of the Davis-Besse Nuclear Power Station to restart (including because of any inability to obtain a favorable final determination from the Nuclear Regulatory Commission), inability to accomplish or realize anticipated benefits of strategic goals, the ability to improve electric commodity margins and to experience growth in the distribution business, the ability to access the public securities markets, further investigation into the causes of the August 14, 2003 regional power outage and the outcome, cost and other effects of present and potential legal and administrative proceedings and claims related to that outage, a denial of or material change to the Company's Application related to its Rate Stabilization Plan, and other factors discussed from time to time in FirstEnergy's Securities and Exchange Commission filings, including its annual report on Form 10-K (as amended) for the year ended December 31, 2002, its Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2003 and under "Risk Factors" in the Prospectus Supplement dated September 12, 2003 to the Prospectus dated August 29, 2003 (which was part of the Registration Statement-SEC File No. 333-103865) and other similar factors. FirstEnergy expressly disclaims any current intention to update any forward-looking statements contained in this document as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. 6

Consolidated Report to Exhibit 99.2 the Financial Community 4Q 2003 Results Compared With 4Q 2002 - ------------------------------------- o Electric distribution deliveries decreased 2%. Residential deliveries decreased 5% reflecting milder weather, while a 1% decrease in commercial deliveries was offset by a 1% increase in industrial deliveries. Heating degree-days during the quarter were 6% below normal and 13% lower then same period last year. Total electric generation sales decreased 7% due to a 13 % reduction in wholesale sales and a 5% decline in retail generation sales. The retail sales decline was attributable to increased customer shopping levels. o Electric gross margin decreased $26 million after adjusting for changes in regulatory deferrals, JCP&L's rate reduction, and Davis-Besse replacement power costs. The reduction in electric gross margin resulted from lower wholesale generation sales and electric distribution deliveries. o Generation operating expenses, excluding incremental expenses associated with the Davis-Besse outage, increased $30 million. Fossil operating expenses increased $24 million due to planned maintenance outages at the Mansfield 3, Bay Shore 4, and Eastlake 5 coal plants. Nuclear operating expenses increased $6 million due to the refueling outage at Beaver Valley Unit 2. o Energy delivery expenses increased $35 million as a result of accelerated reliability improvement spending, increased tree trimming activities, and storm-related restoration expenses. 1
o Pension and other post-employment benefit costs increased approximately $50 million, continuing to reflect reduced plan asset values as of the beginning of 2003, reduced return assumptions on trust assets, and lower discount rates used to value projected obligations compared to assumptions used in 2002. o Employee benefit costs decreased by approximately $26 million reflecting a greater cost sharing with employees for benefit costs as well as fewer employees. o A&G expenses were reduced by $51 million in the fourth quarter because short-term incentive compensation payment triggers were not met in 2003. o Net interest charges decreased $12 million as a result of our ongoing debt reduction program and refinancing activities. Financing activities during the quarter included $15 million in mandatory long-term debt redemptions, $300 million in optional debt redemptions, $335 million of refinancing and repricing transactions, and $150 million in new debt issuance. These activities and other financing transactions are expected to produce annualized financing cost savings of $49 million. Increased shares outstanding from the issuance of common stock in the third quarter diluted normalized non-GAAP earnings by $0.07 per share. o In the fourth quarter of 2003, we recorded as discontinued operations, an after-tax non-cash charge of $36 million to recognize the divestiture of our international generating assets in Bolivia and a loss on the sale of a mechanical contracting company. We also recorded $0.14 per share of unusual items to reflect the gain from the NRG Energy settlement claim, partially offset by asset impairments, an environmental liability, and an additional disallowance from the JCP&L rate case decision. 4Q 2003 Earnings Impact Associated with Davis-Besse - --------------------------------------------------- o Incremental expenses associated with the extended outage at Davis-Besse during the quarter totaled $65 million, or $0.12 per share ($48 million of replacement power costs and $17 million of O&M expenses). For the year, incremental expenses totaled $288 million, or $0.56 per share ($196 million of replacement power costs and $92 million of O&M expenses). 2004 Earnings Guidance - ---------------------- o Earnings guidance for 2004 remains at $2.70 to $2.85 per share, excluding incremental expenses associated with the Davis-Besse restart effort and unusual charges. Our estimate for the quarterly pattern of our 2004 earnings guidance follows: - 20% in the 1st Quarter - 35% in the 3rd Quarter - 25% in the 2nd Quarter - 20% in the 4th Quarter For additional information, please contact: Kurt E. Turosky Terrance G. Howson Thomas C. Navin Director, Investor Relations Vice President, Investor Relations Treasurer (330) 384-5500 (973) 401-8519 (330) 384-5889 2
RECENT DEVELOPMENTS - ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Appointments - ------------------------------------------------- On January 20, FirstEnergy's Board of Directors elected Anthony J. Alexander as president and CEO. Mr. Alexander, who previously served as president and chief operating officer, succeeded H. Peter Burg who passed away on January 13, 2004, as CEO. The Board also elected George M. Smart as chairman of the Board and indicated that a search would begin immediately for a chief operating officer. Mr. Smart, who has served on FirstEnergy's Board since 1997, will not hold an executive position with the company. Davis-Besse Update - ------------------ On February 12, the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) held a public meeting to report their inspection findings on the plant's safety conscious work environment and restart readiness. Also on February 12, the NRC held a second public meeting during which the company requested the NRC's permission to restart the plant. Ohio Rate Plan Proposal - ----------------------- On February 11, evidentiary hearings commenced before the Public Utilities Commission of Ohio (PUCO) on FirstEnergy's rate stabilization plan proposal for establishing generation rates beginning January 1, 2006 for its Ohio electric operating companies. We expect to receive an Order from the PUCO in early spring. Rating Agency Actions - --------------------- On December 23, 2003, Standard & Poor's downgraded FirstEnergy Corp.'s senior unsecured debt rating to "BB+", revised the company's business risk profile to 6 from 5, removed all ratings from Creditwatch and assigned a stable outlook. On February 6, 2004, Moody's Investor's Service downgraded FirstEnergy Corp.'s senior unsecured rating from Baa2, negative outlook to Baa3, stable outlook. As part of this action, Moody's changed the senior secured ratings for JCP&L, Met-Ed and Penelec from A2 to Baa1 with a stable outlook. The existing senior secured ratings of the other operating companies were confirmed (OE and Penn Power: Baa1, CEI and TE: Baa2). Non-Core Asset Sales - -------------------- In February 2004, FirstEnergy announced the completion of the sales of its remaining international assets acquired as part of its November 2001 merger with the former GPU, Inc. and the sale of its NRG Energy, Inc. claim. The international sales included Avon Energy Partners Holdings and generation assets in Bolivia and Colombia. The company also announced completion of the sale of Ancoma, Inc., a mechanical contracting company based in Rochester, NY. The net gain from these transactions increased fourth quarter 2003 net income by $32 million, or $0.10 per common share. Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission (PaPUC) Reliability Investigation - ------------------------------------------------------------------------ On January 16, the PaPUC initiated a formal investigation into Med-Ed, Penelec and Penn Power's distribution reliability metrics to determine whether actual performance is meeting the reliability standards established by the commission as part of the restructuring of electric generation in the state. The formal investigation will be assigned to a PaPUC administrative law judge (ALJ) for hearings and to collect evidence. A ruling by the ALJ is expected by September 30, 2004, to support a final Commission order expected by December 16, 2004. This Consolidated Report to the Financial Community includes forward-looking statements based on information currently available to management. Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. These statements typically contain, but are not limited to, the terms "anticipate," "expect," "believe," "estimate," and similar words. Actual results may differ materially due to the speed and nature of increased competition and deregulation in the electric utility industry, economic or weather conditions affecting future sales and margins, changes in markets for energy services, changing energy and commodity market prices, replacement power costs being higher than anticipated or inadequately hedged, maintenance costs being higher than anticipated, legislative and regulatory changes (including revised environmental requirements), adverse regulatory or legal decisions, availability and cost of capital, inability of the Davis-Besse Nuclear Power Station to restart (including because of any inability to obtain a favorable final determination from the Nuclear Regulatory Commission) in early 2004, inability to accomplish or realize anticipated benefits of strategic goals, the ability to improve electric commodity margins and to experience growth in the distribution business, the ability to access the public securities markets, further investigation into the causes of the August 14, 2003 regional power outage and the outcome, cost and other effects of present and potential legal and administrative proceedings and claims related to that outage, a denial of or material change to the Company's Application related to its Rate Stabilization Plan, and other similar factors discussed from time to time in FirstEnergy's Securities and Exchange Commission filings, including its annual report on Form 10-K (as amended) for the year ended December 31, 2002, its Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2003 and under "Risk Factors" in the Prospectus Supplement dated September 12, 2003 to the Prospectus dated August 29, 2003 (which was part of the Registration Statement-SEC File No. 333-103865) and other similar factors. FirstEnergy expressly disclaims any current intention to update any forward-looking statements contained in this document as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. 8


