FILE:FE/FE-8K-20040728110723.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D. C. 20549 FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported) July 28, 2004 Commission Registrant; State of Incorporation; I.R.S. Employer File Number Address; and Telephone Number Identification No. - ----------- ----------------------------- ------------------ 333-21011 FIRSTENERGY CORP. 34-1843785 (An Ohio Corporation) 76 South Main Street Akron, Ohio 44308 Telephone (800)736-3402
Item 7. Financial Statements, Pro Forma Financial Statements and Exhibits (c) Exhibits. Exhibit No. Description - ----------- ----------- 99.1 Press Release issued by FirstEnergy Corp., dated July 28, 2004 99.2 Consolidated Report to the Financial Community, dated July 28, 2004 Item 12. Results of Operations and Financial Condition On July 28, 2004, FirstEnergy Corp. issued two public announcements, which are attached as Exhibits 99.1, and 99.2 hereto and incorporated by reference. FirstEnergy's Press Release and Consolidated Report to the Financial Community contain non-GAAP financial measures. Generally, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a company's historical or future financial performance, financial position, or cash flows that either excludes or includes amounts that are not normally excluded or included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, or GAAP. Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, FirstEnergy has provided quantitative reconciliations within the Press Release and Consolidated Report to the Financial Community of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures. The Press Release and Consolidated Report to the Financial Community include normalized earnings per share, which is not calculated in accordance with GAAP because it excludes the impact of "unusual items". Unusual items reflect the impact on earnings of events that are not routine, are related to discontinued businesses or are the cumulative effect of an accounting change. Management believes presenting normalized earnings calculated in this manner provides useful information to investors in evaluating the ongoing results of FirstEnergy's businesses and assists investors in comparing the company's operating performance to the operating performance of others in the energy sector. FirstEnergy's management frequently references these non-GAAP financial measures in its decision-making, using them to facilitate historical and ongoing performance comparisons as well as comparisons to the performance of peer companies. The non-GAAP information presented in the Press Release and Consolidated Report to the Financial Community should be considered in addition to, and not as a substitute for, reported earnings per share prepared in accordance with GAAP. Forward-Looking Statement: This Form 8-K includes forward-looking statements based on information currently available to management. Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. These statements typically contain, but are not limited to, the terms "anticipate", "potential", "expect", "believe", "estimate" and similar words. Actual results may differ materially due to the speed and nature of increased competition and deregulation in the electric utility industry, economic or weather conditions affecting future sales and margins, changes in markets for energy services, changing energy and commodity market prices, replacement power costs being higher than anticipated or inadequately hedged, maintenance costs being higher than anticipated, legislative and regulatory changes (including revised environmental requirements), adverse regulatory or legal decisions and the outcome of governmental investigations (including revocation of necessary licenses or operating permits), availability and cost of capital, the continuing availability and operation of generating units, the inability to accomplish or realize anticipated benefits of strategic goals, the ability to improve electric commodity margins and to experience growth in the distribution business, the ability to access the public securities markets, further investigation into the causes of the August 14, 2003, regional power outage and the outcome, cost and other effects of present and potential legal and administrative proceedings and claims related to that outage, the final outcome in the proceeding related to FirstEnergy's Application related to its Rate Stabilization Plan, the risks and other factors discussed from time to time in FirstEnergy's Securities and Exchange Commission filings, including its annual report on Form 10-K (as amended) for the year ended December 31, 2003 and Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2004, and other similar factors. FirstEnergy expressly disclaims any current intention to update any forward-looking statements contained in this document as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. 1
SIGNATURE Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized. July 28, 2004 FIRSTENERGY CORP. Registrant /s/ Harvey L. Wagner ------------------------------------------------ Harvey L. Wagner Vice President, Controller and Chief Accounting Officer 2

Exhibit 99.1 FirstEnergy Corp. For Release: July 28, 2004 76 South Main Street Akron, Ohio 44308 www.firstenergycorp.com News Media Contact: Investor Contact: Ellen Raines Kurt Turosky (330) 384-5808 (330) 384-5500 FIRSTENERGY REPORTS HIGHER SECOND QUARTER EARNINGS FirstEnergy Corp. (NYSE: FE) today reported that second quarter 2004 earnings on a GAAP basis were $204.0 million, or basic and diluted earnings of $0.62 per share of common stock. On a non-GAAP(*) basis, earnings were $221.6 million, or basic and diluted earnings of $0.67 per share of common stock, excluding unusual charges related to the settlement of securities and derivative lawsuits and the sale of the company's interest in Great Lakes Energy Partners LLC. That compares with non-GAAP earnings of $152.9 million, or basic and diluted earnings of $0.52 per share of common stock in the second quarter of 2003, before a loss on discontinued operations and unusual charges. Including these items, the company reported a net loss of $57.9 million, or basic and diluted loss of $0.20 per share of common stock on a GAAP basis. Total revenues for the second quarter of 2004 were $3.1 billion, up from $2.9 billion in 2003. "Our second quarter earnings reflect the solid progress we've made this year, particularly in the areas of electricity distribution and generating plant performance," said President and Chief Executive Officer Anthony J. Alexander. "And, we've underscored our commitment to our core electric business with this year's divestiture of the company's 50-percent interest in Great Lakes Energy Partners and the remaining international assets that were acquired as part of our merger with the former GPU, Inc." 3
Second Quarter 2004 Non-GAAP Reconciliation After-tax Amount Basic (Millions) Earnings Per Share ----------------- ------------ Earnings Before Unusual Items (Non-GAAP) $221.6 $ 0.67 Lawsuits Settlement (10.6) (0.03) Sale of Great Lakes Energy Partners (7.0) (0.02) ------ ------ Net Income (GAAP) $204.0 $ 0.62 Second Quarter 2003 Non-GAAP Reconciliation After-tax Amount Basic (Millions) Earnings Per Share ---------------- ------------ Earnings Before Unusual Items (Non-GAAP) $152.9 $ 0.52 JCP&L Rate Case Disallowance (93.5) (0.32) Discontinued Operations (68.2) (0.23) Davis-Besse Impact (37.2) (0.13) Other Unusual Items (11.9) (0.04) ------ ------ Net Income (Loss) (GAAP) $(57.9) $(0.20) A 4-percent increase in electric distribution deliveries - resulting from increases of 6 percent in deliveries to residential customers, 5 percent to commercial customers, and 1 percent to industrial customers - contributed to improved second quarter earnings. Results also reflected a 12-percent increase in generation sales, including a 37-percent increase in wholesale sales and a 1-percent increase in retail generation sales, resulting from higher sales in unregulated markets. 4
FirstEnergy's generating plants achieved record second-quarter output of 18.7 million megawatt-hours - a 21-percent increase over the same period last year and a 7-percent increase over 2002, the previous record for any second quarter. For the first six months of 2004, earnings on a GAAP basis were $378.0 million, or basic earnings of $1.16 per share ($1.15 diluted) of common stock. Excluding unusual items, earnings on a non-GAAP basis were $433.9 million, or basic earnings of $1.33 per share ($1.32 diluted) of common stock. That compares with earnings on a GAAP basis of $160.6 million for the first six months of 2003, or basic earnings of $0.55 per share ($0.54 diluted) of common stock. Excluding discontinued operations, the cumulative effect of an accounting change and other unusual charges, non-GAAP earnings were $319.5 million, or basic earnings of $1.09 per share ($1.08 diluted) of common stock. Revenues for the first half of 2004 were $6.3 billion, compared with $6.1 billion for the same period last year. Net interest charges decreased in the first half of 2004 due to continued debt-reduction efforts. The company remains on track to achieve its goal of reducing debt by more than $1 billion this year. First Half 2004 Non-GAAP Reconciliation After-tax Basic Amount Earnings Per (Millions) Share ---------------- ------------ Earnings Before Davis-Besse Impact $433.9 $1.33 and Other Unusual Items (Non-GAAP) Davis-Besse Impact (38.3) (0.12) Lawsuits Settlement (10.6) (0.03) Sale of Great Lakes Energy Partners (7.0) (0.02) ------ ----- Net Income (GAAP) $378.0 $1.16 5
First Half 2003 Non-GAAP Reconciliation After-Tax Basic Amount Earnings Per (Millions) Share --------------- ------------ Earnings Before Unusual Items (Non-GAAP) $319.5 $1.09 Cumulative Effect of Accounting Change 102.1 0.35 Discontinued Operations (66.2) (0.23) JCP&L Rate Case Disallowance (93.5) (0.32) Davis-Besse Impact (89.4) (0.30) Other Unusual Items (11.9) (0.04) ------ ----- Net Income (GAAP) $160.6 $0.55 Costs associated with the extended outage at the Davis-Besse Nuclear Power Station, including maintenance and incremental replacement power costs, reduced earnings by $0.12 per share in the first half of 2004 (all in the first quarter), compared with a reduction of $0.30 for the year-earlier period. Other nuclear operating expenses were lower in the second quarter of 2004 compared with 2003, due to refueling outages last year at the Beaver Valley Power Station Unit 1 and the Perry Nuclear Power Plant. FirstEnergy's Consolidated Report to the Financial Community - which provides highlights on company developments and financial results for the second quarter of 2004 - is posted on the company's Internet site - www.firstenergycorp.com/ir. To access the report, click on Consolidated Report to the Financial Community. FirstEnergy Corp. is a registered public utility holding company headquartered in Akron, Ohio. FirstEnergy subsidiaries and affiliates are involved in the generation, transmission and distribution of electricity; marketing of natural gas; and energy management and other energy-related services. 6
(*) This news release contains non-GAAP financial measures. Generally, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a company's historical or future financial performance, financial position, or cash flows that either excludes or includes amounts that are not normally excluded or included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP). Forward-Looking Statement: This news release includes forward-looking statements based on information currently available to management. Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. These statements typically contain, but are not limited to, the terms "anticipate", "potential", "expect", "believe", "estimate" and similar words. Actual results may differ materially due to the speed and nature of increased competition and deregulation in the electric utility industry, economic or weather conditions affecting future sales and margins, changes in markets for energy services, changing energy and commodity market prices, replacement power costs being higher than anticipated or inadequately hedged, maintenance costs being higher than anticipated, legislative and regulatory changes (including revised environmental requirements), adverse regulatory or legal decisions and the outcome of governmental investigations (including revocation of necessary licenses or operating permits), availability and cost of capital, the continuing availability and operation of generating units, the inability to accomplish or realize anticipated benefits of strategic goals, the ability to improve electric commodity margins and to experience growth in the distribution business, the ability to access the public securities markets, further investigation into the causes of the August 14, 2003 regional power outage and the outcome, cost and other effects of present and potential legal and administrative proceedings and claims related to that outage, the final outcome in the proceeding related to the Company's Application for a Rate Stabilization Plan, the risks and other factors discussed from time to time in the Company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings, including its annual report on Form 10-K (as amended) for the year ended December 31, 2003, and its Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2004, and other similar factors. The Company expressly disclaims any current intention to update any forward-looking statements contained in this document as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. (072804) 7

Consolidated Report to Exhibit 99.2 the Financial Community (Unaudited) 2Q 2004 Results Compared With 2Q 2003 - ------------------------------------- o Electric distribution deliveries were up 4% resulting from increases of 6% in residential deliveries, 5% in commercial deliveries, and 1% in industrial deliveries. Heating-degree-days (April and May) were 22% below the same period last year and 19% below normal, while cooling-degree-days (June) were 21% higher than the same period last year, but 9% below normal. Total electric generation sales rose 12% primarily due to a 37% increase in wholesale sales. Retail generation sales increased 1% due to higher unregulated sales. o Electric gross margin increased $50 million after adjusting for changes in regulatory deferrals, the impact of JCP&L's rate decision in August 2003, and last year's Davis-Besse replacement power costs. The increase in electric gross margin primarily resulted from a 21% increase in generation output along with a greater proportion of lower-cost nuclear output in the generation mix, and increased kilowatt-hour deliveries. o Nuclear operating expenses decreased $56 million due to the absence of a refueling outage this quarter, compared with outages at Beaver Valley Unit 1 and Perry last year. Fossil operating expenses increased $8 million, as some of the maintenance outages originally planned for the first quarter were delayed until the second quarter. o Pension, OPEB, and other employee benefit costs decreased approximately $26 million as a result of favorable market returns in 2003, changes to health care benefits for retirees, and recent Medicare legislation regarding prescription drugs. 1
o Total depreciation and amortization expenses, adjusted for the regulatory deferrals and the JCP&L rate case impact, decreased $25 million due to increased shopping incentive deferrals, capitalization of carrying charges on the deferrals, and lower depreciation, partially offset by higher Ohio transition cost amortization. o Net interest charges decreased $26 million. Financing activities during the quarter included $16 million in mandatory long-term debt redemptions, and $1.054 billion of refinancing and repricing transactions. These are expected to result in annualized savings of approximately $42 million. Additional shares outstanding from the issuance of 32.2 million shares of common stock in the third quarter of 2003 diluted earnings by $0.07 per share. 2004 Earnings and Free Cash Flow Guidance* - ------------------------------------------ o Earnings guidance for 2004, excluding unusual charges, remains at $2.70 to $2.85 per share, but now includes the incremental expenses associated with the Davis-Besse outage, and the impact resulting from approval of the Ohio Rate Stabilization Plan. On this basis, year-to-date normalized non-GAAP earnings are $1.21 per share (1Q04 = $0.53, 2Q04 = $0.67). We anticipate that third and fourth quarter earnings will contribute approximately 60% and 40%, respectively, of the remaining earnings for the year. o Free cash flow (cash flow less capital expenditures and common stock dividend) guidance for 2004 remains at $825 million. * The GAAP to Non-GAAP reconciliation statements are available on FirstEnergy Corp.'s website at www.firstenergycorp.com/ir. For additional information, please contact: Kurt E. Turosky Terrance G. Howson Thomas C. Navin Director, Vice President, Treasurer Investor Relations Investor Relations (330) 384-5889 (330) 384-5500 (973) 401-8519 2
5
7
8
FirstEnergy Corp. Reconciliation of 2004 Estimated Cash From Operating Activities (GAAP) to Estimated Free Cash Flow (Non-GAAP) and Estimated Cash Generation (Non-GAAP) ---------------------------------------------------------------------------- ($ Millions) Net Cash from Operating Activities: Non-GAAP Earnings Guidance $885-$935 Adjustments: Depreciation 598 Amortization 822 Deferred costs recoverable as regulatory assets (125) Deferred income taxes and ITC, net (85) Other, including changes in working capital 1 175 ------ Net cash from operating activities (GAAP) 2,295 Other Items: Capital expenditures (720) Nuclear fuel fabrication (90) Contributions to nuclear decommissioning trusts (100) Common stock dividends (490) NUG trust contributions (50) Claim settlement 1 (100) Miscellaneous 80 ------ Free Cash Flow (Non-GAAP) 825 Claim settlement 1 100 Miscellaneous asset sales 125 ------ Cash Generation (Non-GAAP) 2 $1,050 Notes: 1 On a GAAP basis, the $100 million after-tax cash benefit from the claim settlement is reflected in "Other, including changes in working capital." Since we do not consider this one-time settlement to be part of "Free Cash Flow," we removed it from the subtotal and then added it back to include it as a component of "Cash Generation." 2 Potential proceeds from a JCP&L deferred energy cost securitization, not included in the above total, would be an additional source of cash to be used for debt retirement in 2004. 10
RECENT DEVELOPMENTS - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Ohio Rate Stabilization Plan - ---------------------------- On June 18, FirstEnergy filed an application for rehearing of its Rate Stabilization Plan which the Public Utilities Commission of Ohio (PUCO) approved on June 9. While much of the plan was approved as filed, the company is asking for a rehearing of certain issues such as the ability to recover increased costs for fuel and environmental expenditures, and the ability to defer costs associated with distribution reliability improvements. The PUCO is expected to issue a comprehensive order on all of the rehearing requests. Appointment of Chief Operating Officer - -------------------------------------- On July 23, FirstEnergy announced that Richard R. Grigg has been elected executive vice president and chief operating officer. Mr. Grigg retired earlier this year as president and chief executive officer of WE Generation, after nearly 34 years with Wisconsin Energy Corporation. He will lead several operating business units including Energy Delivery, Fossil Generation, and Commodity Operations, starting in late August. Sale of Great Lakes Energy Partners - ----------------------------------- During June, FirstEnergy sold its 50% interest in Great Lakes Energy Partners. The sale generated net after-tax cash proceeds of approximately $150 million, which were used to accelerate the company's debt reduction. The sale continues our efforts to divest non-core assets and businesses. $1 Billion FirstEnergy Corp. Credit Facility Renewal - ---------------------------------------------------- On June 22, FirstEnergy completed the replacement of $1 billion of credit facilities. The three-year holding company senior unsecured revolving credit facility replaces various other credit facilities at the holding company and at Ohio Edison that were scheduled to expire this fall. The new facility, combined with other existing credit facilities, brings the total capacity of FirstEnergy's primary credit facilities to $2.3 billion. JCP&L Regulatory Update - ----------------------- On May 18, the New Jersey Board of Public Utilities (BPU) issued its final written order on last year's JCP&L base rate case. On June 1, the Company filed a motion for reconsideration of the final order. On July 7, the BPU agreed to rehear certain issues in the order. Oral arguments have been scheduled for August 4. On July 16, JCP&L submitted its Phase II rate filing with the BPU. The filing includes an increase in base rates of $36 million annually to recover the costs of projects designed to enhance system reliability and provide a ROE to JCP&L similar to that of other utilities in the state. The filing also seeks to recognize the impact of certain NJBPU-approved restructured purchase-power contracts with NUGs by increasing the deferred recovery component of the Market Transition Charges by $20 million annually. If approved, the $56 million request would result in a 2.6% base rate increase. Settlement of Securities and Derivative Lawsuits - ------------------------------------------------ FirstEnergy has reached an agreement that resolves all pending securities and derivative lawsuits related to the extended outage at Davis-Besse; the August 14, 2003, regional power outage; and financial restatements related to changed accounting treatments for transition assets being recovered in Ohio. The agreement, which does not constitute any admission of wrongdoing and is subject to court approval, provides for a total settlement amount of $89.9 million, of which approximately $72 million will be paid by the company's insurance carriers. Forward-Looking Statements: This Consolidated Report to the Financial Community includes forward-looking statements based on information currently available to management. Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. These statements typically contain, but are not limited to, the terms "anticipate," "potential," "expect," "believe," "estimate," and similar words. Actual results may differ materially due to the speed and nature of increased competition and deregulation in the electric utility industry, economic or weather conditions affecting future sales and margins, changes in markets for energy services, changing energy and commodity market prices, replacement power costs being higher than anticipated or inadequately hedged, maintenance costs being higher than anticipated, legislative and regulatory changes (including revised environmental requirements), adverse regulatory or legal decisions and the outcome of governmental investigations, availability and cost of capital, the continuing availability and operation of generating units, the inability to accomplish or realize anticipated benefits of strategic goals, the ability to improve electric commodity margins and to experience growth in the distribution business, the ability to access the public securities markets, further investigation into the causes of the August 14, 2003 regional power outage and the outcome, cost and other effects of present and potential legal and administrative proceedings and claims related to that outage, the final outcome in the proceeding related to its Rate Stabilization Plan, the risks and other factors discussed from time to time in FirstEnergy's Securities and Exchange Commission filings, including its annual report on Form 10-K (as amended) for the year ended December 31, 2003, and its report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2004, and other similar factors. FirstEnergy expressly disclaims any current intention to update any forward-looking statements contained in this document as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. 11


