FILE:FE/FE-8K-20051025113023.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2.):
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On October 25, 2005, FirstEnergy Corp. issued two public announcements, which are attached as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 hereto and incorporated by reference. FirstEnergy's Press Release and Consolidated Report to the Financial Community contain non-GAAP* financial measures. Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, FirstEnergy has provided quantitative reconciliations within the Press Release and Consolidated Report to the Financial Community of the non-GAAP* financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
The Press Release and Consolidated Report to the Financial Community include normalized earnings per share, which is not calculated in accordance with GAAP because it excludes the impact of "unusual items". Unusual items reflect the impact on earnings of events that are not routine, may be related to discontinued businesses or may be the cumulative effect of an accounting change. Management believes presenting normalized earnings calculated in this manner provides useful information to investors in evaluating the ongoing results of FirstEnergy's businesses and assists investors in comparing the company's operating performance to the operating performance of others in the energy sector. The Consolidated Report to the Financial Community also includes references to free cash flow and cash generation which are not defined under GAAP. Management believes presenting these non-GAAP* measures provides useful information to investors in assessing FirstEnergy's normalized operating performance from a cash perspective. FirstEnergys management frequently references these non-GAAP* financial measures in its decision-making, using them to facilitate historical and ongoing performance comparisons as well as comparisons to the performance of peer companies.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c) Exhibits.
*This Form 8-K contains non-GAAP financial measures. Generally, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a company's historical or future financial performance, financial position, or cash flows that either excludes or includes amounts, or is subject to adjustment that have the effect of excluding or including amounts, that are not normally excluded or included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, or GAAP.
Forward-Looking Statements:
This Form 8-K includes forward-looking statements based on information currently available to management. Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. These statements typically contain, but are not limited to, the terms "anticipate", "potential", "expect", "believe", "estimate" and similar words. Actual results may differ materially due to the speed and nature of increased competition and deregulation in the electric utility industry, economic or weather conditions affecting future sales and margins, changes in markets for energy services, changing energy and commodity market prices, replacement power costs being higher than anticipated or inadequately hedged, the continued ability of our regulated utilities to collect transition and other charges, maintenance costs being higher than anticipated, legislative and regulatory changes (including revised environmental requirements), the uncertainty of the timing and amounts of the capital expenditures (including that such amounts could be higher than anticipated) or levels of emission reductions related to the settlement agreement resolving the New Source Review litigation, adverse regulatory or legal decisions and outcomes (including, but not limited to, the revocation of necessary licenses or operating permits, fines or other enforcement actions and remedies) of government investigations and oversight, including by the Securities and Exchange Commission, the United States Attorneys Office and the Nuclear Regulatory Commission as disclosed in the registrant's Securities and Exchange Commission filings, generally, and with respect to the Davis-Besse Nuclear Power Station outage and heightened scrutiny at the Perry Nuclear Power Plant in particular, the availability and cost of capital, the continuing availability and operation of generating units, the ability of generating units to continue to operate at, or near full capacity, the inability to accomplish or realize anticipated benefits of strategic goals (including the proposed transfer of nuclear generation assets), the ability to improve electric commodity margins and to experience growth in the distribution business, any decision of the Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission regarding the plan filed by Pennsylvania Power Company on October 11, 2005 to secure electricity supply for its customers at a set rate, the ability to access the public securities and other capital markets, the outcome, cost and other effects of present and potential legal and administrative proceedings and claims related to the August 14, 2003 regional power outage, the final outcome in the proceeding related to FirstEnergy's Application for a Rate Stabilization Plan (RSP) in Ohio, specifically, the Public Utilities Commission of Ohio's acceptance of the September 9, 2005 proposed supplement to the RSP, the risks and other factors discussed from time to time in the registrant's Securities and Exchange Commission filings, and other similar factors. Dividends from time to time during any annual period may in aggregate vary from the indicated amounts due to circumstances considered by the Board at the time of the actual declarations. The registrant expressly disclaims any current intention to update any forward-looking statements contained in this document as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
 
 
2
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
October 25, 2005
3

FirstEnergy Corp. (NYSE: FE) today reported that third quarter 2005 net income on a non-GAAP
(*)
basis was $341.9 million, or basic and diluted earnings of $1.04 per share of common stock, excluding a $0.03 per share charge from a labor arbitration decision in New Jersey associated with the companys Jersey Central Power & Light subsidiary. On a GAAP basis, net income was $332.4 million, or basic and diluted earnings of $1.01 per share of common stock.
These results compare with non-GAAP net income of $319.1 million in the third quarter of 2004, or basic and diluted earnings of $0.97 per share of common stock. Including unusual items, GAAP earnings for the third quarter of 2004 were $298.6 million, or basic and diluted earnings of $0.91 per share of common stock on a GAAP basis.
Total revenues for the third quarter of 2005 were $3.6 billion, up from
$3.4 billion reported in the third quarter of 2004. The 2005 revenue amount reflects
the revised net reporting methodology for PJM sales and purchase transactions that were described in the company's first quarter 2005 earnings release, reducing comparative revenues in the third quarter by $264 million.
Since this revised reporting methodology also produced a corresponding reduction in purchased power costs, there was no impact on net income.
I am pleased that our normalized earnings exceeded the consensus estimate of analysts - for the seventh consecutive quarter, said President and Chief Executive Officer Anthony J. Alexander. Our third quarter results reflect our strong performance in the areas of retail electricity sales and generating plant performance.
 
Warmer-than-normal temperatures during the third quarter of 2005 helped produce a 9.6 percent increase in kilowatt-hour deliveries compared with the third quarter of 2004.
Also, strong performance by FirstEnergys generation fleet helped the company avoid higher-cost supply alternatives. The companys generating plants posted a record net output for the quarter and for the first nine months of 2005 of 21.7 billion and 59.5 billion kilowatt-hours, respectively.
 
For the first nine months of 2005, net income on a non-GAAP basis was
$730.3 million, or basic earnings of $2.22 ($2.21 diluted) per share of common stock. Including unusual items, earnings on a GAAP basis were $670.1 million, or basic earnings of $2.04 per share ($2.03 diluted).
 
            During the corresponding period in 2004, non-GAAP net income was
$753.1 million, or basic earnings of $2.30 per share ($2.29 diluted) of common stock. On a GAAP basis, earnings were $676.7 million, or basic earnings of $2.07 per share
($2.06 diluted).
2
Revenues for the first nine months of 2005 were $9.3 billion, compared with
$9.4 billion for the same time period in 2004. The reduction, resulting from the revised reporting methodology for PJM transactions, was $828 million for the nine-month period of 2005.
 
 
FirstEnergy retired $675 million principal value of its outstanding debt and preferred stock during the first nine months of 2005. FirstEnergy also refinanced or repriced $414 million of long-term debt in the first nine months of 2005. These
3
 
redemption and refinancing activities are expected to produce financing cost savings of $27 million in 2005 and $33 million in 2006.
FirstEnergys
Consolidated Report to the Financial Community -
which provides highlights on company developments and financial results for the third quarter of 2005 - is posted on the companys Internet site -
www.firstenergycorp.com/i
r
.
To access the report, click on
Consolidated Report to the Financial Community
. Details on the companys third quarter earnings also will be provided during the companys earnings conference call, scheduled today at 1:00 p.m. (EDT).
 
FirstEnergy is a diversified energy company headquartered in Akron, Ohio. Its subsidiaries and affiliates are involved in the generation, transmission and distribution of electricity, as well as energy management and other energy-related services.
(*)
This news release contains non-GAAP financial measures. Generally, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a companys historical or future financial performance, financial position, or cash flows that either excludes or includes amounts, or is subject to adjustments that have the effect of excluding or including amounts, that are not normally excluded or included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP).
Forward-Looking Statements:
 
This news release includes forward-looking
statements based on information currently available to management. Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. These statements typically contain, but are not limited to, the terms "anticipate," "potential," "expect," "believe," "estimate" and similar words. Actual results may differ materially due to the speed and nature of increased competition and deregulation in the electric utility industry, economic or weather conditions affecting future sales and margins, changes in markets for energy services, changing energy and commodity market prices, replacement power costs being higher than anticipated or inadequately hedged, the continued ability of our regulated utilities to collect transition and other charges, maintenance costs being higher than anticipated, legislative and regulatory changes (including revised environmental requirements), the uncertainty of the timing and amounts of the capital expenditures (including that such amounts could be higher than anticipated) or levels of emission reductions
 
related to the settlement agreement resolving the New Source Review litigation, adverse regulatory or legal decisions and outcomes (including, but not limited to, the revocation of necessary licenses or operating permits, fines or other enforcement actions and remedies) of governmental investigations and oversight, including by the Securities and Exchange Commission, the United States Attorney's Office and the Nuclear Regulatory Commission as disclosed in our Securities and Exchange Commission filings, generally, and with respect to the Davis-Besse Nuclear Power Station outage and heightened scrutiny at the Perry Nuclear Power Plant in particular, the availability and cost of capital, the continuing availability and operation of generating units, the ability of our generating units to continue to operate at or near full capacity, our inability to accomplish or realize
 
anticipated benefits from strategic goals (including the proposed transfer of nuclear generation assets), our ability to improve electric commodity margins and to experience growth in the distribution business, the acceptance by the Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission of the plan filed by Penn Power on October 11, 2005 to secure electricity supply for its customers at a set rate, our ability to access the public securities and other capital markets, the outcome, cost and other effects of present and potential legal and administrative proceedings and claims related to the August 14, 2003 regional power outage, the final outcome in the proceeding related to FirstEnergy's Application for a Rate Stabilization Plan (RSP) in Ohio, including, but not limited to, the Public Utilities Commission of Ohios acceptance of the September 9, 2005 proposed
 
supplement to the RSP, the risks and other factors discussed from time to time in our Securities and Exchange Commission filings, and other similar factors. FirstEnergy expressly disclaims any current intention to update any forward-looking statements contained herein as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
 
4

Exhibit 99.2
Consolidated Report to the Financial Community
Third Quarter 2005
(Released October 25, 2005)
 
 
 
 
 
3Q 2005 Results vs. 3Q 2004
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
3
 
 
 
4
 
 
 
 
5
 
 
 
 
6
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7
 
 
 
 
 
8
 
 
 
 
 
9
 
 
 
 
 
 
10
 
 
 
 
11
 
 
12
RECENT DEVELOPMENTS
 
Second 2005 Common Stock Dividend Payment Increase
On September 20, 2005, FirstEnergy Corp.'s Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend of 43 cents per share of outstanding common stock, a 4.2 percent increase over the previous quarterly rate of 41.25 cents per share, payable December 1, 2005. With this second payment increase in 2005, the new indicated annual dividend will be $1.72 per share. This establishes the base upon which the Board is expected to apply its targeted annual growth rate of 4 to 5 percent for dividends to be paid next year.
 
Rating Agency Upgrades
On October 3, 2005, Standard & Poor's Ratings Services (S&P) raised its corporate credit rating on FirstEnergy Corp. and all affiliated operating utilities to 'BBB' from 'BBB-'. At the same time, S&P raised the senior unsecured ratings on the utility holding companys senior unsecured debt to 'BBB-' from 'BB+'. S&P stated that the upgrade follows the continuation of a good operating track record, specifically for the nuclear fleet through the third quarter of 2005.
 
Record Generation Output
FirstEnergy set new generation output records of 21.7 million MWhs in the third quarter and 59.5 million MWhs for the first nine months of the year.
 
Intra-System Generation Asset Transfers
On October 24
, 2005, Ohio Edison Company (OE), The Cleveland Electric Illuminating Company (CEI), The Toledo Edison Company (TE), and Pennsylvania Power Company (Penn) completed an intra-system transfer of fossil and hydroelectric (non-nuclear) generation assets to FirstEnergy Generation Corp. (FGCO). FGCO purchased the utilities interests in currently operating non-nuclear units for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $1.6 billion (OE - $980 million; CEI - $389 million; TE - $88 million; Penn - $125 million). FGCO also assumed certain assets and liabilities relating to the purchased units. The transferred assets do not include leasehold interests of CEI and TE in certain units under existing sale and leaseback arrangements. FirstEnergy anticipates completion of the intra-system transfer of nuclear generation assets at book value by the end of the year.
Competitive Bid Process Schedule in Ohio
On September 28, 2005, the Public Utilities Commission of Ohio (PUCO) approved the schedule for the second Competitive Bid Process (CBP) for FirstEnergy's Ohio regulated retail load. The CBP bidding to potentially provide firm generation service for 2007 and 2008 actual load requirements will commence on March 21, 2006 and the PUCO will determine the acceptance or rejection of the CBP results within two business days after the completion of the auction. Full details on the CBP can be found at
www.firstenergy-auction.com
http://www.firstenergy-auction.com
.
 
Rate Certainty Plan Filing in Ohio
On September 9, 2005, OE, CEI, and TE filed a Rate Certainty Plan (RCP) that, if approved by the PUCO, would essentially maintain current electricity prices through 2008. The RCP has been designed to provide customers with lower, more certain rate levels than otherwise available under the Rate Stabilization Plan (RSP) during the Plan period, and to provide the Companies with financial results generally comparable to those attainable under the RSP. Several parties joined in a Stipulation and Recommendation to support the RCP and the PUCOs approval of the Application. Signatory parties included the Industrial Energy Users - Ohio, the Ohio Energy Group and the cities of Cleveland, Akron, and Parma. The PUCO has scheduled the evidentiary hearing on the RCP proposal to commence on November 29, 2005.
 
Competitive Electricity Supply for Penn Power
On October 11, 2005, Penn filed a plan with the Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission to secure electricity supply for its customers at set rates following the end of the transition period established for Penn under the states electric competition law.
 
Penn is recommending that a Request for Proposal (RFP) process be used to secure electricity from third-party suppliers for the period January 1, 2007 through May 31, 2008. Penns proposal provides that the RFP be managed by an independent consultant and seek bids on approximately 900 megawatts of electricity in 18 increments of approximately 50 megawatts each. Any one supplier would be limited to no more than 12 increments, or 600 megawatts of the total load.
13
 
Forward-Looking Statements:
 
This Consolidated Report to the Financial Community includes forward-looking statements based on information currently available to management. Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. These statements typically contain, but are not limited to, the terms "anticipate," "potential," "expect," "believe," "estimate" and similar words. Actual results may differ materially due to the speed and nature of increased competition and deregulation in the electric utility industry, economic or weather conditions affecting future sales and margins, changes in markets for energy services, changing energy and commodity market prices, replacement power costs being higher than anticipated or inadequately hedged, the continued ability of our regulated utilities to collect transition and other charges, maintenance costs being higher than anticipated, legislative and regulatory changes (including revised environmental requirements), the uncertainty of the timing and amounts of the capital expenditures (including that such amounts could be higher than anticipated) or levels of emission reductions related to the settlement agreement resolving the New Source Review litigation, adverse regulatory or legal decisions and outcomes (including, but not limited to, the revocation of necessary licenses or operating permits, fines or other enforcement actions and remedies) of governmental investigations and oversight, including by the Securities and Exchange Commission, the United States Attorney's Office and the Nuclear Regulatory Commission as disclosed in our Securities and Exchange Commission filings, generally, and with respect to the Davis-Besse Nuclear Power Station outage and heightened scrutiny at the Perry Nuclear Power Plant in particular, the availability and cost of capital, the continuing availability and operation of generating units, the ability of our generating units to continue to operate at, or near full capacity, our inability to accomplish or realize anticipated benefits from strategic goals (including the proposed transfer of nuclear generation assets), our ability to improve electric commodity margins and to experience growth in the distribution business, any decision of the Pennsylvania Public Utilities Commission regarding the plan filed by Pennsylvania Power Company on October 11, 2005 to secure electricity supply for its customers at a set rate, our ability to access the public securities and other capital markets, the outcome, cost and other effects of present and potential legal and administrative proceedings and claims related to the August 14, 2003 regional power outage, the final outcome in the proceeding related to FirstEnergy's Application for a Rate Stabilization Plan in Ohio, including, but not limited to, Public Utilities Commission of Ohio's acceptance of our September 9, 2005 Rate Certainty Plan filing, the risks and other factors discussed from time to time in our Securities and Exchange Commission filings, and other similar factors. Dividends declared from time to time during any annual period may in aggregate vary from the indicated amounts due to circumstances considered by the Board at the time of the actual declarations. A security rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and it may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time. FirstEnergy expressly disclaims any current intention to update any forward-looking statements contained herein as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
 
14
 
 
 
 


