FILE:FE/FE-8K-20051129162312.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2.):
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
On November 29, 2005, FirstEnergy Corp. announced changes to components of its 2005 and 2006 financial guidance. FirstEnergy affirmed its 2005 non-GAAP* earnings guidance of $2.85 to $3.00 per share of common stock and revised its 2005 estimated non-GAAP* cash generation guidance from $620 million to $390 million. The modification of non-GAAP* cash generation guidance reflects a $100 million increase from the release of cash collateral following FirstEnergy's recent credit rating upgrade from Standard & Poor's, offset by a reduction of $330 million (net of tax) to reflect the mid-point of a $500 million to $600 million voluntary pension contribution discussed in Item 8.01 below. The 2005 GAAP earnings are expected to be $2.67 to $2.82 per share of common stock and the 2005 net cash from operating activities (GAAP) is expected to be approximately $1.9 billion.
 
FirstEnergy also raised its 2006 non-GAAP* earnings guidance upward by $0.05 per share to $3.45 to $3.65 per share of common stock, excluding unusual items that may occur. In addition, FirstEnergy raised its 2006 non-GAAP* cash generation guidance to $460 million from its initial guidance of $300 million. The 2006 net cash from operating activities (GAAP) is expected to be in excess of $2.1 billion. FirstEnergy issued a Press Release and Letter to the Investment Community that provides additional related details. Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, FirstEnergy has provided quantitative reconciliations within the Press Release and Letter to the Investment Community of the non-GAAP* financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures. The Press Release and Letter to the Investment Community are furnished, not filed, as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, respectively, and are incorporated by reference hereunder.
Item 8.01 Other Events
.
 
On November 29, 2005, FirstEnergy Corp. announced that its subsidiaries will make a voluntary contribution of between $500 million and $600 million to their pension plans before the end of 2005. The contribution is expected to be funded through existing short-term credit arrangements, including available intercompany money pools, as follows:
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
.
(c) Exhibits.
*This Form 8-K contains non-GAAP financial measures. Generally, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a company's historical or future financial performance, financial position, or cash flows that either excludes or includes amounts, or is subject to adjustment that have the effect of excluding or including amounts, that are not normally excluded or included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, or GAAP.
2
Forward-Looking Statements:
This Form 8-K includes forward-looking statements based on information currently available to management. Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. These statements typically contain, but are not limited to, the terms "anticipate", "potential", "expect", "believe", "estimate" and similar words. Actual results may differ materially due to the speed and nature of increased competition and deregulation in the electric utility industry, economic or weather conditions affecting future sales and margins, changes in markets for energy services, changing energy and commodity market prices, replacement power costs being higher than anticipated or inadequately hedged, the continued ability of our regulated utilities to collect transition and other charges, maintenance costs being higher than anticipated, legislative and regulatory changes (including revised environmental requirements), the uncertainty of the timing and amounts of the capital expenditures (including that such amounts could be higher than anticipated) or levels of emission reductions related to the settlement agreement resolving the New Source Review litigation, adverse regulatory or legal decisions and outcomes (including, but not limited to, the revocation of necessary licenses or operating permits, fines or other enforcement actions and remedies) of government investigations and oversight, including by the Securities and Exchange Commission, the United States Attorneys Office, the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, and the various state public utility commissions as disclosed in the registrants' Securities and Exchange Commission filings, generally, and with respect to the Davis-Besse Nuclear Power Station outage and heightened scrutiny at the Perry Nuclear Power Plant in particular, rising interest rates and other inflationary trends, the continuing availability and operation of generating units, the ability of generating units to continue to operate at, or near full capacity, the inability to accomplish or realize anticipated benefits of strategic goals (including the proposed transfer of nuclear generation assets and employee workforce factors), the ability to improve electric commodity margins and to experience growth in the distribution business, the ability to access the public securities and other capital markets and the cost of such capital, the outcome, cost and other effects of present and potential legal and administrative proceedings and claims related to the August 14, 2003 regional power outage, circumstances which may lead management to not seek, or the Board of Directors to not grant, in each case in its sole discretion, authority for the implementation of a share repurchase program in the future, the risks and other factors discussed from time to time in the registrants' Securities and Exchange Commission filings, including their annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004, and other similar factors.
Dividends declared from time to time on FirstEnergy's common stock during any annual period may in aggregate vary from the indicated amounts due to circumstances considered by FirstEnergy's Board of Directors at the time of the actual declarations.
The registrants expressly disclaim any current intention to update any forward-looking statements contained in this document as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
3
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
November 29, 2005
4
 
 
 

FirstEnergy Corp. (NYSE: FE) today announced that it is raising its 2006 annual earnings guidance (non-GAAP*) by $0.05 per share to $3.45 to $3.65 per share, excluding any unusual items that may occur. Earnings guidance of $3.40 to $3.60 per share, excluding unusual items, initially was set on July 27, 2005. Additionally, the company announced that its subsidiaries will make a voluntary contribution of between $500 million and $600 million to their pension plans before the end of 2005. The impact of the pension contribution is expected to be accretive to earnings and further increase security of future plan benefits. In conjunction with these actions, the company today also increased its 2006 cash generation guidance (non-GAAP).
Based on refinements weve made to our operational, financial and regulatory plans since this summer, we believe it is appropriate to raise our 2006 earnings and cash generation guidance from the amounts disclosed in July, said Anthony J. Alexander, president and chief executive officer of FirstEnergy. And given the future requirements of our pension plans, we determined it made sense to increase funding now to help preserve security for our employees and retirees.
The revised guidance reflects the recent stipulation reached in our pending Rate Certainty Plan proceedings in Ohio, the effect of the voluntary pension contribution and higher transmission-related costs.
 
The net after-tax cost of the pension contribution is estimated to be approximately
$300 million to $360 million. The contribution is expected to reduce FirstEnergys overall risk profile, because it mitigates uncertainty regarding the plans unfunded liability.
In 2006, t
he company expects to generate net cash from operating activities (GAAP) exceeding $2 billion, with free cash flow (non-GAAP) of approximately $203 million after capital expenditures and common stock dividends, and total cash generation (non-GAAP) of approximately $460 million, as shown below:
Details on the companys 2006 earnings and free cash generation guidance will be provided during an analyst conference being held tomorrow, November 30, 2005, in New York City. Briefings on the companys strategies, operations and financial outlook also will be provided. Supplemental information is included in a November 29, 2005, letter addressed to the investment community, which is posted on the Investor Information section of FirstEnergys Web site,
www.firstenergycorp.com/ir
.
 
 
 
A live Webcast of the presentation, which begins at approximately 8:15 a.m. Eastern Time, will be available via FirstEnergys Investor Information Web site by clicking on the
Webcast
icon and selecting
FirstEnergy Annual Analyst Meeting.
Access to the Webcast requires RealPlayer 8 and at least a 14.4 kbps connection to the Internet. RealPlayer 8 basic
software is downloadable free from
www.real.com/products/player/index.html
,
or from FirstEnergys Web site.
 
The Webcast also will be archived on FirstEnergys Web site.
FirstEnergy is a diversified energy company headquartered in Akron, Ohio. Its subsidiaries and affiliates are involved in the generation, transmission and distribution of electricity, as well as energy management and other energy-related services.
(*)
This news release contains non-GAAP financial measures. Generally, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a companys historical or future financial performance, financial position, or cash flows that either excludes or includes amounts, or is subject to adjustments that have the effect of excluding or including amounts, that are not normally excluded or included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP).
Forward-Looking Statements:
This news release includes forward-looking statements based on information currently available to management. Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. These statements typically contain, but are not limited to, the terms "anticipate," "potential," "expect," "believe," "estimate" and similar words. Actual results may differ materially due to the speed and nature of increased competition and deregulation in the electric utility industry, economic or weather conditions affecting future sales and margins, changes in markets for energy services, changing energy and commodity market prices, replacement power costs being higher than anticipated or inadequately hedged, the continued ability of our regulated utilities to collect transition and other charges or to recover increased transmission costs, maintenance costs being higher than anticipated, legislative and regulatory changes (including revised environmental requirements), the uncertainty of the timing and amounts of the capital expenditures (including that such amounts could be higher than anticipated) or levels of emission reductions related to the settlement agreement resolving the New Source Review litigation, adverse regulatory or legal decisions and outcomes (including, but not limited to, the revocation of necessary licenses or operating permits, fines or other enforcement actions and remedies) of governmental investigations and oversight, including by the Securities and Exchange Commission, the United States Attorney's Office, the Nuclear Regulatory Commission and the various state public utility commissions as disclosed in our Securities and Exchange Commission filings, generally, and with respect to the Davis-Besse Nuclear Power Station outage and heightened scrutiny at the Perry Nuclear Power Plant in particular, the continuing availability and operation of generating units, the ability of our generating units to continue to operate at, or near full capacity, our inability to accomplish or realize anticipated benefits from strategic goals (including the proposed transfer of nuclear generation assets and employees workforce factors), our ability to improve electric commodity margins and to experience growth in the distribution business, our ability to access the public securities and other capital markets, the outcome, cost and other effects of present and potential legal and administrative proceedings and claims related to the August 14, 2003 regional power outage, the risks and other factors discussed from time to time in our Securities and Exchange Commission filings, including our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004, and other similar factors. Dividends declared from time to time on FirstEnergys common stock during any annual period may in aggregate vary from the indicated amounts due to circumstances considered by FirstEnergys Board of Directors at the time of the actual declaration. FirstEnergy expressly disclaims any current intention to update any forward-looking statements contained herein as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
 
 
 

 
 
TO THE INVESTMENT COMMUNITY:
 
1
 
As detailed in todays attached news release, FirstEnergy Corp. announced changes to components of its 2005 and 2006 financial guidance, and announced that its subsidiaries will make a voluntary contribution of between $500 million to $600 million to their pension plans before the end of 2005. This letter provides additional details concerning these announcements and other financial matters.
2005 Financial Guidance
We are maintaining our 2005 earnings guidance, excluding unusual items (non-GAAP)
2
 
, of $2.85 to $3.00 per share. We are modifying our 2005 cash generation (non-GAAP) guidance from $620 million to $390 million to reflect two changes. The first is an increase of $100 million principally to reflect the release of cash collateral following our recent credit rating upgrade from Standard & Poors that raises guidance to $720 million. The second is a reduction of $330 million to reflect the mid-point of the after-tax cost of the $500 million to $600 million voluntary contribution to our pension plan before year-end. Please see the Voluntary Pension Plan Contribution section of this letter for more details.
Increased 2006 Earnings Guidance
We established our initial 2006 earnings guidance (non-GAAP) on July 27, 2005 at a level of $3.40 to $3.60 per share (see the Letter to the Investment Community dated July 27, 2005 for additional details, available at
www.firstenergycorp.com/ir
). The following table was provided at that time which reconciled the increase from the mid-point of the 2005 earnings guidance ($2.93) to the mid-point of the 2006 earnings guidance ($3.50).
 
 
1
Please see the forward-looking statements at the end of this letter.
2
This investor letter contains non-GAAP financial measures. Generally, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a companys historical or future financial performance, financial position, or cash flows that either excludes or includes amounts, or is subject to adjustments that have the effect of excluding or including amounts, that are not normally excluded or included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP).
 
 
1
 
Since providing the 2006 earnings guidance, several regulatory, operating and financial developments have modified our 2006 earnings outlook and we are revising our 2006 earnings guidance (non-GAAP) upward by $0.05 per share, excluding any unusual items that may occur. The following table quantifies these changes.
 
2
Increased 2006 Cash Generation Guidance
We also established our initial 2006 cash generation guidance (non-GAAP) on July 27, 2005 at a level of $300 million based on 2006 capital expenditures of $1.1 billion and net cash from operating activities (GAAP) of in excess of $2 billion. Our revised 2006 financial outlook allows us to raise our 2006 cash generation guidance (non-GAAP) to $460 million. The following table quantifies these changes.
 
3
Voluntary Pension Plan Contribution
FirstEnergy Corp.s subsidiaries (or the company) previously made a voluntary contribution to their defined benefit pension plans (Plan) of $500 million in September 2004. At that time the contribution resulted in the Plan being essentially fully funded on an Accumulated Benefit Obligation (ABO) basis and was also accretive to annual earnings by about $0.06 per share over the 2005 through 2007 periods.
Since that time, a decline in the long-term interest rates used to discount these liabilities and restrained growth in the value of Plan assets have reduced the funded status of the Plan and will increase annual pension expense.
As a result, the companys board has authorized the making of another voluntary contribution to the Plan of $500 million to $600 million by year-end 2005. Since the contribution is deductible for tax purposes, the after-tax cash impact will be between $300 million to $360 million. The subsidiaries will initially fund this payment through available short-term credit facilities and anticipate repaying such borrowings during 2006 through positive cash flow. Our projections indicate that absent this funding, cash contributions would have been required at some point prior to 2010. Our pre-funding of the Plan is expected to eliminate this future funding requirement under current pension funding rules and should also minimize our exposure to any funding requirements resulting from proposed pension reform legislation.
 
 
4
 
The pre-funding is favorable from both a credit and liability management perspective. Due to the tax deductibility of the contribution, we will effectively eliminate a $500 million to $600 million debt-like liability through the use of $300 million to $360 million of cash. Additionally, common shareholders equity is expected to be enhanced as the contribution should reduce the minimum pension liability that has been recognized as a reduction to accumulated other comprehensive income.
Additionally, under current accounting standards for pension costs, the pre-funding will be accretive to earnings by approximately $0.06 per share during 2006 and in subsequent years. This benefit arises from the spread between our borrowing costs to fund the payment and the long-term asset earnings growth rate assumption of the Plan.
We believe it is sound liability and financial management to pre-fund the Plan at this time rather than being potentially subject to mandatory funding requirements over the next several years. In addition to the favorable earnings impact, the pre-funding provides additional benefit security for our employees and retirees, and will result in the Plan being essentially fully funded on an ABO basis.
Common Stock Share Repurchase Program
FirstEnergy will consider a share repurchase program in the second-half of 2006 after clarity of three important milestones:
We believe it is appropriate to seek clarity on these milestones prior to seeking authorization from our board of directors for a share repurchase program. In addition, managements decision to seek board authority, any decision by the board to grant such authority, and the size and other terms and conditions of such program will be subject to other factors as management and the board deem appropriate, including but not limited to available cash, the price of our common stock, and market conditions. If implemented, the program may be modified or discontinued at any time.
 
5
The company expects to achieve its targeted debt-to-total capital ratio of approximately 55% (rating agency view) by year-end 2005. Going forward, we will have the ability to issue additional debt to maintain the 55% debt-to-capital ratio as equity increases due to retained earnings growth. For example, assuming annual earnings growth of 4%, over $2 billion of debt could be issued over the 2007 to 2009 period (before a share repurchase program) while maintaining a 55% debt-to-capital ratio. Any such financing proceeds would be incremental to free cash in supporting a share repurchase program or capital expenditures.
Additional Details
Additional details on these and other company issues will be provided at FirstEnergys analyst conference being held in New York City at approximately 8:15 a.m. Eastern time on Wednesday, November 30, 2005. The conference can be accessed at the companys Internet address which is
www.firstenergycorp.com/ir
. A recording of the conference will be archived on FirstEnergys Internet site as will the conference presentation slides.
If you have any questions concerning information in this update, please call Kurt Turosky, Director of Investor Relations, at (330) 384-5500, or me at (973) 401-8519
 
 
6
This investor letter includes forward-looking statements based on information currently available to management. Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. These statements typically contain, but are not limited to, the terms "anticipate," "potential," "expect," "believe," "estimate" and similar words. Actual results may differ materially due to the speed and nature of increased competition and deregulation in the electric utility industry, economic or weather conditions affecting future sales and margins, changes in markets for energy services, changing energy and commodity market prices, replacement power costs being higher than anticipated or inadequately hedged, the continued ability of our regulated utilities to collect transition and other charges or to recover increased transmission costs, maintenance costs being higher than anticipated, legislative and regulatory changes (including revised environmental requirements), the uncertainty of the timing and amounts of the capital expenditures (including that such amounts could be higher than anticipated) or levels of emission reductions related to the settlement agreement resolving the New Source Review litigation, adverse regulatory or legal decisions and outcomes (including, but not limited to, the revocation of necessary licenses or operating permits, fines or other enforcement actions and remedies) of governmental investigations and oversight, including by the Securities and Exchange Commission, the United States Attorney's Office, the Nuclear Regulatory Commission and the various state public utility commissions as disclosed in our Securities and Exchange Commission filings, generally, and with respect to the Davis-Besse Nuclear Power Station outage and heightened scrutiny at the Perry Nuclear Power Plant in particular, the continuing availability and operation of generating units, the ability of our generating units to continue to operate at, or near full capacity, our inability to accomplish or realize anticipated benefits from strategic goals (including the proposed transfer of nuclear generation assets and employees workforce factors), our ability to improve electric commodity margins and to experience growth in the distribution business, our ability to access the public securities and other capital markets, the outcome, cost and other effects of present and potential legal and administrative proceedings and claims related to the August 14, 2003 regional power outage, circumstances which may lead management to seek, or the Board of Directors to not grant, in each case in its sole discretion, authority for the implementation of a share repurchase program in the future, the risks and other factors discussed from time to time in our Securities and Exchange Commission filings, including our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004, and other similar factors. Dividends declared from time to time on FirstEnergys common stock during any annual period may in aggregate vary from the indicated amounts due to circumstances considered by FirstEnergys Board of Directors at the time of the actual declaration. FirstEnergy expressly disclaims any current intention to update any forward-looking statements contained herein as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
 
7
 
 
 
8
 
 
 
9
 
10
 
 
 
 
 
11


