FILE:FE/FE-8K-20051024170353.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Regulation FD Disclosure	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2.):
 
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 2.01 Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
On October 24
, 2005, Ohio Edison Company (OE), The Cleveland Electric Illuminating Company (CEI), The Toledo Edison Company (TE) and Pennsylvania Power Company (Penn, and together with OE, CEI and TE, the Utility Subsidiaries), certain operating utility subsidiaries of FirstEnergy Corp., completed an intra-system transfer of fossil and hydroelectric (non-nuclear) generation assets to FirstEnergy Generation Corp. (FGCO). The asset transfers were consummated pursuant to the separate Purchase and Sale Agreements (Fossil PSAs) entered into with FGCO on May 13, 2005, in the case of Penn, and on May 18, 2005, in the case of OE, CEI and TE, as previously disclosed on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on May 19, 2005 (May Form 8-K).
FGCO is a wholly owned subsidiary of FirstEnergy Solutions Corp. (FES). FES, a wholly owned subsidiary of FirstEnergy, provides energy-related products and services, and through FGCO, operates FirstEnergy's non-nuclear generating facilities. Prior to the asset transfer, FGCO leased the non-nuclear plants from the Utility Subsidiaries under a Master Facility Lease, dated as of January 1, 2001 (Master Lease).
Pursuant to FGCO's purchase option under the Master Lease, FGCO purchased each Utility Subsidiary's interest in currently operating non-nuclear generating units at the per unit prices specified in the Master Lease for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $1.6 billion (OE - $980 million; CEI - $389 million; TE - $88 million; Penn - $125 million). In accordance with the Fossil PSAs, FGCO also assumed certain assets and liabilities relating to the purchased units. The Fossil PSAs do not transfer the respective leasehold interests of CEI and TE in certain units under existing sale and leaseback arrangements. As consideration, FGCO delivered to each Utility Subsidiary a promissory note that is secured by a lien on the units purchased, bears interest at a rate per annum based on the weighted cost of long-term debt of such Utility Subsidiary (OE - 3.98%; CEI - 5.99%; TE - 4.38%; Penn 5.39%) and matures twenty years after the date of issuance. FGCO may pre-pay a portion of each promissory note through the refunding from time to time of outstanding pollution control debt of the applicable Utility Subsidiary. The timing of any refunding will be subject to market conditions and other factors.
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure
The disclosure in this document regarding the intra-system transfers of nuclear and non-nuclear generation assets with respect to FirstEnergy Corp. is being furnished hereunder.
Item 8.01 Other Events
Consummation of the agreements to transfer FirstEnergy's nuclear generation assets from the Utility Subsidiaries to FirstEnergy Nuclear Generation Corp. (NGC), as previously disclosed in the May Form 8-K remains subject to significant regulatory approvals. FirstEnergy currently anticipates completion of the intra-system transfer of nuclear generation assets at book value by the end of 2005; therefore, those transactions are also included in the pro forma financial statements.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(b) Pro forma financial information
The following unaudited financial statements reflect the pro forma impact on each Utility Subsidiary of the completed and probable intra-system generation asset transfers, discussed in Items 2.01, 7.01 and 8.01 above. The unaudited Pro Forma Consolidated Balance Sheets as of June 30, 2005 depict the impact of the asset transfers as if the transactions had occurred on June 30, 2005. The unaudited Pro Forma Consolidated Statements of Income for the six month period ended June 30, 2005 and for the year ended December 31, 2004 depict the pro forma impact of the asset transfers as if the transactions had occurred on January 1, 2004. The pro forma financial statements have been prepared for comparative purposes only and do not purport to be indicative of future results of operations or financial condition.
2
Combined Explanatory Notes for the Pro Forma Consolidated Statements of Income
3
 
 
4
 
 
 
 
5
 
6
7
8
 
9
 
10
 
11
Combined Explanatory Notes for the Pro Forma Consolidated Balance Sheets
12
 
 
 
 
13
 
 
 
 
 
 
14
 
 
 
 
 
15
 
 
16
 
Forward-Looking Statements:
This Form 8-K includes forward-looking statements based on information currently available to management. Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. These statements typically contain, but are not limited to, the terms "anticipate", "potential", "expect", "believe", "estimate" and similar words. Actual results may differ materially due to the speed and nature of increased competition and deregulation in the electric utility industry, economic or weather conditions affecting future sales and margins, changes in markets for energy services, changing energy and commodity market prices, replacement power costs being higher than anticipated or inadequately hedged, the continued ability of our regulated utilities to collect transition and other charges, maintenance costs being higher than anticipated, legislative and regulatory changes (including revised environmental requirements), the uncertainty of the timing and amounts of the capital expenditures (including that such amounts could be higher than anticipated) or levels of emission reductions related to the settlement agreement resolving the New Source Review litigation, adverse regulatory or legal decisions and outcomes (including, but not limited to, the revocation of necessary licenses or operating permits, fines or other enforcement actions and remedies) of government investigations and oversight, including by the Securities and Exchange Commission, the United States Attorneys Office and the Nuclear Regulatory Commission as disclosed in the registrants Securities and Exchange Commission filings, generally, and with respect to the Davis-Besse Nuclear Power Station outage and heightened scrutiny at the Perry Nuclear Power Plant in particular, the availability and cost of capital, the continuing availability and operation of generating units, the ability of generating units to continue to operate at, or near full capacity, the inability to accomplish or realize anticipated benefits of strategic goals (including the proposed transfer of nuclear generation assets), the ability to improve electric commodity margins and to experience growth in the distribution business, any decision of the Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission regarding the plan filed by Penn on October 11, 2005 to secure electricity supply for its customers at a set rate, the ability to access the public securities and other capital markets, the outcome, cost and other effects of present and potential legal and administrative proceedings and claims related to the August 14, 2003 regional power outage, the final outcome in the proceeding related to FirstEnergy's Application for a Rate Stabilization Plan (RSP) in Ohio, specifically, the Public Utilities Commission of Ohio's acceptance of the September 9, 2005 proposed supplement to the RSP, the risks and other factors discussed from time to time in the registrants' Securities and Exchange Commission filings, and other similar factors. Dividends from time to time during any annual period may in aggregate vary from the indicated amounts due to circumstances considered by the Board at the time of the actual declarations. The registrants expressly disclaim any current intention to update any forward-looking statements contained in this document as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
 
 
17
 
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
October 24
, 2005
 
 
_____       /s/__
Harvey L. Wagner______________
 
                Harvey L. Wagner
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 Vice President, Controller and
            
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  Chief Accounting Officer
             
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
 
18
 


