FILE:FE/FE-8K-20050909170730.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 8.01 Other Events
On September 9, 2005, FirstEnergy Corp. announced that its Ohio electric utility operating companies will file an application with the Public Utilities Commission of Ohio (PUCO) that, if approved, would supplement their existing Rate Stabilization Plan (RSP) with a Rate Certainty Plan (RCP). FirstEnergy issued a Press Release and Letter to the Investment Community that provides information related to the RCP. The Press Release and Letter to the Investment Community are attached as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, respectively, hereto and are incorporated by reference. Exhibit 99.3, which is also attached hereto and incorporated by reference, provides a comparison of the estimated amortization of regulatory transition costs and deferred shopping incentive balances (including associated carrying charges) under the current RSP and the proposed RCP for the periods 2006 through 2010.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c) Exhibits.
Forward-Looking Statements:
This Form 8-K includes forward-looking statements based on information currently available to management. Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. These statements typically contain, but are not limited to, the terms "anticipate", "potential", "expect", "believe", "estimate" and similar words. Actual results may differ materially due to the speed and nature of increased competition and deregulation in the electric utility industry, economic or weather conditions affecting future sales and margins, changes in markets for energy services, changing energy and commodity market prices, replacement power costs being higher than anticipated or inadequately hedged, the continued ability of our regulated utilities to collect transition and other charges, maintenance costs being higher than anticipated, legislative and regulatory changes (including revised environmental requirements), the uncertainty of the timing and amounts of the capital expenditures (including that such amounts could be higher than anticipated) or levels of emission reductions, related to the settlement agreement resolving the New Source Review litigation, adverse regulatory or legal decisions and outcomes (including, but not limited to, the revocation of necessary licenses or operating permits, fines or other enforcement actions and remedies) of government investigations and oversight, including by the Securities and Exchange Commission, the United States Attorneys Office and the Nuclear Regulatory Commission as disclosed in the registrants Securities and Exchange Commission filings, generally, and with respect to the Davis-Besse Nuclear Power Station outage and heightened scrutiny at the Perry Nuclear Power Plant in particular, the availability and cost of capital, the continuing availability and operation of generating units, the ability of generating units to continue to operate at, or near full capacity, the inability to accomplish or realize anticipated benefits of strategic goals, the ability to improve electric commodity margins and to experience growth in the distribution business, the ability to access the public securities and other capital markets, the outcome, cost and other effects of present and potential legal and administrative proceedings and claims related to the August 14, 2003 regional power outage, the final outcome in the proceeding related to FirstEnergy's Application for a Rate Stabilization Plan (RSP) in Ohio, including, but not limited to, the PUCO's acceptance of the September 9, 2005 proposed supplement to the RSP, the risks and other factors discussed from time to time in the registrants' Securities and Exchange Commission filings, and other similar factors. The registrants expressly disclaim any current intention to update any forward-looking statements contained in this document as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
2
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
September 9, 2005
 
 
 
 
3

AKRON, Ohio - FirstEnergy Corp. (NYSE: FE) today will file on behalf of its Ohio electric utility operating companies - Ohio Edison Company, The Cleveland Electric Illuminating Company and Toledo Edison Company - a Rate Certainty Plan (RCP) that, if approved by the Public Utilities Commission of Ohio (PUCO), would essentially maintain current electricity prices through 2008. The RCP was developed as a result of concerns about rising fuel prices. A stipulated agreement in support of the plan has been signed by the cities of Cleveland and Akron, along with the Industrial Energy Users - Ohio and the Ohio Energy Group. Also, the Mayor of the City of Parma has agreed to support the stipulation, pending further approval by city council.
According to City of Cleveland Mayor Jane Campbell, "Im pleased that FirstEnergy listened to the concerns we and other cities raised about increasing electricity rates at this time. Putting off electricity price increases for the foreseeable future is essential to our efforts to provide basic services in the face of tight city budgets, and will be welcomed by our residents, who are trying to deal with spiraling costs for gasoline, natural gas and fuel oil."
 
 
 
   "
   
Im pleased that we were able to work with our mayors and the other parties on developing an innovative plan that meets the needs of the people we all serve," said Anthony J. Alexander, president and Chief Executive Officer of FirstEnergy. "With the approval of the PUCO, this plan will provide customers with three more years of stable prices without adversely affecting FirstEnergys financial results."
The RCP would postpone for future recovery fuel and distribution-related increases, which FirstEnergy could have filed for under its current rate plan. In fact, a request to establish a generation charge adjustment rider to recover increased fuel costs had been submitted to the PUCO in May 2005. Under the RCP, recovery of PUCO-approved costs for deferred fuel and these other items would not begin before 2009 - when the regulated portion of Toledo Edison and Ohio Edison customer bills is expected to drop because recovery of transition costs will have been completed, and transition cost recovery for The Cleveland Electric Illuminating Company would be nearing its 2010 completion date.
The RCP also provides an opportunity to apply certain customer credits far earlier than otherwise would have been possible without the plan. These credits would not have been reflected in customer bills until 2008.
If the PUCO approves the RCP, customers will pay essentially the same price for electricity through 2008 that they paid in the 1990s. Ohio Edison base rates are about the same as 1990 levels, and base rates for The Cleveland Electric Illuminating Company and Toledo Edison are about the same as they were in 1996.
Supplemental information is included in a September 9, 2005, letter addressed to the investment community, which is posted on the Investor Information section of FirstEnergys Web site,
www.firstenergycorp.com
.
FirstEnergy is a diversified energy company headquartered in Akron, Ohio. Its subsidiaries and affiliates are involved in the generation, transmission and distribution of electricity, as well as energy management and other energy-related services. Its seven electric utility operating companies comprise the nations fifth largest investor-owned
electric system, based on 4.4 million customers served within a 36,100-square-mile area of Ohio, Pennsylvania and New Jersey.
 
 
 
 
 
Forward-looking Statements:
This news release includes forward-looking
statements based on information currently available to management. Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. These statements typically contain, but are not limited to, the terms "anticipate," "potential," "expect," "believe," "estimate" and similar words. Actual results may differ materially due to the speed and nature of increased competition and deregulation in the electric utility industry, economic or weather conditions affecting future sales and margins, changes in markets for energy services, changing energy and commodity market prices, replacement power costs being higher than anticipated or inadequately hedged, the continued ability of our regulated utilities to collect transition and other charges, maintenance costs being higher than anticipated, legislative and regulatory changes (including revised environmental requirements), the uncertainty of the timing and amounts of the capital expenditures (including that such amounts could be higher than anticipated) or levels of emission reductions
 
related to the settlement agreement resolving the New Source Review litigation, adverse regulatory or legal decisions and outcomes (including, but not limited to, the revocation of necessary licenses or operating permits, fines or other enforcement actions and remedies) of governmental investigations and oversight, including by the Securities and Exchange Commission, the United States Attorney's Office and the Nuclear Regulatory Commission as disclosed in our Securities and Exchange Commission filings, generally, and with respect to the Davis-Besse Nuclear Power Station outage and heightened scrutiny at the Perry Nuclear Power Plant in particular, the availability and cost of capital, the continuing availability and operation of generating units, the ability of our generating units to continue to operate at or near full capacity, our inability to accomplish or realize anticipated benefits from strategic goals, our ability to improve electric commodity margins and to experience growth in the distribution business, our ability to access the public securities and other capital markets, the outcome, cost and other effects of present and potential legal and administrative proceedings and claims related to the August 14, 2003 regional power outage, the final outcome in the proceeding related to FirstEnergy's Application for a Rate Stabilization Plan (RSP) in Ohio, including, but not limited to, the Public Utilities Commission of Ohios acceptance of the September 9, 2005 proposed supplement to the RSP, the risks and other factors discussed from time to time in our Securities and Exchange Commission filings, and other similar factors. FirstEnergy expressly disclaims any current intention to update any forward-looking statements contained herein as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
 
 
 
 

 
TO THE INVESTMENT COMMUNITY:
 
1
As detailed in todays attached news release, FirstEnergy Corp.s Ohio electric utility operating companies (Companies), will file an application (Application) with the Public Utilities Commission of Ohio (PUCO) that, if approved, would supplement the existing Rate Stabilization Plan (RSP) with a Rate Certainty Plan (RCP). This letter provides additional details about the Application.
Background
On October 21, 2003, to address PUCO concerns regarding rising power prices in an undeveloped competitive electricity marketplace, the Companies filed the RSP to provide customers of FirstEnergys subsidiaries - Ohio Edison Company (OE), The Cleveland Electric Illuminating Company (CEI) and The Toledo Edison Company (TE) - with generation price and supply stability through 2008. Under the RSP, the Companies maintained the obligation to provide full service to customers through 2008, while still affording customers the benefits of a competitive marketplace through an annual competitive auction. The RSP also provided for the continuation of certain rate discounts that would have otherwise expired, the implementation of specified regulatory accounting practices, provisions to support customer shopping, and the opportunity for the Companies to seek recovery of increased fuel costs. After PUCO approval, the Companies implemented the RSP on August 5, 2004.
The Current Rate Stabilization Plan
Under the RSP, it is expected that customer rates will change several times prior to the end of 2008. For example:
___________________________
1
Please see the forward-looking statement at the end of this letter
 
1
 
These examples demonstrate the variability of expected customer rate levels with rates both increasing and decreasing throughout the period of the RSP. While the RSP provides customers and the Companies with substantial benefits, the rate fluctuations adversely impact the ability of customers to plan for their utility costs and the ability for investors to anticipate consistent financial performance levels from FirstEnergy throughout the period.
The Proposed Rate Certainty Plan
In an effort to provide increased stability for customer rate levels and for the Companies financial performance, the Companies propose to implement the RCP as an attractive supplement to the RSP. The RCP has been designed to provide customers with lower, more certain rate levels than otherwise available under the RSP during the Plan period, and to provide the Companies with financial results generally comparable to those attainable under the RSP.
Through a combination of modifications to transition cost recovery periods, accounting deferrals of distribution related costs, and accelerated use of the cost of removal regulatory liability to reduce deferred shopping incentives balances, it is anticipated that the impact of fuel and distribution cost increases can be mitigated to avoid overall price increases to customers through 2008.
In order to accomplish these objectives, major provisions of the RCP include:
 
 
2
 
 
 
3
The Companies have filed a Motion to Consolidate the pending GCAF proceeding with this Application.
Several parties have joined in a Stipulation and Recommendation to support the RCP and the PUCOs approval of the Application. Signatory parties included the Industrial Energy Users - Ohio, the Ohio Energy Group, and the cities of Cleveland and Akron.
Benefits of the Rate Certainty Plan
The RCP is expected to provide customers with a variety of benefits, including the following:
In summary, customers would experience lower, stable and more certain rate levels under the RCP than they will under the current RSP.
From an investor and business perspective, the RCP also provides benefits:
 
4
 
The RCP is consistent with the objectives of maintaining stability in both customer rates and FirstEnergy's financial performance. We are hopeful that the PUCO will approve the RCP in a timely manner and have requested such approval by November 1, 2005.
Upcoming FirstEnergy Investor Events
 
Merrill Lynch Global Power & Gas Leaders Conference
September 27, 2005
New York City
3
rd
Quarter, 2005 Earnings Release
October 25, 2005
Edison Electric Institute (EEI) Financial Conference
November 6-9, 2005
Hollywood, FL
Annual FirstEnergy Analyst Meeting
November 30, 2005
New York City
If you have any questions concerning information in this update, please call Kurt Turosky, Director of Investor Relations, at (330) 384-5500, or me at (973) 401-8519.
 
5
 
This investor letter
includes forward-looking statements based on information currently available to management. Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. These statements typically contain, but are not limited to, the terms "anticipate," "potential," "expect," "believe," "estimate" and similar words. Actual results may differ materially due to the speed and nature of increased competition and deregulation in the electric utility industry, economic or weather conditions affecting future sales and margins, changes in markets for energy services, changing energy and commodity market prices, replacement power costs being higher than anticipated or inadequately hedged, the continued ability of our regulated utilities to collect transition and other charges, maintenance costs being higher than anticipated, legislative and regulatory changes (including revised environmental requirements), the uncertainty of the timing and amounts of the capital expenditures (including that such amounts could be higher than anticipated) or levels of emission reductions
 
related to the settlement agreement resolving the New Source Review litigation, adverse regulatory or legal decisions and outcomes (including, but not limited to, the revocation of necessary licenses or operating permits, fines or other enforcement actions and remedies) of governmental investigations and oversight, including by the Securities and Exchange Commission, the United States Attorney's Office and the Nuclear Regulatory Commission as disclosed in our Securities and Exchange Commission filings, generally, and with respect to the Davis-Besse Nuclear Power Station outage and heightened scrutiny at the Perry Nuclear Power Plant in particular, the availability and cost of capital, the continuing availability and operation of generating units, the ability of our generating units to continue to operate at, or near full capacity, our inability to accomplish or realize anticipated benefits from strategic goals, our ability to improve electric commodity margins and to experience growth in the distribution business, our ability to access the public securities and other capital markets, the outcome, cost and other effects of present and potential legal and administrative proceedings and claims related to the August 14, 2003 regional power outage, the final outcome in the proceeding related to FirstEnergy's Application for a Rate Stabilization Plan (RSP) in Ohio, including, but not limited to, PUCO's acceptance of the September 9, 2005 proposed supplement to the RSP, the risks and other factors discussed from time to time in our Securities and Exchange Commission filings, and other similar factors. FirstEnergy expressly disclaims any current intention to update any forward-looking statements contained herein as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
6



