FILE:FE/FE-8K-20060426085659.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2.):
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On April 26, 2006, FirstEnergy Corp. issued two public announcements, which are attached as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 hereto and incorporated by reference. FirstEnergy's Consolidated Report to the Financial Community contains non-GAAP* financial measures. Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, FirstEnergy has provided quantitative reconciliations within the Consolidated Report to the Financial Community of the non-GAAP* financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
The Consolidated Report to the Financial Community includes normalized earnings per share, which is not calculated in accordance with GAAP because it excludes the impact of "unusual items". Unusual items reflect the impact on earnings of events that are not routine, may be related to discontinued businesses or may be the cumulative effect of an accounting change. Management believes presenting normalized earnings calculated in this manner provides useful information to investors in evaluating the ongoing results of FirstEnergy's businesses and assists investors in comparing the company's operating performance to the operating performance of other companies in the energy sector. The Consolidated Report to the Financial Community also includes references to free cash flow and cash generation which are not defined under GAAP. Management believes presenting these non-GAAP* measures provides useful information to investors in assessing FirstEnergy's normalized operating performance from a cash perspective. FirstEnergys management frequently references these non-GAAP* financial measures in its decision-making, using them to facilitate historical and ongoing performance comparisons as well as comparisons to the performance of peer companies.
 
The non-GAAP* information presented in the Consolidated Report to the Financial Community should be considered in addition to, and not as a substitute for, their most directly comparable financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c) Exhibits.
*This Form 8-K contains non-GAAP financial measures. Generally, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a company's historical or future financial performance, financial position, or cash flows that either excludes or includes amounts, or is subject to adjustment that have the effect of excluding or including amounts, that are not normally excluded or included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, or GAAP.
Forward-Looking Statements:
This Form 8-K includes forward-looking statements based on information currently available to management. Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. These statements typically contain, but are not limited to, the terms "anticipate," "potential," "expect," "believe," "estimate" and similar words. Actual results may differ materially due to the speed and nature of increased competition and deregulation in the electric utility industry, economic or weather conditions affecting future sales and margins, changes in markets for energy services, changing energy and commodity market prices, replacement power costs being higher than anticipated or inadequately hedged, the continued ability of our regulated utilities to collect transition and other charges or to recover increased transmission costs, maintenance costs being higher than anticipated, legislative and regulatory changes (including revised environmental requirements), and the legal and regulatory changes resulting from the implementation of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (including, but not limited to, the repeal of the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935), the uncertainty of the timing and amounts of the capital expenditures (including that such amounts could be higher than anticipated) or levels of emission reductions related to the Consent Decree resolving the New Source Review litigation, adverse regulatory or legal decisions and outcomes (including, but not limited to, the revocation of necessary licenses or operating permits, fines or other enforcement actions and remedies) of governmental investigations and oversight, including by the Securities and Exchange Commission, the United States Attorneys Office, the Nuclear Regulatory Commission and the various state public utility commissions as disclosed in the registrant's Securities and Exchange Commission filings, generally, and with respect to the Davis-Besse Nuclear Power Station outage and heightened scrutiny at the Perry Nuclear Power Plant in particular, the timing and outcome of various proceedings before the Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission, including the transition rate plan filings for Met-Ed and Penelec, the continuing availability and operation of generating units, the ability of generating units to continue to operate at, or near full capacity, the inability to accomplish or realize anticipated benefits from strategic goals (including employee workforce initiatives), the anticipated benefits from voluntary pension plan contributions, the ability to improve electric commodity margins and to experience growth in the distribution business, the ability to access the public securities and other capital markets and the cost of such capital, the outcome, cost and other effects of present and potential legal and administrative proceedings and claims related to the August 14, 2003 regional power outage, circumstances which may lead management to seek, or the Board of Directors to grant, in each case in its sole discretion, authority for the implementation of a share repurchase program in the future, the risks and other factors discussed from time to time in the registrant's Securities and Exchange Commission filings, and other similar factors. The registrant expressly disclaims any current intention to update any forward-looking statements contained herein as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
April 26, 2006
3

Akron, Ohio - FirstEnergy Corp. (NYSE: FE) today reported that net income in the first quarter of 2006 was $220.8 million, or basic and diluted earnings of $0.67 per share of common stock - a 38-percent increase over its 2005 first quarter net income of $159.7 million, or basic earnings of $0.49 per share of common stock ($0.48 diluted).
 
Earnings for the quarter improved over last year, due in large part to higher electric sales revenue, reduced transition cost amortization, and the outstanding performance of our generation fleet, said President and Chief Executive Officer Anthony J. Alexander. Led by the strong performance of our fossil plants, we established a new first quarter generation output record of 20 million megawatt hours, beating the previous record set in 2005 by more than 1 million megawatt hours.
 
Total revenues for the first quarter of 2006 were $2.84 billion, compared with
$2.75 billion in the first quarter of 2005.
 
Earnings during the period also were helped by reduced financing costs, as well as by implementation of the companys Rate Certainty Plan in Ohio. Total electric generation sales were up by 2.1 percent over the prior-year quarter, mostly due to the return of customers to the companys Ohio utilities from third-party suppliers. Unseasonably mild weather was primarily responsible for a 3-percent reduction in the amount of electricity delivered to customers, including electricity from third-party suppliers, through the companys utility distribution system. Also, higher fuel and purchased power costs for the quarter negatively impacted the companys earnings.
 
In the first quarter of 2005, earnings were increased by $0.02 per share from the combined impact of $0.07 per share of gains from the sale of non-core assets, offset by $0.04 per share of expense associated with the W. H. Sammis Plant New Source Review settlement and $0.01 per share of expense related to the fine by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission regarding
the Davis-Besse Nuclear Power Station. The company had no unusual items impacting earnings during this years first quarter.
 
The strong performance by FirstEnergys generation fleet reflects a quarterly record for fossil plant output of more than 13.1 million megawatt hours and a 20-percent increase in output by the nuclear fleet, which contributed more than 6.7 million megawatt hours during the quarter.
 
Also today, the company affirmed its 2006 earnings guidance of $3.45 to $3.65 per share, excluding unusual items.
 
FirstEnergys
Consolidated Report to the Financial Community -
which provides highlights on company developments and financial results for the first quarter of 2006 -
is posted on the companys Internet site -
www.firstenergycorp.com/i
r
.
To access the report, click on
Consolidated Report to the Financial Community
.
 
FirstEnergy is a diversified energy company headquartered in Akron, Ohio. Its subsidiaries and affiliates are involved in the generation, transmission and distribution of
electricity, as well as energy management and other energy-related services. Its seven electric utility operating companies comprise the nations fifth largest investor-owned electric system, based on 4.5 million customers served within a 36,100-square-mile area of Ohio, Pennsylvania and New Jersey.
 
 
Forward-Looking Statements:
This news release includes forward-looking statements based on information currently available to management. Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. These statements typically contain, but are not limited to, the terms "anticipate," "potential," "expect," "believe," "estimate" and similar words. Actual results may differ materially due to the speed and nature of increased competition and deregulation in the electric utility industry, economic or weather conditions affecting future sales and margins, changes in markets for energy services, changing energy and commodity market prices, replacement power costs being higher than anticipated or inadequately hedged, the continued ability of our regulated utilities to collect transition and other charges or to recover increased transmission costs, maintenance costs being higher than anticipated, legislative and regulatory changes (including revised environmental requirements), and the legal and regulatory changes resulting from the implementation of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (including, but not limited to, the repeal of the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935), the uncertainty of the timing and amounts of the capital expenditures (including that such amounts could be higher than anticipated) or levels of emission reductions related to the Consent Decree resolving the New Source Review litigation, adverse regulatory or legal decisions and outcomes (including, but not limited to, the revocation of necessary licenses or operating permits, fines or other enforcement actions and remedies) of governmental investigations and oversight, including by the Securities and Exchange Commission, the United States Attorney's Office, the Nuclear Regulatory Commission and the various state public utility commissions as disclosed in our Securities and Exchange Commission filings, generally, and with respect to the Davis-Besse Nuclear Power Station outage and heightened scrutiny at the Perry Nuclear Power Plant in particular, the timing and outcome of various proceedings before the Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission, including the transition rate plan filings for Met-Ed and Penelec, the continuing availability and operation of generating units, the ability of our generating units to continue to operate at, or near full capacity, our inability to accomplish or
realize anticipated benefits from strategic goals (including employee workforce initiatives), the anticipated benefits from our voluntary pension plan contributions, our ability to improve electric commodity margins and to experience growth in the distribution business, our ability to access the public securities and other capital markets and the cost of such capital, the
outcome, cost and other effects of present and potential legal and administrative proceedings and claims related to the August 14, 2003 regional power outage, circumstances which may lead management to seek, or the Board of Directors to grant, in each case in its sole discretion, authority for the implementation of a share repurchase program in the future, the risks and other factors
discussed from time to time in our Securities and Exchange Commission filings, and other similar factors. We expressly disclaim any current intention to update any forward-looking statements contained herein as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.

 
EXHIBIT 99.2
 
Consolidated Report to the Financial Community    
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
First Quarter 2006 
   
(Released April 26, 2006) (Unaudited)      
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
 
1Q 2006 Results vs. 1Q 2005
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2006 Earnings and Cash Generation Guidance
*
 
 
 
 
*
The 2006 GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliation statements are attached and available on the Investor Information section of FirstEnergy Corp.'s website at
www.firstenergycorp.com/ir
. The 2005 GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliation statements are available on FirstEnergy Corp.'s website.
 
For additional information, please contact:
 
 
Consolidated Report to the Financial Community - 1
st
Quarter 2006
           2
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
      
  
   
   
   
   
   
    
 
   
   
   
 
Consolidated Report to the Financial Community 1 Quarter 2006              3
st
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
       
 
 
 
Consolidated Report to the Financial Community - 1 Quarter 2006                                                     60;                               4
st
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
Consolidated Report to the Financial Community - 1 Quarter 2006                                            60;                     5
st
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
Consolidated Report to the Financial Community - 1 Quarter 2006                     60;                           6
st
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
Consolidated Report to the Financial Community - 1 Quarter 2006                                                                                                                                                                        60;                                 8
st
 
 
Consolidated Report to the Financial Community - 1
st
Quarter 2006 
   
 
9
Consolidated Report to the Financial Community - 1
st
Quarter 2006                                                                                                                                                                       & #160;                              10
 
 
Consolidated Report to the Financial Community 1 Quarter 2006                                                                                                                                                                         ;                        11
st
 
              
  
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
& #160;  
RECENT DEVELOPMENTS
 
Met-Ed and Penelec Transition Rate Plan Filing
On April 10, Metropolitan Edison Company (Met-Ed) and Pennsylvania Electric Company (Penelec) filed a comprehensive transition rate plan, including requests for general rate increases, with the Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission. The plan is the first request to increase base rates since 1986 for Penelec and 1992 for Met-Ed. The filing addresses transmission, distribution and power supply issues while ensuring that customers continue to pay below-market prices for generation through 2010. Under the preferred approach, Met-Ed requested an overall increase of $216 million or 19%, while Penelec requested an increase of $157 million, or 15%. If approved, Met-Ed and Penelec customer rates for electricity in 2007 would remain comparable to the average rates currently charged by electric utilities across Pennsylvania.
 
Record Generation Output
FirstEnergy set a new first quarter generation output record of 20 million megawatt-hours, a 7.0% increase over the prior record established in the first quarter of 2005. The generation record was attributable to an increase in fossil generation, which established its best quarterly output ever.
 
Nuclear
Plant Updates
On April 19, Beaver Valley Unit 1 returned to service 11 days ahead of schedule from a refueling and construction outage. The Unit became the first plant in the world to cut a temporary opening in its containment building and replace its steam generators and reactor head all within a 65-day timeframe. Other major work activities included replacing the turbine rotor, rewinding the main generator, and replacing about 40 percent of the fuel assemblies. Beaver Valley Unit 1 had operated safely and reliably for a unit-record of 456 consecutive days when it was taken off line for the outage and had posted an availability factor of 100 percent since its last refueling in the fall of 2004.
The Davis-Besse Nuclear Power Station is currently in the process of restarting, following the completion of its scheduled refueling outage. Major work activities during the outage included replacing several components in the plants turbine which is expected to increase power output by 11 megawatts, rebuilding two of the four reactor coolant pumps, and replacing approximately 40 percent of the fuel assemblies.
 
Renewable Wind Power Portfolio
During the quarter, FirstEnergy entered into several long-term agreements to expand its renewable wind power portfolio. On March 15, FirstEnergy entered into 20-year agreements to purchase the combined 250-megawatt output of two new wind power generation projects being developed in West Virginia, targeted to be operational by December 2007. On March 27, FirstEnergy entered into a 23-year agreement to purchase 80-megawatts of wind power from a project being developed in Pennsylvania, targeted to be operational by early 2007. When combined with existing contracts, FirstEnergy anticipates offering more than 360-megawatts of renewable wind power, more than any other company in the Mid-Atlantic region.
Ohio Competitive Bid Process
On February 23, the Competitive Bid Process (CBP) auction manager, National Economic Research Associates, notified the Public Utilities Commission of Ohio (PUCO) that the CBP designed to potentially provide firm generation service for our Ohio utilities 2007 and 2008 actual load requirements could not proceed due to lack of interest, as there were no bidder applications submitted. Additionally, on March 16, the PUCO denied applications for rehearing filed by various third parties regarding the Commissions rules for the CBP.
Penn Power RFP Proposal
On April 20, the Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission (PPUC) approved Pennsylvania Power Company's POLR supply plan with modifications. The approved plan encourages wholesale electric suppliers to participate in a bidding process to provide customers with generation service from Jan. 1, 2007, through May 31, 2008. Penn Powers POLR rates are currently capped at prices determined through restructuring agreements which are set to expire year-end 2006. As noted in the PPUCs press release, the Commission is obligated to approve a POLR plan with rates that reflect prevailing market prices and that allow Penn Power to recover all reasonable costs for service.
 
Consolidated Report to the Financial Community - 1
st
Quarter 2006                
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
12
Forward-looking Statements.
This Consolidated Report to the Financial Community includes forward-looking statements based on information currently available to management. Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. These statements typically contain, but are not limited to, the terms "anticipate," "potential," "expect," "believe," "estimate" and similar words. Actual results may differ materially due to the speed and nature of increased competition and deregulation in the electric utility industry, economic or weather conditions affecting future sales and margins, changes in markets for energy services, changing energy and commodity market prices, replacement power costs being higher than anticipated or inadequately hedged, the continued ability of our regulated utilities to collect transition and other charges or to recover increased transmission costs, maintenance costs being higher than anticipated, legislative and regulatory changes (including revised environmental requirements), and the legal and regulatory changes resulting from the implementation of the Energy Policy Act of 2005(including, but not limited to, the repeal of the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935), the uncertainty of the timing and amounts of the capital expenditures (including that such amounts could be higher than anticipated) or levels of emission reductions related to the Consent Decree resolving the New Source Review litigation, adverse regulatory or legal decisions and outcomes (including, but not limited to, the revocation of necessary licenses or operating permits, fines or other enforcement actions and remedies) of governmental investigations and oversight, including by the Securities and Exchange Commission, the United States Attorney's Office, the Nuclear Regulatory Commission and the various state public utility commissions as disclosed in our Securities and Exchange Commission filings, generally, and with respect to the Davis-Besse Nuclear Power Station outage and heightened scrutiny at the Perry Nuclear Power Plant in particular, the timing and outcome of various proceedings before the Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission, including the transition rate filings for MetEd and Penelec, the continuing availability and operation of generating units, the ability of our generating units to continue to operate at, or near full capacity, our inability to accomplish or realize anticipated benefits from strategic goals (including employee workforce initiatives), the anticipated benefits from our voluntary pension plan contributions, our ability to improve electric commodity margins and to experience growth in the distribution business, our ability to access the public securities and other capital markets and the cost of such capital, the outcome, cost and other effects of present and potential legal and administrative proceedings and claims related to the August 14, 2003 regional power outage, circumstances which may lead management to seek, or the Board of Directors to grant, in each case in its sole discretion, authority for the implementation of a share repurchase program in the future, the risks and other factors discussed from time to time in our Securities and Exchange Commission filings, and other similar factors. Dividends declared from time to time during any annual period may in aggregate vary from the indicated amounts due to circumstances considered by the Board at the time of the actual declarations. Also, a security rating should not be viewed as a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and it may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time. We expressly disclaim any current intention to update any forward-looking statements contained herein as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Consolidated Report to the Financial Community - 1
st
Quarter 2006                
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
13
 
 
 
 
 


