FILE:FE/FE-8K-20061025104540.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2.):
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On October 25, 2006, FirstEnergy Corp. issued two public announcements, which are attached as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 hereto and incorporated by reference. FirstEnergy's Press Release and Consolidated Report to the Financial Community contain non-GAAP* financial measures. Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, FirstEnergy has provided quantitative reconciliations within the Press Release and Consolidated Report to the Financial Community of the non-GAAP* financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
The Press Release and Consolidated Report to the Financial Community include normalized earnings per share, which is not calculated in accordance with GAAP because it excludes the impact of "unusual items." Unusual items reflect the impact on earnings of events that are not routine, may be related to discontinued businesses or may be the cumulative effect of an accounting change. Management believes presenting normalized earnings calculated in this manner provides useful information to investors in evaluating the ongoing results of FirstEnergy's businesses and assists investors in comparing the company's operating performance to the operating performance of other companies in the energy sector. The Consolidated Report to the Financial Community also includes references to free cash flow and cash generation which are not defined under GAAP. Management believes presenting these non-GAAP* measures provides useful information to investors in assessing FirstEnergy's normalized operating performance from a cash perspective. FirstEnergys management frequently references these non-GAAP* financial measures in its decision-making, using them to facilitate historical and ongoing performance comparisons as well as comparisons to the performance of peer companies.
The non-GAAP* information presented in the Press Release and Consolidated Report to the Financial Community should be considered in addition to, and not as a substitute for, their most directly comparable financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. Also, these non-GAAP* financial measures may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other entities.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits.
*This Form 8-K contains non-GAAP financial measures. Generally, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a company's historical or future financial performance, financial position, or cash flows that either excludes or includes amounts, or is subject to adjustment that have the effect of excluding or including amounts, that are not normally excluded or included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, or GAAP.
2
Forward-Looking Statements:
This Form 8-K includes forward-looking statements based on information currently available to management. Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. These statements typically contain, but are not limited to, the terms "anticipate," "potential," "expect," "believe," "estimate" and similar words. Actual results may differ materially due to the speed and nature of increased competition and deregulation in the electric utility industry, economic or weather conditions affecting future sales and margins, changes in markets for energy services, changing energy and commodity market prices, replacement power costs being higher than anticipated or inadequately hedged, the continued ability to collect transition and other charges or to recover increased transmission costs, maintenance costs being higher than anticipated, legislative and regulatory changes (including revised environmental requirements), and the legal and regulatory changes resulting from the implementation of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (including, but not limited to, the repeal of the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935), the uncertainty of the timing and amounts of the capital expenditures needed to, among other things, implement the Air Quality Compliance Plan (including that such amounts could be higher than anticipated) or levels of emission reductions related to the Consent Decree resolving the New Source Review litigation, adverse regulatory or legal decisions and outcomes (including, but not limited to, the revocation of necessary licenses or operating permits, fines or other enforcement actions and remedies) of governmental investigations and oversight, including by the Securities and Exchange Commission, the United States Attorney's Office, the Nuclear Regulatory Commission and the various state public utility commissions as disclosed in the registrants Securities and Exchange Commission filings, generally, and with respect to the Davis-Besse Nuclear Power Station outage and heightened scrutiny at the Perry Nuclear Power Plant in particular, the timing and outcome of various proceedings before the Public Utilities Commission of Ohio (including, but not limited to, the successful resolution of the issues remanded to the Public Utilities Commission of Ohio by the Ohio Supreme Court regarding the Rate Stabilization Plan) and the Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission, including the transition rate plan filings for Met-Ed and Penelec, the continuing availability and operation of generating units, the ability of generating units to continue to operate at, or near full capacity, the inability to accomplish or realize anticipated benefits from strategic goals (including employee workforce initiatives), the anticipated benefits from voluntary pension plan contributions, the ability to improve electric commodity margins and to experience growth in the distribution business, the ability to access the public securities and other capital markets and the cost of such capital, the outcome, cost and other effects of present and potential legal and administrative proceedings and claims related to the August 14, 2003 regional power outages, the successful completion of the share repurchase program announced August 10, 2006, the risks and other factors discussed from time to time in the registrants Securities and Exchange Commission filings, including the registrants annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005, and other similar factors. The registrant expressly disclaims any current intention to update any forward-looking statements contained herein as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
3
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
October 25, 2006

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
- FirstEnergy Corp. (NYSE: FE) today reported third quarter 2006 normalized basic earnings per share of common stock on a non-GAAP(*) basis of $1.42 ($1.41 diluted).  These results exclude a $0.02 per share charge related to an adjustment to deferred non-utility generation (NUG) purchased power costs resulting from a Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission (PPUC) accounting order and a $0.01 per share net gain associated with the sale and impairment of non-core assets.
Akron, Ohio
 
These results compare favorably with third quarter 2005 normalized non-GAAP basic and diluted earnings per share of common stock of $1.04, excluding a $0.03 per share charge from a labor arbitration decision in New Jersey associated with the companys Jersey Central Power & Light subsidiary.
 
The companys net income on a GAAP basis for the third quarter of 2006 was
$454 million, or basic earnings of $1.41 per share of common stock ($1.40 diluted). That compares with net income on a GAAP basis of $332 million, or basic and diluted earnings of $1.01 per share of common stock in the third quarter of 2005.
 
 I am pleased that we delivered solid financial results for our investors and have exceeded analysts expectations, said President and Chief Executive Officer Anthony J. Alexander. Despite the impact of milder weather compared to last year, we were able to produce strong earnings driven by the continued excellent performance of our generation fleet, which set a production record of approximately 62 million megawatt-hours through the first three quarters of the year.
   
  
Electric generation sales were down slightly during the period, with sales increases in the retail sector of nearly 8 percent offset by reduced sales in the wholesale market. Milder weather in this years third quarter was primarily responsible for a 2.3 percent reduction in electricity delivered to customers, including electricity from third-party suppliers, through the companys utility distribution system.
 
Earnings benefited from the companys Ohio rate plans, as well as from the deferral of incremental transmission charges in Pennsylvania, which was approved by the PPUC on May 4, 2006. Consistent with the Met-Ed and Penelec petition, the order does not grant rate recovery of these costs, but allows an opportunity for the companies to seek recovery in the pending Rate Transition Plan filing.
 
Also during the quarter, the company repurchased 10.6 million shares - or approximately 3.2 percent - of its outstanding common stock through an accelerated repurchase program, which enhanced earnings per share by $0.02.
 
Total revenues for the third quarter of 2006 were $3.4 billion, compared with
$3.5 billion in the third quarter of 2005. The decline in revenue is primarily attributable to FirstEnergys sale of 62 percent of its interest in MYR Group earlier in 2006.
 
For the first nine months of 2006, basic earnings per share of common stock on a non-GAAP basis were $3.04 ($3.03 diluted). In the corresponding period in 2005, non-GAAP basic earnings per share of common stock were $2.22 ($2.21 diluted).
 
On a GAAP basis, net income for the first nine months of 2006 was $979 million, or basic earnings of $2.99 per share of common stock ($2.97 diluted). During the same time frame in 2005, net income on a GAAP basis was $670 million, or basic earnings of $2.04 per share of common stock ($2.03 diluted).
Revenues for the first nine months of 2006 were $9.0 billion, compared with $9.1 billion for the same period last year, with the reduction reflecting the MYR sale. The companys generation fleet posted record output of 61.9 million MWH during the first nine months of this year, representing a 4-percent increase over the record established in the same time period last year.
 
Also today, FirstEnergy revised its earnings guidance (non-GAAP)
 
for 2006 to a range of $3.75 to $3.85 per share of common stock. The tightening of the range toward the upper end of the prior guidance ($3.65 to $3.85 per share, excluding unusual items, set on August 1, 2006) reflects the strong performance during the third quarter.
 
     FirstEnergys Consolidated Report to the Financial Community - which provides highlights on company developments and financial results for the third quarter of 2006 - is posted on the companys Web site - www.firstenergycorp.com/ir. To access the report, click on Q3 2006 Consolidated Report to the Financial Community.
   
 
     FirstEnergy is a diversified energy company headquartered in Akron, Ohio. Its subsidiaries and affiliates are involved in the generation, transmission and distribution of electricity, as well as energy management and other energy-related services. Its seven electric utility operating companies comprise the nations fifth largest investor-owned electric system based on serving 4.5 million customers in Ohio, Pennsylvania and New Jersey; and its generation subsidiaries control nearly 14,000 megawatts of capacity
   
(*)
This news release contains non-GAAP financial measures. Generally, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a companys historical or future financial performance, financial position, or cash flows that either excludes or includes amounts that are not normally excluded or included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP). These non-GAAP financial measures are intended to complement, and not considered as an alternative, to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure. Also, the non-GAAP financial measures may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other entities.
Forward-Looking Statements:
This news release includes forward-looking statements based on information currently available to management. Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. These statements typically contain, but are not limited to, the terms anticipate, potential, expect, believe, estimate and similar words. Actual results may differ materially due to the speed and nature of increased competition and deregulation in the electric utility industry, economic or weather conditions affecting future sales and margins, changes in markets for energy services, changing energy and commodity market prices, replacement power costs being higher than anticipated or inadequately hedged, the continued ability of our regulated utilities to collect transition and other charges or to recover increased transmission costs, maintenance costs being higher than anticipated, legislative and regulatory changes (including revised environmental requirements), and the legal and regulatory changes resulting from the implementation of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (including, but not limited to, the repeal of the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935), the uncertainty of the timing and amounts of the capital expenditures needed to, among other things, implement the Air Quality Compliance Plan (including that such amounts could be higher than anticipated) or levels of emission reductions related to the Consent Decree resolving the New Source Review litigation, adverse regulatory or legal decisions and outcomes (including, but not limited to, the revocation of necessary licenses or operating permits, fines or other enforcement actions and remedies) of governmental investigations and oversight, including by the Securities and Exchange Commission, the United States Attorneys Office, the Nuclear Regulatory Commission and the various state public utility commissions as disclosed in our Securities and Exchange Commission filings, generally, and with respect to the Davis-Besse Nuclear Power Station outage and heightened scrutiny at the Perry Nuclear Power Plant in particular, the timing and outcome of various proceedings before the Public Utilities Commission of Ohio (including, but not limited to, the successful resolution of the issues remanded to the PUCO by the Ohio Supreme Court regarding the Rate Stabilization Plan) and the Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission, including the transition rate plan filings for Met-Ed and Penelec, the continuing availability and operation of generating units, the ability of generating units to continue to operate at, or near full capacity, the inability to accomplish or realize anticipated benefits from strategic goals (including employee workforce initiatives), the anticipated benefits from voluntary pension plan contributions, the ability to improve electric commodity margins and to experience growth in the distribution business, the ability to access the public securities and other capital markets and the cost of such capital, the outcome, cost and other effects of present and potential legal and administrative proceedings and claims related to the August 14, 2003 regional power outage, the successful completion of the share repurchase program announced August 10, 2006, the risks and other factors discussed from time to time in our Securities and Exchange Commission filings, including our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005, and other similar factors. We expressly disclaim any current intention to update any forward-looking statements contained herein as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
4

 
 
EXHIBIT 99.2
 
Consolidated Report to the Financial Community    
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
Third Quarter 2006 
   
(Released October 25, 2006) (Unaudited)      
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Revised 2006 Earnings Guidance
*
 
 
 
*
The 2006 GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliation statements can be found on pages 10 and 11 of this report and are available on the Investor Information section of FirstEnergy Corp.'s website at
www.firstenergycorp.com/ir
. The 2005 GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliation statements are also available on FirstEnergy Corp.'s website.
 
For additional information, please contact:
 
 
 
Consolidated Report to the Financial Community - 3rd
Quarter 2006
           2
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
      
  
   
   
   
   
   
    
 
   
   
   
 
 
Consolidated Report to the Financial Community - 3rd
Quarter 2006
          
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
3
 
 
 
Consolidated Report to the Financial Community - 3rd Quarter 2006                                                     60;                               4
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
Consolidated Report to the Financial Community - 3rd Quarter 2006 
                     &# 160;                                          5
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
Consolidated Report to the Financial Community - 3rd Quarter 2006                      60;                          6
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
Consolidated Report to the Financial Community - 3 Quarter 2006                                                                                                                                                     8
rd
 
 
Consolidated Report to the Financial Community - 3 Quarter 2006                                                                                                                                                  11
rd
 
 
              
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
RECENT DEVELOPMENTS
 
Record Generation Output
FirstEnergy set a new year-to-date generation output record of 61.9 million megawatt-hours. The year-to-date output represented a 4.0% increase over the record established in the same period last year.
Beaver Valley Power Station Uprates
In August, Beaver Valley Unit 1 increased its net output capability from 821 megawatts to 846 megawatts. This three percent increase in output is the first phase of its overall eight percent power uprate recently approved by the NRC. The uprate was made possible by improvements to plant equipment and systems completed during its spring refueling outage. The remainder of the eight-percent power uprate is expected to be implemented by early 2007. Similar work is planned for Beaver Valley Unit 2. During its current refueling outage, which began October 2, several modifications will be completed to prepare Beaver Valley Unit 2 for its eight percent increase in generating capacity. After Beaver Valley Unit 2 returns to service, three percent of its uprate is expected to take effect. The balance of the eight percent power output increase is anticipated to be implemented during the next refueling in 2008. Beaver Valley Unit 2 is expected to return to service from its current refueling outage in early to mid-November, 2006.
 
Met-Ed and Penelec Rate Transition Plan Update
Evidentiary hearings in the Metropolitan Edison Company (Met-Ed) and Pennsylvania Electric Company (Penelec) Rate Transition Plan cases were held from August 24 through August 30. Parties to the proceedings filed their Main Briefs on September 22 and Reply Briefs on October 6. Met-Ed and Penelec anticipate an Administrative Law Judge Recommended Decision in these proceedings by November 8 and an Order from the Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission (PPUC) by January 12, 2007. As part of the transition of customers generation service toward market-based supply, Met-Ed and Penelec secured approximately 950 MW of Provider of Last Resort (POLR) supply under a competitive request for proposal (RFP) for the period December 1, 2006 through December 31, 2008. Recovery of the incremental costs of this supply is one of the components of the transition plan cases.
 
Competitive Electricity Supply for Penn Power
 
On October 19, the PPUC certified the RFP results for all customer classes reflecting the successful completion of the competitive RFP bidding process. The RFP was conducted to secure the POLR supply for the period January 1, 2007 through May 31, 2008 for those customers that do not choose alternative suppliers.
 
Ohio Competitive Bid Process Proposal
On September 29, FirstEnergys Ohio electric utility companies filed their proposal to establish a competitive bid process for market-based generation supply under which suppliers could submit prices to serve a portion of each Ohio Companys customer load. This proposal was in response to a July 26 Public Utilities Commission of Ohio (PUCO) directive to file plans for a competitive retail electric service option. The PUCO directive resulted from a May 3 Ohio Supreme Court remand finding that Ohio restructuring law requires FirstEnergy to provide an alternative market-based offering to customers, even if the alternative is at a higher price than that offered through FirstEnergys Rate Stabilization Plan. If adopted, customers would have the opportunity to switch to alternative generation suppliers at prices established through the RFP program during 2007 and 2008.
 
JCP&L Non-Utility Generation Cost Request Case
An evidentiary hearing was held on September 20, and settlement conferences were held in October in the proceeding involving JCP&Ls request to recover $165 million of actual above-market NUG costs incurred from August 1, 2003 through December 31, 2005. If approved, this request would increase cash flow, but would be earnings neutral. Main briefs are scheduled to be filed on October 30, with reply briefs due on November 20. An order by the New Jersey Board of Public Utilities is expected in 2007.
 
 
Consolidated Report to the Financial Community - 3rd
Quarter 2006                
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
   
13
 
Share Repurchase Program
On August 10, FirstEnergy repurchased 10.6 million shares, or approximately 3.2%, of its outstanding common stock through an accelerated repurchase program with an affiliate of J.P. Morgan Securities. The initial purchase price was $56.44 per share, or a total initial purchase price of $600 million. The final purchase price will be adjusted to reflect J.P. Morgan's ultimate cost to acquire the shares over a period of up to seven months. The share repurchase was funded with short-term debt. The share repurchase was completed under a June 20 Board of Directors authorization to repurchase up to 12 million shares of common stock.
 
Renewed and Upsized Credit Facility
On August 24, FirstEnergy and certain of its subsidiaries, including all of its operating utility subsidiaries, entered into a new five-year syndicated credit facility totaling $2.75 billion. The new facility replaces FirstEnergys prior $2 billion credit facility and provides a 10 basis point annual savings on facility related borrowing costs. Borrowings from the new facility were used to pay off the outstanding borrowings under the old facility. FirstEnergy may request an increase in the total commitments available under the new facility to a maximum of $3.25 billion. Commitments under the new facility will be available until August 24, 2011, unless the lenders agree, at the request of the Borrowers, to two additional one-year extensions. Generally, b
orrowings under the facility must be repaid within 364 days. Available amounts for each borrower are subject to a specified sublimit as well as applicable regulatory and other limitations.
Forward-looking Statements.
This Consolidated Report to the Financial Community includes forward-looking statements based on information currently available to management. Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. These statements typically contain, but are not limited to, the terms "anticipate," "potential," "expect," "believe," "estimate" and similar words. Actual results may differ materially due to the speed and nature of increased competition and deregulation in the electric utility industry, economic or weather conditions affecting future sales and margins, changes in markets for energy services, changing energy and commodity market prices, replacement power costs being higher than anticipated or inadequately hedged, the continued ability of our regulated utilities to collect transition and other charges or to recover increased transmission costs, maintenance costs being higher than anticipated, legislative and regulatory changes (including revised environmental requirements), and the legal and regulatory changes resulting from the implementation of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (including, but not limited to, the repeal of the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935), the uncertainty of the timing and amounts of the capital expenditures needed to, among other things, implement the Air Quality Compliance Plan (including that such amounts could be higher than anticipated) or levels of emission reductions related to the Consent Decree resolving the New Source Review litigation, adverse regulatory or legal decisions and outcomes (including, but not limited to, the revocation of necessary licenses or operating permits, fines or other enforcement actions and remedies) of governmental investigations and oversight, including by the Securities and Exchange Commission, the United States Attorney's Office, the Nuclear Regulatory Commission and the various state public utility commissions as disclosed in our Securities and Exchange Commission filings, generally, and with respect to the Davis-Besse Nuclear Power Station outage and heightened scrutiny at the Perry Nuclear Power Plant in particular, the timing and outcome of various proceedings before the Public Utilities Commission of Ohio (including, but not limited to, the successful resolution of the issues remanded to the PUCO by the Ohio Supreme Court regarding the RSP) and the Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission, including the transition rate plan filings for Met-Ed and Penelec, the continuing availability and operation of generating units, the ability of generating units to continue to operate at, or near full capacity, the inability to accomplish or realize anticipated benefits from strategic goals (including employee workforce initiatives), the anticipated benefits from voluntary pension plan contributions, the ability to improve electric commodity margins and to experience growth in the distribution business, the ability to access the public securities and other capital markets and the cost of such capital, the outcome, cost and other effects of present and potential legal and administrative proceedings and claims related to the August 14, 2003 regional power outage, the successful completion of the share repurchase program announced August 10, 2006, the risks and other factors discussed from time to time in our Securities and Exchange Commission filings, including our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005, and other similar factors. We expressly disclaim any current intention to update any forward- looking statements contained herein as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
 
 
 
 
Consolidated Report to the Financial Community - 3rd
Quarter 2006                
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
   
14
 
 
 


