FILE:FE/FE-8K-20060120111845.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 8.01 Other Events
.
 
On January 20, 2006, FirstEnergy Nuclear Operating Company (FENOC), a wholly owned subsidiary of FirstEnergy Corp., announced that it had entered into a deferred prosecution agreement (Agreement) with the U.S. Attorneys Office for the Northern District of Ohio and the Environmental Crimes Section of the Environment and Natural Resources Division of the Department of Justice (collectively, the Department) related to certain statements made by FENOC employees to the United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) during the period September 3, 2001 through November 28, 2001 with respect to the Davis-Besse Nuclear Power Station. Descriptions of such statements are set forth in the Statement of Facts attached to the Agreement. Under the Agreement, the United States acknowledged FENOCs extensive corrective actions at Davis-Besse, FENOCs cooperation during investigations by the Department and the NRC, FENOCs pledge of continued cooperation, FENOCs acknowledgement of responsibility for the behavior of its employees, and its agreement to pay a monetary penalty. FENOC has agreed to pay a monetary penalty of $28 million (which is not deductible for income tax purposes and will reduce FirstEnergys earnings per share of common stock by $0.09 in the fourth quarter of 2005) and cooperate with the United States and NRC during the term of the Agreement, which runs through December 31, 2006, in all criminal and administrative investigations and proceedings related to the conduct described in the Statement of Facts attached to the Agreement. As part of the Agreement, $4.35 million of the monetary penalty will be directed to community service projects with the agreement of FENOC and the Department of Justice. Recipients include the Ottawa National Wildlife Refuge, Ottawa County Emergency Management Agency, University of Toledo Foundation for the College of Engineering, Cuyahoga Valley National Park and Habitat for Humanity International.
In consideration for FENOCs (i) $28 million payment, (ii) cooperation as described above, (iii) acceptance and acknowledgement of responsibility for its conduct as described in the Statement of Facts attached to the Agreement, (iv) compliance with federal criminal laws, and (v) compliance with the terms of the Agreement, the Department has agreed to refrain from seeking an indictment or otherwise initiating criminal prosecution of FENOC for the conduct described in the Statement of Facts attached to the Agreement.
The press release issued by FENOC on January 20, 2006 is filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and is incorporated herein by reference. A copy of the Agreement is filed as Exhibit 99.2 to this report and is incorporated herein by reference. The foregoing description of the Agreement is qualified in its entirety by reference to the actual text of the Agreement.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c) Exhibits.
2
 
Forward-Looking Statements
: This Form 8-K includes forward-looking statements based on information currently available to management. Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. These statements typically contain, but are not limited to, the terms "anticipate," "potential," "expect," "believe," "estimate" and similar words. Actual results may differ materially due to the speed and nature of increased competition and deregulation in the electric utility industry, economic or weather conditions affecting future sales and margins, changes in markets for energy services, changing energy and commodity market prices, replacement power costs being higher than anticipated or inadequately hedged, the continued ability of our regulated utilities to collect transition and other charges or to recover increased transmission costs, maintenance costs being higher than anticipated, legislative and regulatory changes (including revised environmental requirements), the uncertainty of the timing and amounts of the capital expenditures (including that such amounts could be higher than anticipated) or levels of emission reductions related to the settlement agreement resolving the New Source Review litigation, adverse regulatory or legal decisions and outcomes (including, but not limited to, the revocation of necessary licenses or operating permits, fines or other enforcement actions and remedies) of governmental investigations and oversight, including by the Securities and Exchange Commission, the United States Attorney's Office, the Nuclear Regulatory Commission and the various state public utility commissions (including the final outcome of further proceedings with respect to the Ohio companies' Rate Certainty Plan) as disclosed in the registrants Securities and Exchange Commission filings, generally, and with respect to the Davis-Besse Nuclear Power Station outage and heightened scrutiny at the Perry Nuclear Power Plant in particular, the continuing availability and operation of generating units, the ability of generating units to continue to operate at, or near full capacity, the inability to accomplish or realize anticipated benefits from strategic goals (including employee workforce factors), the ability to improve electric commodity margins and to experience growth in the distribution business, the ability to access the public securities and other capital markets and the cost of such capital, the outcome, cost and other effects of present and potential legal and administrative proceedings and claims related to the August 14, 2003 regional power outage, circumstances which may lead management to seek, or the Board of Directors to grant, in each case in its sole discretion, authority for the implementation of a share repurchase program in the future, the risks and other factors discussed from time to time in the registrants Securities and Exchange Commission filings, including its annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004, and other similar factors. The registrant expressly disclaims any current intention to update any forward-looking statements contained herein as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
3
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
January 20, 2006
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4
 
 
 
 
 
 

                  EXHIBIT 99.1
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
FirstEnergy Nuclear Operating Company (FENOC) today announced that it has entered into a deferred prosecution agreement with the U.S. Attorneys Office for the Northern District of Ohio and the Environmental Crimes Section of the Environment and Natural Resources Division of the Department of Justice related to FENOCs communications with the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) during the fall of 2001 in connection with the reactor head issue at the Davis-Besse Nuclear Power Station.
Under the agreement, the Department of Justice will refrain from seeking an indictment or otherwise initiating criminal prosecution of FENOC for all conduct related to the reactor head issue, as long as FENOC remains in compliance with the agreement, which the company fully intends.
FENOC regrets the significant performance deficiencies that led to the reactor head issue and accepts full responsibility for the failure to accurately communicate with the NRC. We have learned much from this experience, and FENOC is a better and stronger company today than in 2001 when this occurred, said FENOC President and Chief Nuclear Officer Gary R. Leidich. The agreement closes an important chapter on the Davis-Besse reactor head issue for the company. FENOC will continue to focus on safe, reliable plant operations, and do nothing to retreat from its recovery nor erode the trust it has regained.
 
 
 
 
FENOC has agreed to pay a penalty of $28 million. As part of the deferred prosecution agreement entered into with the Department of Justice, $4.35 million of that amount will be directed to community service projects with the agreement of FENOC and the Department of Justice. Recipients will include the Ottawa National Wildlife Refuge, Ottawa County Emergency Management Agency, University of Toledo Foundation for the College of Engineering, Cuyahoga Valley National Park and Habitat for Humanity International.
In entering into this agreement, the United States acknowledged FENOCs extensive corrective actions at Davis-Besse, FENOCs cooperation during investigations by the Department and the NRC, FENOCs pledge of continued cooperation, FENOCs acknowledgement of responsibility for the behavior of its employees and its agreement to pay a monetary penalty.
The problem with the plants reactor head was discovered by FENOC during a comprehensive inspection and promptly reported by the company to the NRC in March 2002. Subsequently, FENOC thoroughly investigated the causes of the problem, replaced the reactor head and made numerous staff changes as well as improved plant programs, equipment and safety culture. Davis-Besse has operated safely and reliably since restarting in March 2004.
A copy of the agreement was included by FirstEnergy as a Current Report on Form 8-K filed today with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
FENOC is a subsidiary of Akron, Ohio-based FirstEnergy Corp. (NYSE: FE), a registered public utility holding company.
 
 
 
 
Forward-looking Statements:
This news release includes forward-looking statements based on information currently available to management. Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. These statements typically contain, but are not limited to, the terms anticipate, potential, expect, believe, estimate and similar words. Actual results may differ materially due to the speed and nature of increased competition and deregulation in the electric utility industry, economic or weather conditions affecting future sales and margins, changes in markets for energy services, changing energy and commodity market prices, replacement power costs being higher than anticipated or inadequately hedged, the continued ability of our regulated utilities to collect transition and other charges or to recover increased transmission costs, maintenance costs being higher than anticipated, legislative and regulatory changes (including revised environmental requirements), the uncertainty of the timing and amounts of the capital expenditures (including that such amounts could be higher than anticipated) or levels of emission reductions related to the settlement agreement resolving the New Source Review litigation, adverse regulatory or legal decisions and outcomes (including, but not limited to, the revocation of necessary licenses or operating permits, fines or other enforcement actions and remedies) of governmental investigations and oversight, including by the Securities and Exchange Commission, the United States Attorneys Office, the Nuclear Regulatory Commission and the various state public utility commissions (including the final outcome of further proceedings with respect to the Ohio companies Rate Certainty Plan), as disclosed in our Securities and Exchange Commission filings, generally, and with respect to the Davis-Besse Nuclear Power Station outage and heightened scrutiny at the Perry Nuclear Power Plant in particular, the continuing availability and operation of generating units, the ability of our generating units to continue to operate at or near full capacity, our inability to accomplish or realize anticipated benefits from strategic goals (including employee workforce factors), our ability to improve electric commodity margins and to experience growth in the distribution business, our ability to access the public securities and other capital markets and the cost of such capital, the outcome, cost and other effects of present and potential legal and administrative proceedings and claims related to the August 14, 2003 regional power outage, circumstances which may lead management not to seek, or the Board of Directors not to grant, in each case in its sole discretion, authority for the implementation of a share repurchase program in the future, the risks and other factors discussed from time to time in our Securities and Exchange Commission filings, and other similar factors. FirstEnergy expressly disclaims any current intention to update any forward-looking statements contained herein as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.

                      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
60;  
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
EXHIBIT 99.2
 
The United States Attorneys Office for the Northern District of Ohio and the Environmental Crimes Section of the Environment and Natural Resources Division of the Department of Justice (collectively the Department), on behalf of the United States of America, and the FirstEnergy Nuclear Operating Company (FENOC), pursuant to authority granted by its Board of Directors in the form of a Board Resolution (Attachment A), hereby enter into this Deferred Prosecution Agreement (the Agreement). The United States acknowledges FENOCs extensive corrective actions at Davis-Besse Nuclear Power Station (Davis-Besse), FENOCs cooperation during investigations by the Department and the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC), FENOCs pledge of continued cooperation, FENOCs acknowledgement of responsibility for the behavior of its employees, and its agreement to pay a monetary penalty.
   1.
   
  
   
FENOC admits that the Department can prove that from September 3, 2001 through November 28, 2001, FENOC employees, acting on its behalf, knowingly made false representations to the NRC in the course of attempting to persuade the NRC that Davis-Besse was safe to operate beyond December 31, 2001, as set forth in detail in the Statement of Facts attached hereto as Attachment B (the Statement of Facts).
2.
  
   
FENOC agrees to pay a monetary penalty of $28 million. A portion of this amount may be directed to a community service project, with the agreement of both parties. None of the penalty shall be tax deductible, nor shall any of it be submitted as allowable costs in a Public Utility Commission rate-making proceeding.
 
 
3.
  
   
In consideration of FENOCs entry into this Agreement and its commitment to (a) accept and acknowledge responsibility for its conduct; (b) cooperate with the United States and the NRC as set forth in Paragraph 9; (c) make the payment specified in Paragraph 2; (d) comply with Federal criminal laws; and (e) otherwise comply with all of the terms of this Agreement, the Department, absent a material breach of this Agreement, will refrain from seeking an indictment or otherwise initiating criminal prosecution of FENOC for all conduct related to the conduct described in the attached Statement of Facts.
4.
  
   
If FENOC materially breaches its obligations described herein, the Department may prosecute FENOC for any violations known to it at that time, including the conduct described in the Statement of Facts. Determination of breach shall be governed by Paragraph 12 of this Agreement.
5.
  
   
FENOC agrees that in any such prosecution the Statement of Facts shall be admissible in evidence.
6.
  
   
FENOC agrees to toll the running of the criminal statute of limitations during the term of this Agreement with respect to all conduct related to the conduct described in the Statement of Facts. FENOC expressly intends and hereby does waive its rights with respect to that period, including any right to make a claim premised in the statute of limitations. FENOC also waives any claim concerning pre-indictment delay, including but not limited to, speedy trial rights under the Sixth Amendment of the United States Constitution, Title 18 United States Code, Section 3161, Federal Rule of Criminal Procedure 48(b), and any applicable Local Rules for the period during which this Agreement is in effect.
 
-2-
7.
  
   
FENOC agrees to waive its constitutional right to presentment of an indictment to a grand jury, and to allow the United States to proceed against it by filing an Information with regard to all conduct related to the conduct described in the Statement of Facts.
8.
  
   
FENOC agrees that it shall not, through its attorneys, agents, or employees, make any statement, including in litigation, contradicting the Statement of Facts or its representations in this Agreement. Within 48 hours after receipt of notice by the Department of such contradictory statement, FENOC shall repudiate such statement in writing, both to the recipient and to the Department. FENOC consents to public release by the Department of such repudiation.
9.
  
   
FENOC has cooperated and will continue to cooperate with the United States and the NRC in all criminal and administrative investigations and proceedings related to the conduct described in the attached Statement of Facts. In any further inquiry, FENOC agrees that its continuing cooperation shall include the following:
   9.1
 
  
FENOC will completely, truthfully and promptly disclose all information in its possession related to the matters addressed in the attached Statement of Facts about which the Department and the NRC may inquire, including all information about the activities of FENOC, present employees, former employees, consultants, and agents.
   9.2
 
  
FENOC will provide the Department and NRC any information and documents of which it becomes aware that may be relevant to further criminal and administrative investigations and proceedings related to the conduct described in the Statement of Facts.
 
-3-
   9.3
 
  
FENOC agrees to waive claims of attorney work-product protection by providing copies of witness interview summaries previously disclosed to the United States for inspection in the event that the United States brings prosecutions of individuals. By producing materials pursuant to this paragraph, FENOC does not waive the attorney-client privilege or the work-product protection, or other applicable privileges as to third parties.
10.
  
   
FENOC agrees to endorse any motions filed by the United States seeking disclosure of grand jury materials to the NRC pursuant to Rule 6(e)(3)(E) for the use of administrative proceedings.
11.
  
   
The term of the Agreement shall commence on the date of execution and run through December 31, 2006.
12.
  
   
Should the Department determine that FENOC has violated this Agreement, the Department shall provide notice to FENOC of the basis for that determination and allow FENOC 30 days to demonstrate that no breach occurred, that the breach has been cured, or that the breach does not merit further action by the Department. If the Department determines that FENOC has materially breached its obligations under the terms of this Agreement, the Department may file an Information without prior judicial approval. FENOC will have no right to seek judicial action to enjoin or otherwise prevent the filing of an Information. If criminal prosecution is initiated by the Department on the basis of a claimed material breach of this Agreement, FENOC shall not be barred from moving to dismiss the action on the ground that it has not materially breached this Agreement.
 
-4-
13.
  
   
It is understood that this Agreement is binding on the Department, but specifically does not bind other Federal agencies, state or local law enforcement agencies, licensing authorities, or regulatory authorities. If requested by FENOC, the Department will bring to the attention of any such agencies the cooperation of FENOC and its compliance with its obligations under this Agreement.
14.
  
   
This Agreement sets forth all the terms of the Deferred Prosecution Agreement between FENOC and the United States. No modifications or additions to this Agreement shall be valid unless they are in writing and signed by the parties to this Agreement.
Greg White
United States Attorney
Northern District of Ohio
Christian Stickan
Assistant United States Attorney
_____________________________________
Richard Poole
Senior Trial Attorney
Environmental Crimes Section
Environment and Natural Resources Division
_____________________________________
Thomas T. Ballantine
Trial Attorney
Environmental Crimes Section
Environment and Natural Resources Division
On behalf of the United States of America
 
 
-5-
 
By:
 
_________________________________
Gary R. Leidich
President and Chief Nuclear Officer
FirstEnergy Nuclear Operating Company
76 South Main Street
Akron, OH 44308
 
_________________________________
William L. Gardner
Morgan, Lewis & Bockius
1111 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW
Washington, D.C. 20004
On behalf of FENOC
Date of Execution:
 
_________________________
Attachments:
Resolution (Attachment A)
Statement of Facts (Attachment B)
-6-
                  Attachment A
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
Resolution of the Board of Directors of FirstEnergy Nuclear Operating Company, Inc. (FENOC)
Upon motion duly made, seconded and unanimously carried by the affirmative vote of all the Directors present, the following resolutions were adopted on November 9, 2005:
WHEREAS, FENOC has been engaged in discussions with the United States Attorneys Office for the Northern District of Ohio and the Environmental Crimes Section of the Department of Justice (the United States) in connection with an investigation being conducted by the United States into activities of FENOC employees and managers who prepared responses to an inquiry by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission;
WHEREAS, the Board of Directors of FENOC has determined that it is in the best interests of FENOC to enter into the Deferred Prosecution Agreement that the Board of Directors has reviewed with counsel representing FENOC;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the Board of Directors of FENOC consents to the resolution of the discussions with the United States by entering into the Deferred Prosecution Agreement in substantially the same form as reviewed by the Board of Directors and as attached hereto as Exhibit A; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the Board of Directors of FENOC authorizes management and counsel representing FENOC to execute the Deferred Prosecution Agreement on behalf of FENOC and to take any and all other actions as may be necessary or appropriate, and to approve the forms, terms, or provisions of any agreements or other documents as may be necessary or appropriate to carry out and effectuate the purpose and intent of the foregoing.
A - 1
                  Attachment B
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
&# 160;  
   
   
   
   
   
 
In support of a deferred prosecution agreement, the FirstEnergy Nuclear Operating Company (FENOC), through its board of directors, admits that, for all times relevant to the agreement, the following facts are true:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B -1
                  Attachment B
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B -2
                  Attachment B
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
B -3
U.S. Department of Justice
Environment and Natural Resources Division
    January 13, 2006
   
   
   
   
William L. Gardner
Morgan, Lewis & Bockius
1111 Pennsylvania Ave., NW
Washington, D. C. 20004
Re: Administration of Deferred Prosecution Agreement penalty
Dear Mr. Gardner:
Paragraph number two of the Deferred Prosecution Agreement that FENOC and the Department will execute is a monetary penalty provision:
This letter describes the procedure for paying the penalty and memorializes the agreement between FENOC and the Department regarding community service projects.
We have agreed that $4,350,000 of the $28,000,000 penalty is to be directed to community service projects. Therefore, $23,650,000 should be transferred to the United States treasury upon execution of the deferred prosecution agreement, but not before January 20, 2006. The Justice Management Division of the U.S. Department of Justice has made arrangements for that payment, by wire transfer. The instructions for completing the transfer are set out in Attachment A.
The remaining $4,350,000 is to be paid to the organizations set forth in Attachment B. FENOC and the Department agree that the payments for these projects are community service by FENOC, as contemplated in the Deferred Prosecution Agreement. FENOC agrees that, whenever it makes or publishes statements concerning the projects set forth in Attachment B, it shall include a statement explaining that the payments were made pursuant to a Deferred Prosecution Agreement entered into with the Department of Justice.
Upon making the payments set forth in Attachment B, FENOC shall provide the Department with receipts for those payments. If, for whatever reason, FENOC is unable to make any of the payments set forth in Attachment B within sixty days of the execution of the Deferred Prosecution Agreement, then all unpaid amounts shall be paid to the United States treasury, by wire transfer, as set out in Attachment A.
B -4
The parties to the Deferred Prosecution Agreement agree that this letter will be attached to, and be a part of, the Deferred Prosecution Agreement and their representatives have initialed this letter to so indicate. Please do not hesitate to call me if you have any questions regarding these procedures.
Very truly yours,
Thomas T. Ballantine
Trial Attorney
Richard A. Poole _____
Thomas T. Ballantine _____
Christian H. Stickan _____
Gary R. Leidich _____
William L. Gardner _____
B -5
For Ottawa County local endeavors
:
Ottawa National Wildlife Refuge, through the affiliated not-for-profit, the Ottawa National Wildlife Refuge Association, which is chartered for support of the refuge, for wetlands preservation ($800,000) and toward the construction of a Visitors Center ($550,000).
Ottawa County Emergency Management Association, in support of communications systems upgrade and related needs, to better equip local responders ($500,000).
For Northwest Ohio Regional Initiatives:
University of Toledo Foundation, for the College of Engineering ($500,000), to be used as directed by the College of Engineering, for the purpose of developing energy efficient technologies and training engineering students in advanced technologies.
For Northern Ohio benefit
:
Cuyahoga Valley National Park ($1,000,000), to further the extension of the Towpath Trail in Cleveland from Harvard Road to the proposed Canal Basin Park in the Flats, with the funds being paid to the Cuyahoga Valley National Park and to be deposited into a restricted fund account for this purpose. The Cuyahoga Valley National Park would exercise fiduciary responsibility for the expenditure of these funds by appropriate public entities through contractual instruments including grants and/or cooperative agreements administered per federal guidelines.
Habitat for Humanity International ($1,000,000), for the benefit of Northern Ohio Chapters to build environmentally responsible U.S. EPA Energy Star certified homes.
B -6


