FILE:FE/FE-8K-20071030112411.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2.):
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
1
 
 Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On October 30, 2007, FirstEnergy Corp. issued two public announcements, which are attached as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 hereto and incorporated by reference. FirstEnergy's Press Release and Consolidated Report to the Financial Community contain non-GAAP* financial measures. Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, FirstEnergy has provided quantitative reconciliations within the Press Release and Consolidated Report to the Financial Community of the non-GAAP* financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
The Press Release and Consolidated Report to the Financial Community include normalized earnings per share, which is not calculated in accordance with GAAP because it excludes the impact of "special items." Special items reflect the impact on earnings of events that are not routine or that may be related to discontinued businesses. Management believes presenting normalized earnings calculated in this manner provides useful information to investors in evaluating the ongoing results of FirstEnergy's businesses and assists investors in comparing FirstEnergys operating performance to the operating performance of other companies in the energy sector. Management believes presenting this non-GAAP* measure provides useful information to investors in assessing FirstEnergy's normalized operating performance. FirstEnergy's management frequently references this non-GAAP* financial measure in its decision-making, using it to facilitate historical and ongoing performance comparisons as well as comparisons to the performance of peer companies.
The non-GAAP* information presented in the Press Release and Consolidated Report to the Financial Community should be considered in addition to, and not as a substitute for, the most directly comparable financial measure prepared in accordance with GAAP. Also, the non-GAAP* financial measure may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other entities.
 Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits.
*This Form 8-K contains non-GAAP financial measures. Generally, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a company's historical or future financial performance, financial position, or cash flows that either excludes or includes amounts, or is subject to adjustment that has the effect of excluding or including amounts, that are not normally excluded or included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, or GAAP.
includes forward-looking statements based on information currently available to management. Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. These statements include declarations regarding managements intents, beliefs and current expectations. These statements typically contain, but are not limited to, the terms anticipate, potential, expect, believe, estimate and similar words. Forward-looking statements involve estimates, assumptions, known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievement expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Actual results may differ materially due to the speed and nature of increased competition in the electric utility industry and legislative and regulatory changes affecting how generation rates will be determined following the expiration of existing rate plans in Ohio and Pennsylvania, economic or weather conditions affecting future sales and margins, changes in markets for energy services, changing energy and commodity market prices, replacement power costs being higher than anticipated or inadequately hedged, the continued ability of FirstEnergys regulated utilities to collect transition and other charges or to recover increased transmission costs, maintenance costs being higher than anticipated, other legislative and regulatory changes including revised environmental requirements, the uncertainty of the timing and amounts of the capital expenditures needed to, among other things, implement the Air Quality Compliance Plan (including that such amounts could be higher than anticipated) or levels of emission reductions related to the Consent Decree resolving the New Source Review litigation or other potential regulatory initiatives, adverse regulatory or legal decisions and outcomes (including, but not limited to, the revocation of necessary licenses or operating permits and oversight) by the NRC (including, but not limited to, the Demand for Information issued to FENOC on May 14, 2007) as disclosed in the registrants SEC filings, the timing and outcome of various proceedings before the  PUCO  (including,  but  not  limited  to,  the
Forward-Looking Statements:
 This Form 8-K
 
2
 
 
 
distribution rate cases and the generation supply plan filing for the Ohio Companies and the successful resolution of the issues remanded to the PUCO by the Ohio Supreme Court regarding the RSP and RCP, including the deferral of fuel costs) and the PPUC (including the resolution of the Petitions for Review filed with the Commonwealth Court of Pennsylvania with respect to the transition rate plan for Met-Ed and Penelec), the continuing availability of generating units and their the ability to operate at, or near full capacity, the ability to comply with applicable state and federal reliability standards, the inability to accomplish or realize anticipated benefits from strategic goals (including employee workforce initiatives), the ability to improve electric commodity margins and to experience growth in the distribution business, the ability to access the public securities and other capital markets and the cost of such capital, the outcome, cost and other effects of present and potential legal and administrative proceedings and claims related to the August 14, 2003 regional power outage,  the risks and other factors discussed from time to time in the registrants SEC filings, and other similar factors. The foregoing review of factors should not be construed as exhaustive. New factors emerge from time to time, and it is not possible to predict all such factors, nor assess the impact of any such factor on the registrants business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. The registrant expressly disclaims any current intention to update any forward-looking statements contained herein as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto authorized.
October 30, 2007
 
 
 
3

 
EXHIBIT 99.1
 
                                                                           
Akron, Ohio  FirstEnergy Corp. (NYSE: FE) today reported third quarter 2007 basic earnings of $1.36 ($1.34 diluted) per share of common stock on net income of $413 million and revenue of $3.6 billion.  Third quarter 2007 results include a gain of $0.04 per share from the sale of non-core assets.
 
These results compare with third quarter 2006 basic earnings per share of common stock of $1.41($1.40 diluted) on net income of $454 million, and revenue of $3.4 billion.  Third quarter 2006 results includea $0.02 per share charge related to an adjustment to deferred non-utility generation purchased power costs and a $0.01 per share net gain associated with the sale of non-core assets.
 
 
 
Our solid third quarter results reflect the continued strong execution of our strategies, which focus on enhancing our core operations and financial flexibility, said President and Chief Executive Officer Anthony J. Alexander.  As a result of our companys performance during the first nine months of the year, we are narrowing our full-year 2007 earnings guidance toward the top end of our previous range, he said.
 
Full-year 2007 non-GAAP(*) earnings guidance, excluding special items, has been revised to $4.15 to $4.25 per share, from a previous range of $4.05 to $4.25 per share.
 
 
 
For the first nine months of 2007, basic earnings per share of common stock were
$3.39 ($3.35 diluted), on net income of $1.0 billion and revenue of $9.7 billion.  This compares favorably to basic earnings per share of common stock of $2.99 ($2.97 diluted) in the first nine months of 2006, on net income of $979 million and revenue of $8.8 billion.
 
Third quarter 2007 results reflected higher purchased power costs due primarily to replacement power purchases for this summers 25-day outage at the Perry Nuclear Power Plant.  Net income also declined as a result of a distribution rate decrease in the companys Metropolitan Edison and Pennsylvania Electric operating companies.  Higher generation revenues had a positive impact on results, and earnings per share benefited from the repurchase of approximately 25 million shares of common stock since August of 2006.
 
Electric generation sales increased slightly compared to the third quarter of 2006, with a 16 percent increase in the wholesale sector offsetting a 2.1 percent decrease in retail market sales. Kilowatt-hour deliveries to customers through the companys utility distribution system decreased 0.5 percent compared to the third quarter of 2006.
 
During the first nine months of the year, the companys generation fleet posted output of 60.7 million MWH, compared to 61.9 million MWH in the 2006 time period.
 
FirstEnergys which provides highlights on company developments and financial results for the third quarter of 2007  is posted on the companys Web site  To access the report, click on .
Consolidated Report to the Financial Community 
.  
www.firstenergycorp.com/ir
Q3 2007
Consolidated Report to the Financial Community
 
The company invites investors, customers and other interested parties to listen to a live Internet Webcast of its teleconference for financial analysts at 1:00 p.m. Eastern Daylight Time today.  FirstEnergy management will present an overview of the companys financial results for the quarter, followed by a question-and-answer session.  The teleconference can be accessed on the companys Web site by selecting the link.  The Webcast will be archived on the Web site.
Q3 2007 Earnings Conference Call
 
FirstEnergy is a diversified energy company headquartered in Akron, Ohio.  Its subsidiaries and affiliates are involved in the generation, transmission and distribution of electricity, as well as energy management and other energy-related services.  Its seven electric utility operating companies comprise the nations fifth largest investor-owned electric system, based on 4.5 million customers served within a 36,100-square-mile area of Ohio, Pennsylvania and New Jersey; and its generation subsidiaries control more than 14,000 megawatts of capacity.
 
 
This news release contains non-GAAP financial measures.  Generally, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a companys historical or future financial performance, financial position, or cash flows that either excludes or includes amounts that are not normally excluded or included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP).   These non-GAAP financial measures are intended to complement, and not considered as an alternative, to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure.  Also, the non-GAAP financial measures may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other entities.
(*)
This Consolidated Report to the Financial Community includes forward-looking statements based on information currently available to management. Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. These statements include declarations regarding our, or our managements, intents, beliefs and current expectations.  These statements typically contain, but are not limited to, the terms anticipate, potential, expect, believe, estimate and similar words.  Forward-looking statements involve estimates, assumptions, known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements.  Actual results may differ materially due to the speed and nature of increased competition in the electric utility industry and legislative and regulatory changes affecting how generation rates will be determined following the expiration of existing rate plans in Ohio and Pennsylvania, economic or weather conditions affecting future sales and margins, changes in markets for energy services, changing energy and commodity market prices, replacement power costs being higher than anticipated or inadequately hedged, the continued ability of FirstEnergys regulated utilities to collect transition and other charges or to recover increased transmission costs, maintenance costs being higher than anticipated, other legislative and regulatory changes including revised environmental requirements, the uncertainty of the timing and amounts of the capital expenditures needed to, among other things, implement the Air Quality Compliance Plan (including that such amounts could be higher than anticipated) or levels of emission reductions related to the Consent Decree resolving the New Source Review litigation or other potential regulatory initiatives, adverse regulatory or legal decisions and outcomes (including, but not limited to, the revocation of necessary licenses or operating permits and oversight by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission including, but not limited to, the Demand for Information issued to FENOC on May 14, 2007) as disclosed in our SEC filings, the timing and outcome of various proceedings before the PUCO (including, but not limited to, the Distribution Rate Cases and the generation supply plan filing for the Ohio Companies and the successful resolution of the issues remanded to the PUCO by the Supreme Court of Ohio regarding the Rate Stabilization Plan and the Rate Certainty Plan, including the deferral of fuel costs) and the PPUC (including the resolution of the Petitions for Review filed with the Commonwealth Court of Pennsylvania with respect to the transition rate plan for Met-Ed and Penelec), the continuing availability of generating units and their ability to continue to operate at or near full capacity, the ability to comply with applicable state and federal reliability standards, the inability to accomplish or realize anticipated benefits from strategic goals (including employee workforce initiatives), the ability to improve electric commodity margins and to experience growth in the distribution business, the ability to access the public securities and other capital markets and the cost of such capital, the outcome, cost and other effects of present and potential legal and administrative proceedings and claims related to the August 14, 2003 regional power outage, the risks and other factors discussed from time to time in our SEC filings, and other similar factors.  The foregoing review of factors should not be construed as exhaustive.  New factors emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for us to predict all such factors, nor can we assess the impact of any such factor on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements.  We expressly disclaim any current intention to update any forward-looking statements contained herein as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
Forward-Looking Statements:  
.

Exhibit 99.2
                                                                                                                                       &# 160;                                                
Consolidated Report to the Financial Community
Third Quarter 2007
 
(Released October 30, 2007) (Unaudited)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The 2007 GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliation statements can be found on page 10 of this report and all GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliation statements are available on the Investor Information section of FirstEnergy Corp.'s Web site at .
*
www.firstenergycorp.com/ir
 
For additional information, please contact:
 
 
Consolidated Report to the Financial Community 3rd Quarter 2007                                                                                                                                                         2
 
 
 
 
                                                     
Consolidated Report
to the Financial
Community - 3rd Quarter 2007
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
3
 
 
 
Consolidated Report to the Financial Community  3rd Quarter 2007                                                                                                                                                                        4
 
 
 
Consolidated Report to the Financial Community  3rd Quarter 2007                5
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
                                                       
Consolidated Report
to the Financial
Community - 3rd Quarter 2007
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
6
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Consolidated Report to the Financial Community  3rd Quarter 2007                7
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
 
 
 
Consolidated Report to the Financial Community  3rd Quarter 2007                8
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Consolidated Report to the Financial Community  3rd Quarter 2007                9
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
Consolidated Report to the Financial Community  3rd Quarter 2007                10
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
RECENT DEVELOPMENTS
Ohio
Senate Bill 221  Energy Plan Proposal
On September 25, 2007, Ohio Governor Stricklands proposed energy plan for the State of Ohio was introduced as Senate Bill 221.  The principles of the proposed bill are similar to those outlined in the Governors Energy, Jobs, and Progress for Ohio plan announced on August 29.  The bill seeks to revise state energy policy to address electric service price regulation (market rate option or electric security plan), establish energy efficiency standards, adopt advanced energy portfolio standards (advanced energy technologies to provide 25% of standard service offer generation supply by 2025, with at least one-half coming from renewables), and create greenhouse gas emission reporting and carbon-control planning requirements.
Senate Bill 221 was referred to the Senate Energy & Public Utilities Committee, which has been conducting hearings on the bill with testimony from interested parties.  These include the Governors Energy Advisor, the Chairman of the Public Utilities Commission of Ohio (PUCO), consumer groups, and utility executives among others.  On October 4, FirstEnergy CEO Tony Alexander provided testimony to the Committee, citing several concerns with the current version of the bill, including its lack of context and clarity in establishing generation prices.  He recommended that the PUCO be provided clear statutory authority to negotiate rate plans and, in the event that negotiations do not result in rate plan agreements, that a competitive bid process be used to establish generation prices for customers who do not choose alternative suppliers.  He also proposed that the PUCOs statutory authority include the flexibility to address recovery for societal programs such as energy efficiency, demand response, renewable power, and infrastructure improvements.  Several proposed amendments to the bill have been submitted, including those from Ohio's investor-owned electric utilities.  A substitute version of the bill, which incorporated certain of the proposed amendments, was introduced into the Senate Energy & Public Utilities Committee on October 25.
Ohio
Competitive Generation Supply Plan Filing
On August 16, 2007, the PUCO held a technical conference for interested parties to gain a better understanding of the competitive generation supply plan filed with the PUCO by FirstEnergy subsidiaries Ohio Edison Company (OE), The Cleveland Electric Illuminating Company (CEI), and The Toledo Edison Company (TE) (collectively Ohio Companies) on July 10.  The proposal seeks approval to conduct a competitive bidding process to provide generation service, beginning January 1, 2009, to customers who choose not to purchase electricity from an alternative supplier.  Intervening parties filed their initial comments on the proposal on September 5, while the PUCO Staff filed its comments on September 21.  Parties then filed reply comments on October 12.  The proposal is pending before the PUCO.
Ohio
Supreme Court Remand on Rate Certainty Plan
On August 29, 2007, the Supreme Court of Ohio upheld rulings by the PUCO approving several provisions of the Ohio Companies Rate Certainty Plan.  However, the Court remanded the portion of the order authorizing the Ohio Companies to collect deferred fuel costs through distribution rates back to the PUCO for further consideration.  Under the Courts interpretation, recovery of generation service costs through distribution rates would be unlawful.  The Court didnt dispute the Commissions authority to allow recovery of the deferred fuel costs, just the recovery mechanism.  The PUCOs order authorized the Ohio Companies to defer increased fuel costs incurred from January 1, 2006, through December 31, 2008, including interest on the deferred balances, and to recover these deferred costs over a 25-year period beginning in 2009.  On September 7, 2007, the Ohio Companies filed a motion for reconsideration with the Court to contest its interpretation.  The Court has not yet issued an order.  Separately, on September 10, the Ohio Companies filed an application on remand with the PUCO proposing that the increased fuel costs be recovered via two generation-related fuel cost recovery riders during the period of October 2007 through December 2008.  This matter is pending before the PUCO.
Ohio Companies Green Option for Customers Update
On August 15, 2007, the PUCO approved a stipulation that creates a green pricing option for FirstEnergys Ohio Companies customers and resolves the remand from the Supreme Court of Ohio related to the Rate Stabilization Plan.  The stipulation was filed on May 29 by FirstEnergys Ohio Companies, the PUCO Staff, and the Office of the Ohio Consumers Counsel.  The Green Resource Program enables customers to support the development of alternative energy resources through voluntary purchases of Renewable Energy Certificates (RECs).  The Ohio Companies acquired the right to purchase the RECs on behalf of participating customers through a PUCO-monitored competitive process.
 
 
                                          
Consolidated Report to the Financial Community 3 Quarter 2007                                                                                                                                                                       ;                    11
rd
 
 
Penn Power Default Service Plan
Update
On September 28, 2007, a Joint Petition for Settlement was filed with the Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission (PPUC) for approval of Pennsylvania Power Companys (Penn Powers) Interim Default Service Supply Plan for the three-year period covering June 1, 2008, through May 31, 2011.  For customers who choose not to shop, the Plan provides for Penn Power to obtain market-based generation supply via a Request for Proposal (RFP) by rate class for residential and commercial customers, with industrial customers being supplied through short-term markets.  The settlement agreement resolves all issues in the proceeding, except those regarding incremental uncollectible accounts expense, and is either supported, or not opposed, by all parties.  On September 11, a PPUC hearing was held on the uncollectible expense issue.   An Administrative Law Judge recommended decision is expected shortly with a PPUC Order expected on or about November 29, 2007.
Met-Ed and
Penelec Commonwealth Court
Appeals Update
On September 21 and October 5, 2007, response and reply briefs, respectively, were filed by the parties in the appeal of the PPUCs January 2007 transition rate plan order to the Pennsylvania Commonwealth Court.  Metropolitan Edison Company (Met-Ed) and Pennsylvania Electric Company (Penelec) have appealed the PPUCs decision on the denial of generation rate relief and on a consolidated income tax adjustment related to cost of capital, while other parties appealed the PPUCs decision on transmission rate relief.  Oral arguments are expected to take place in late 2007 or early 2008.
Penelec Debt Offering
On August 30, 2007, Penelec issued $300 million of 6.05% Senior Unsecured Notes due 2017.  Proceeds from the transaction were used to repay short-term borrowings and to repurchase Penelec common stock from FirstEnergy Corp.
Transfer of Pollution Control Revenue Bonds
On October 4, 2007, FirstEnergy Solutions Corp.s generation company subsidiaries (GenCos) closed on the issuance of $427 million of pollution control revenue bonds (PCRBs).  Proceeds from the issuance will be used to redeem, during the fourth quarter, an equal amount of outstanding PCRBs originally issued on behalf of the Ohio Companies.  This transaction brings the total amount of PCRBs transferred from the Ohio Companies and Penn Power to the GenCos to approximately $1.9 billion, with approximately $265 million remaining to be transferred.  The transfer of these PCRBs supports the intra-system generation asset transfer that was completed in 2005.
Nuclear Update
On August 21, 2007, FirstEnergy Nuclear Operating Company (FENOC) announced plans to expand used nuclear fuel storage capacity at the Perry Nuclear Power Plant.  The plan calls for installing above-ground, airtight steel and concrete cylindrical canisters, cooled by natural air circulation, to store used fuel assemblies.  Initially, six canisters will be installed, with the capability to add up to 74 canisters as needed.  Construction of the new fuel storage system, which is expected to cost approximately $30 million, is scheduled to begin in the spring of 2008, with completion planned for 2010.
On October 24, the 911-megawatt Beaver Valley Unit 1 returned to service following completion of its regularly scheduled refueling outage that began on September 24.
In late August, FENOC filed an application with the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) seeking renewal of the operating licenses for Beaver Valley Units 1 & 2 for an additional 20 years, which would extend the operating licenses to January 29, 2036, for Unit 1; and May 27, 2047, for Unit 2.  The NRC accepted the application for review on October 24.
Economic Development Award
For the fourth time in the last five years, magazine has selected FirstEnergy as one of the top utilities in the country for helping to promote economic development in its service area.  The award is based upon economic development in four categories in 2006  capital investment, job creation, capital investment per capita, and jobs per 10,000 in population  and gauges the ability of utility companies to help foster corporate investment in their service areas.  FirstEnergys work with state and local development agencies helped attract more than $1.6 billion in capital investment and helped create nearly 11,500 new jobs throughout Ohio, Pennsylvania and New Jersey in 2006.
Site Selection
Consolidated Report to the Financial Community 3 Quarter 2007                                                                                                                                                                       ;                    12
rd
This Consolidated Report to the Financial Community includes forward-looking statements based on information currently available to management. Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. These statements include declarations regarding our, or our managements, intents, beliefs and current expectations.  These statements typically contain, but are not limited to, the terms anticipate, potential, expect, believe, estimate and similar words.   Forward-looking statements involve estimates, assumptions, known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievement expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements.  Actual results may differ materially due to the speed and nature of increased competition in the electric utility industry and legislative and regulatory changes affecting how generation rates will be determined following the expiration of existing rate plans in Ohio and Pennsylvania, economic or weather conditions affecting future sales and margins, changes in markets for energy services, changing energy and commodity market prices, replacement power costs being higher than anticipated or inadequately hedged, the continued ability of FirstEnergys regulated utilities to collect transition and other charges or to recover increased transmission costs, maintenance costs being higher than anticipated, other legislative and regulatory changes including revised environmental requirements, the uncertainty of the timing and amounts of the capital expenditures needed to, among other things, implement the Air Quality Compliance Plan (including that such amounts could be higher than anticipated) or levels of emission reductions related to the Consent Decree resolving the New Source Review litigation or other potential regulatory initiatives, adverse regulatory or legal decisions and outcomes (including, but not limited to, the revocation of necessary licenses or operating permits and oversight by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission including, but not limited to, the Demand for Information issued to FENOC on May 14, 2007) as disclosed in our SEC filings, the timing and outcome of various proceedings before the PUCO (including, but not limited to, the Distribution Rate Cases and the generation supply plan filing for the Ohio Companies and the successful resolution of the issues remanded to the PUCO by the Supreme Court of Ohio regarding the Rate Stabilization Plan and the Rate Certainty Plan, including the deferral of fuel costs) and the PPUC (including the resolution of the Petitions for Review filed with the Commonwealth Court of Pennsylvania with respect to the transition rate plan for Met-Ed and Penelec), the continuing availability of generating units and their ability to continue to operate at or near full capacity, the ability to comply with applicable state and federal reliability standards, the inability to accomplish or realize anticipated benefits from strategic goals (including employee workforce initiatives), the ability to improve electric commodity margins and to experience growth in the distribution business, the ability to access the public securities and other capital markets and the cost of such capital, the outcome, cost and other effects of present and potential legal and administrative proceedings and claims related to the August 14, 2003 regional power outage, the risks and other factors discussed from time to time in our SEC filings, and other similar factors.  The foregoing review of factors should not be construed as exhaustive.  New factors emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for us to predict all such factors, nor can we assess the impact of any such factor on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements.  We expressly disclaim any current intention to update any forward-looking statements contained herein as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
Forward-Looking Statements:  
Consolidated Report to the Financial Community 3 Quarter 2007                                                                                                                                                                       ;                    13
rd


