FILE:FE/FE-8K-20070807111145.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2.):
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On August 7, 2007, FirstEnergy Corp. issued two public announcements, which are attached as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 hereto and incorporated by reference. FirstEnergy's Consolidated Report to the Financial Community contains a non-GAAP* financial measure. Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, FirstEnergy has provided a quantitative reconciliation within the Consolidated Report to the Financial Community of the non-GAAP* financial measure to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure.
The Consolidated Report to the Financial Community includes normalized earnings per share, which is not calculated in accordance with GAAP because it excludes the impact of "special items." Special items reflect the impact on earnings of events that are not routine or that may be related to discontinued businesses. Management believes presenting normalized earnings calculated in this manner provides useful information to investors in evaluating the ongoing results of FirstEnergy's businesses and assists investors in comparing the company's operating performance to the operating performance of other companies in the energy sector. Management believes presenting this non-GAAP* measure provides useful information to investors in assessing FirstEnergy's normalized operating performance. FirstEnergy's management frequently references this non-GAAP* financial measure in its decision-making, using it to facilitate historical and ongoing performance comparisons as well as comparisons to the performance of peer companies.
The non-GAAP* information presented in the Consolidated Report to the Financial Community should be considered in addition to, and not as a substitute for, the most directly comparable financial measure prepared in accordance with GAAP. Also, the non-GAAP* financial measure may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other entities.
 Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits.
 
*This Form 8-K contains a non-GAAP financial measure. Generally, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a company's historical or future financial performance, financial position, or cash flows that either excludes or includes amounts, or is subject to adjustment that has the effect of excluding or including amounts, that are not normally excluded or included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, or GAAP.
 This Form 8-K includes forward-looking statements based on information currently available to management. Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. These statements typically contain, but are not limited to, the terms anticipate, potential, expect, believe, estimate and similar words. Actual results may differ materially due to the speed and nature of increased competition and deregulation in the electric utility industry, economic or weather conditions affecting future sales and margins, changes in markets for energy services, changing energy and commodity market prices, replacement power costs being higher than anticipated or inadequately hedged, the continued ability of FirstEnergys regulated utilities to collect transition and other charges or to recover increased transmission costs, maintenance costs being higher than anticipated, legislative and regulatory changes (including revised environmental requirements), and the legal and regulatory changes resulting from the implementation of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (including, but not limited to, the repeal of the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935), the uncertainty of the timing and amounts of the capital expenditures needed to, among other things, implement the Air Quality Compliance Plan (including that such amounts could be higher than anticipated) or levels of emission reductions related to the Consent Decree resolving the New Source Review litigation, adverse regulatory or legal decisions and outcomes (including, but not limited to, the revocation of necessary licenses or operating permits and oversight) by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (including, but not limited to, the Demand for Information issued to FENOC on May 14, 2007) as disclosed in FirstEnergys SEC filings, the timing and outcome of various proceedings before the Public Utilities Commission of Ohio (including, but not limited to, the distribution rate cases and the generation supply plan filing for the Ohio Companies and the successful resolution of the issues remanded to the PUCO by the Ohio Supreme Court regarding the Rate Stabilization Plan) and the Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission (including Penns default service plan filing), the resolution of the Petitions for Review filed with the Commonwealth Court of Pennsylvania with respect to the transition rate plan filing for Met-Ed and Penelec, the continuing availability and operation of generating units, the ability of generating units to continue to operate at, or near full capacity, the inability to accomplish or realize anticipated benefits from strategic goals (including employee workforce initiatives), the anticipated benefits from voluntary pension plan contributions, the ability to improve electric commodity margins and to experience growth in the distribution business, the ability to access the public securities and other capital markets and the cost of such capital, the outcome, cost and other effects of present and potential legal and administrative proceedings and claims related to the August 14, 2003 regional power outage, any final adjustment in the purchase price per share under the accelerated share repurchase program announced March 2, 2007, the risks and other factors discussed from time to time in the registrants SEC filings, and other similar factors.  Also, a security rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities, and it may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time and each such rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. The registrant expressly disclaims any current intention to update any forward-looking statements contained herein as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
Forward-Looking Statements:
 
  
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
August 7, 2007
 
 
 
  

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
                                                                               
                                                                
Akron, Ohio - FirstEnergy Corp. (NYSE: FE) today reported second quarter 2007 basic earnings per share of common stock of $1.11 ($1.10 diluted) on net income of $338 million and revenue of $3.1 billion.  This compares with second quarter 2006 basic earnings per share of common stock of $0.92 ($0.91 diluted) on net income of $304 million and revenue of $2.8 billion.
 
Second quarter 2007 results reflect increased sales margins driven by higher electric sales revenue.  Per share earnings were further enhanced by reduced shares outstanding from the repurchase of approximately 25 million shares of common stock since the second quarter of 2006.  Earnings during the 2007 quarter were reduced by an after-tax charge of $0.02 per common share related to the impairment of securities held in trust for future nuclear decommissioning activities.
 
We continue to execute our plan for achieving our operating and financial goals, which is key to meeting the expectations of our shareholders and customers, said President and Chief Executive Officer Anthony J. Alexander.  Our second quarter results demonstrate our commitment to continuous improvement throughout the organization.
 
The companys total electric generation megawatt-hour (MWH) sales increased
2.9 percent in the second quarter of 2007 compared to the 2006 period, with electricity sales to the retail sector increasing 4.5 percent, and sales to the wholesale sector decreasing 3.1 percent.  Kilowatt-hour deliveries to customers through the companys utility distribution systems increased by 4.4 percent in the quarter.  The increase in deliveries was driven by higher weather-related use from residential and commercial customers, partially offset by slightly reduced deliveries to industrial customers.
 
FirstEnergys generating fleet set a record second quarter output of 20.4 million MWH,an increase of 0.1 million MWH over last years second quarter.  The companys increase in generation capacity in the past year, as well as record quarterly output by the fossil generation fleet, contributed to this performance.
 
 
 
 
 
For the first six months of 2007 net income was $628 million, or $2.03 per basic share of common stock ($2.01 diluted), with revenue of $6.1 billion.  This compares with 2006 first-half net income of $525 million, or $1.59 per basic share of common stock ($1.58 diluted), and revenue of $5.5 billion.
 
    FirstEnergys which provides highlights of company developments and financial results for the second quarter of 2007 
Consolidated Report to the Financial Community 
is posted on the companys Web site  To access the report, click on .
www.firstenergycorp.com/i
r
.  
2Q 2007
Consolidated Report to the Financial Community
 
The company invites investors, customers and other interested parties to listen to a live Internet Webcast of its teleconference for financial analysts at 1:00 p.m. Eastern Daylight Time today.  FirstEnergy management will present an overview of the companys financial results for the quarter, followed by a question-and-answer session.  The teleconference can be accessed on the companys Web site by selecting the link. The Webcast will be archived on the Web site.
Q2 2007 Earnings Conference
Call
 
    FirstEnergy is a diversified energy company headquartered in Akron, Ohio.  Its subsidiaries and affiliates are involved in the generation, transmission and distribution of electricity, as well as energy management and other energy-related services.  Its seven electric utility operating companies comprise the nations fifth largest investor-owned electric system, based on 4.5 million customers served within a 36,100-square-mile area of Ohio, Pennsylvania and New Jersey; and its generation subsidiaries control more than 14,000 megawatts of capacity.
This news release includes forward-looking statements based on information currently available to management. Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. These statements typically contain, but are not limited to, the terms anticipate, potential, expect, believe, estimate and similar words. Actual results may differ materially due to the speed and nature of increased competition and deregulation in the electric utility industry, economic or weather conditions affecting future sales and margins, changes in markets for energy services, changing energy and commodity market prices, replacement power costs being higher than anticipated or inadequately hedged, the continued ability of FirstEnergys regulated utilities to collect transition and other charges or to recover increased transmission costs, maintenance costs being higher than anticipated, legislative and regulatory changes (including revised environmental requirements), and the legal and regulatory changes resulting from the implementation of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (including, but not limited to, the repeal of the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935), the uncertainty of the timing and amounts of the capital expenditures needed to, among other things, implement the Air Quality Compliance Plan (including that such amounts could be higher than anticipated) or levels of emission reductions related to the Consent Decree resolving the New Source Review litigation, adverse regulatory or legal decisions and outcomes (including, but not limited to, the revocation of necessary licenses or operating permits and oversight) by the NRC (including, but not limited to, the Demand For Information issued to FENOC on May 14, 2007) and the various state public utility commissions as disclosed in our SEC filings, the timing and outcome of various proceedings before the PUCO (including, but not limited to, the Distribution Rate Cases and the generation supply plan filing for the Ohio Companies and the successful resolution of the issues remanded to the
Forward-Looking Statements: 
 
 
 
 
PUCO by the Ohio Supreme Court regarding the Rate Stabilization Plan) and the PPUC (including the Pennsylvania Power Company Default Service Plan filing), the resolution of the Petitions for Review filed with the Commonwealth Court of Pennsylvania with respect to the transition rate plan for Met-Ed and Penelec, the continuing availability and operation of generating units, the ability of generating units to continue to operate at, or near full capacity, the inability to accomplish or realize anticipated benefits from strategic goals (including employee workforce initiatives), the anticipated benefits from voluntary pension plan contributions, the ability to improve electric commodity margins and to experience growth in the distribution business, the ability to access the public securities and other capital markets and the cost of such capital, the outcome, cost and other effects of present and potential legal and administrative proceedings and claims related to the August 14, 2003 regional power outage, any final adjustment in the purchase price per share under the accelerated share repurchase program announced March 2, 2007, the risks and other factors discussed from time to time in our SEC filings, and other similar factors.  We expressly disclaim any current intention to update any forward-looking statements contained herein as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
 

 
EXHIBIT 99.2
Consolidated Report to the Financial Community
Second Quarter 2007
(Released August 7, 2007) (Unaudited)
 
 
 
 
 
*
The 2007 GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliation statements can be found on page 10 of this report and all GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliation statements are available on the Investor Information section of FirstEnergy Corp.'s Web site at
www.firstenergycorp.com/ir
.
 
 
For additional information, please contact:
 
 
Consolidated Report to the Financial Community 2nd Quarter 2007                                                                                                                                                                         ;                     2
 
 
 
 
Consolidated Report to the Financial Community 2nd Quarter 2007                                                                                                                                                                        60;                     3
 
 
 
Consolidated Report to the Financial Community 2nd Quarter 2007                                                                                                                                                                        60;                     4
 
 
 
 
Consolidated Report to the Financial Community 2nd Quarter 2007                                                                                                                                                                         ;                     5
 
 
 
 
Consolidated Report to the Financial Community 2nd Quarter 2007                                                                                                                                                                         ;                     6
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Consolidated Report to the Financial Community  2nd Quarter                                                                                                                                                                                                      7
 
 
 
 
 
 
Consolidated Report to the Financial Community  2nd Quarter 2007                                                                                                                                                                        60;                    8
 
 
 
 
 
 
Consolidated Report to the Financial Community  2nd Quarter 2007                                                                                                                                                                        60;                    9
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Consolidated Report to the Financial Community - 2nd Quarter 2007                                                                                                                                                                        60;                     10
 
RECENT DEVELOPMENTS
Record Generation Output
FirstEnergy set a new second quarter generation output record of 20.4 million megawatt-hours, which represented a 0.4% increase over the prior record established in the second quarter of 2006.  The generation record was primarily attributable to performance of the fossil generation fleet, which established its best quarterly output ever.
Sale and Leaseback of Bruce Mansfield Unit 1
On July 13, 2007, FirstEnergy Generation Corp. (Genco) completed a $1.3 billion sale and leaseback transaction for its 779 MW portion of Unit 1 of the Bruce Mansfield Plant.  The applicable lease agreements provide for an approximate 33-year lease of the unit.  FirstEnergy used the net after-tax proceeds of approximately $1.2 billion, to repay short-term debt that was used to fund the March 2007 $900 million accelerated share repurchase program and the January 2007 $300 million pension contribution.  Genco continues to operate the plant and is entitled to its full output.
Ohio
Distribution Rate Case Filing
On June 7, 2007, FirstEnergy subsidiaries Ohio Edison (OE), The Cleveland Electric Illuminating Company (CEI), and Toledo Edison (TE) (collectively Ohio Companies) filed their base distribution rate increase request and supporting testimony with the Public Utilities Commission of Ohio (PUCO).  On August 6, the Ohio Companies provided an Update Filing with three months of actual results (March through May 2007) for the test year and actual asset and liability balances as of May 31, 2007.  The requested increase in annualized distribution revenues totals $332 million to recover expenses related to distribution operations and the costs deferred under previously approved rate plans.  The new rates would be effective January 1, 2009, for OE and TE customers, and are expected to be effective in May 2009 for CEI customers.  Concurrent with the effective dates, the Ohio Companies will reduce or eliminate their Regulatory Transition Charges (RTC), resulting in an aggregate net reduction of $262 million on the regulated portion of customers bills.  It is estimated the PUCO Staff will issue its report in the case in the fourth quarter of 2007 with evidentiary hearings to follow in late 2007.  The PUCO Order is expected in March 2008.
Ohio
Competitive Generation Supply Plan Filing
On July 10, 2007, the Ohio Companies filed an application with the PUCO requesting approval of a comprehensive supply plan for providing generation service, beginning January 1, 2009, to customers who choose not to purchase electricity from an alternative supplier.  The proposed competitive bidding process would average the results of multiple bidding sessions conducted at different times during the year beginning in 2008.  The Ohio Companies offered two alternatives for structuring the bids, either by customer class or a slice-of-system approach that combines all customer classes into tranches that represent a portion of the total customer load.  The proposal provides the PUCO with an option to phase in generation price increases for residential tariff groups that would experience a change in the average total price of 15 percent or more.  The Ohio Companies requested that the PUCO issue an order by November 1, 2007, to provide sufficient time to conduct the bidding process.  The PUCO has scheduled a technical conference to be held on August 16, 2007 to allow interested parties an opportunity to better understand the filing.
Ohio Companies Green Option for Customers
On May 29, 2007, OE, CEI and TE filed a proposed program with the PUCO that would provide customers with the opportunity to purchase Renewable Energy Certificates (RECs) to support alternative energy.  The program was designed in collaboration with the PUCO Staff and the Office of the Ohio Consumers Counsel.  The proposal is currently pending before the PUCO.
Pennsylvania Power Company Default Service Plan
Update
On May 2, 2007, Pennsylvania Power Company made a filing with the Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission (PPUC) proposing a process to procure the power supply needed for default service customers during the period of June 1, 2008 through May 31, 2011. The hearings are scheduled for September 10-11, 2007, with an Administrative Law Judge (ALJ) recommended decision expected by October 25, 2007.  A PPUC Order is expected on or about November 29, 2007.
Consolidated Report to the Financial Community - 2nd Quarter 2007                                                                                                                                                                        60;                     11
 
Met-Ed and
Penelec
Commonwealth Court
Appeals
On June 19, 2007, initial briefs were filed by all parties in the appeal of the PPUCs January 2007 transition rate plan order to the Pennsylvania Commonwealth Court.  Responsive briefs are due August 20, 2007, with reply briefs due September 4, 2007.  Metropolitan Edison Company (Met-Ed) and Pennsylvania Electric Company (Penelec) appealed the PPUCs decision on the denial of generation rate relief and on a consolidated income tax adjustment related to cost of capital, while other parties appealed the PPUCs decision on transmission rate relief.  Oral arguments are expected to take place in late 2007 or early 2008.
Met-Ed and Penelec NUG Accounting Case Update
On May 3, 2007, the ALJ issued a recommended decision denying Met-Eds and Penelecs request to modify their Non-Utility Generation (NUG) stranded cost accounting methodology.  The companies filed exceptions to the initial decision on May 23, 2007.  It is not known when the PPUC may issue a final decision in this matter.
Nuclear Update
On May 14, 2007, the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) issued a Demand for Information related to recent reports prepared at the request of FirstEnergy Nuclear Operating Company (FENOC) by expert witnesses for arbitration of an insurance claim for replacing the damaged reactor head at the Davis-Besse Plant in 2002.  FENOC filed a response with the NRC on June 13, and supplemented that response on July 16, 2007, after participating in an NRC public meeting June 27, 2007, to discuss the company's initial response.
FirstEnergys Perry Plant completed its regularly scheduled refueling outage on May 13, 2007. Major work activities performed on the 1,258 megawatt (MW) facility included replacing approximately one-third of the fuel assemblies in the reactor and two of the three low-pressure turbine rotors in the main generator.  On June 29, 2007, the Perry Plant began an outage to replace a 30-ton motor in the reactor recirculation system.  In addition to motor replacement, routine and preventive maintenance and several system inspections were performed to assure continued safe and reliable operation of the plant.  On July 24, the Perry Plant exited its outage and returned to service.
Environmental Update
On May 30, 2007, FirstEnergy announced that Genco plans to install an Electro-Catalytic Oxidation (ECO) system on units 4 and 5 of the R. E. Burger Plant.  The two units produce 312 MW combined.  The original plans called for installation of an ECO system on Unit 4 of the Bay Shore Plant (215 MW).  The decision to install ECO at the Burger Plant will result in additional scrubbed megawatts and better fits the coal-purchasing strategy for both plants.  Design engineering for the new Burger Plant ECO system will begin later this year with anticipated start-up during the first quarter of 2011.  
Jersey
Central Power & Light Debt Offering
On May 21, 2007, Jersey Central Power & Light (JCP&L) issued $550 million of senior unsecured notes.  The offering was in two tranches, consisting of $250 million of 5.65% senior notes due 2017, and $300 million of 6.15% senior notes due 2037.  Proceeds from the transaction were used to redeem all outstanding JCP&L first mortgage bonds, repay short-term debt and repurchase common stock from FirstEnergy Corp.
This Consolidated Report to the Financial Community includes forward-looking statements based on information currently available to management. Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. These statements typically contain, but are not limited to, the terms anticipate, potential, expect, believe, estimate and similar words. Actual results may differ materially due to the speed and nature of increased competition and deregulation in the electric utility industry, economic or weather conditions affecting future sales and margins, changes in markets for energy services, changing energy and commodity market prices, replacement power costs being higher than anticipated or inadequately hedged, the continued ability of FirstEnergys regulated utilities to collect transition and other charges or to recover increased transmission costs, maintenance costs being higher than anticipated, legislative and regulatory changes (including revised environmental requirements), and the legal and regulatory changes resulting from the implementation of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (including, but not limited to, the repeal of the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935), the uncertainty of the timing and amounts of the capital expenditures needed to, among other things, implement the Air Quality Compliance Plan (including that such amounts could be higher than anticipated) or levels of emission reductions related to the Consent Decree resolving the New Source Review litigation, adverse regulatory or legal decisions and outcomes (including, but not limited to, the revocation of necessary licenses or operating permits and oversight) by the NRC (including, but not limited to, the Demand For Information issued to FENOC on May 14, 2007) and the various state public utility commissions as disclosed in our SEC filings, the timing and outcome of various proceedings before the PUCO (including, but not limited to, the Distribution Rate Cases and the generation supply plan filing for the Ohio Companies and the successful resolution of the issues remanded to the PUCO by the Ohio Supreme Court regarding the Rate Stabilization Plan) and the PPUC (including the Pennsylvania Power Company Default Service Plan filing), the resolution of the Petitions for Review filed with the Commonwealth Court of Pennsylvania with respect to the transition rate plan for Met-Ed and Penelec, the continuing availability and operation of generating units, the ability of generating units to continue to operate at, or near full capacity, the inability to accomplish or realize anticipated benefits from strategic goals (including employee workforce initiatives), the anticipated benefits from voluntary pension plan contributions, the ability to improve electric commodity margins and to experience growth in the distribution business, the ability to access the public securities and other capital markets and the cost of such capital, the outcome, cost and other effects of present and potential legal and administrative proceedings and claims related to the August 14, 2003 regional power outage, any final adjustment in the purchase price per share under the accelerated share repurchase program announced March 2, 2007, the risks and other factors discussed from time to time in our SEC filings, and other similar factors.  We expressly disclaim any current intention to update any forward-looking statements contained herein as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
Forward-Looking Statements:  
 
 
Consolidated Report to the Financial Community - 2nd Quarter 2007                                                                                                                                                                        60;                     12
 


