FILE:FE/FE-8K-20070523165503.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2.):
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
FirstEnergy Solutions Corp. (FES) is a wholly owned subsidiary of FirstEnergy Corp. FES provides energy-related products and services primarily in Ohio, Pennsylvania, Michigan and Maryland, and through its subsidiaries, FirstEnergy Generation Corp. and FirstEnergy Nuclear Generation Corp., owns and operates FirstEnergy's non-nuclear generating facilities and owns FirstEnergy's nuclear generating facilities, respectively. FirstEnergy Nuclear Operating Company, a wholly owned subsidiary of FirstEnergy, operates and maintains the nuclear generating facilities.
In anticipation of possible future public dissemination, FirstEnergy is furnishing FES' unaudited financial statements for the three months ended March 31, 2007 and 2006 as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
 
 Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
: This Form 8-K includes forward-looking statements based on information currently available to management. Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. These statements typically contain, but are not limited to, the terms anticipate, potential, expect, believe, estimate and similar words. Actual results may differ materially due to the speed and nature of increased competition and deregulation in the electric utility industry, economic or weather conditions affecting future sales and margins, changes in markets for energy services, changing energy and commodity market prices, replacement power costs being higher than anticipated or inadequately hedged, the continued ability of FirstEnergys regulated utilities to collect transition and other charges or to recover increased transmission costs, maintenance costs being higher than anticipated, legislative and regulatory changes (including revised environmental requirements), and the legal and regulatory changes resulting from the implementation of the EPACT (including, but not limited to, the repeal of the PUHCA), the uncertainty of the timing and amounts of the capital expenditures needed to, among other things, implement the Air Quality Compliance Plan (including that such amounts could be higher than anticipated) or levels of emission reductions related to the Consent Decree resolving the New Source Review litigation, adverse regulatory or legal decisions and outcomes (including, but not limited to, the revocation of necessary licenses or operating permits and oversight) by the NRC (including, but not limited to, the Demand for Information issued to FENOC on May 14, 2007) and the various state public utility commissions as disclosed in FirstEnergys SEC filings, the timing and outcome of various proceedings before the PUCO (including, but not limited to, the distribution rate cases for the Ohio Companies and the successful resolution of the issues remanded to the PUCO by the Ohio Supreme Court regarding the Rate Stabilization Plan) and the PPUC (including the transition rate plan filings for Met-Ed and Penelec and Penns default service plan filing), the continuing availability and operation of generating units, the ability of generating units to continue to operate at, or near full capacity, the inability to accomplish or realize anticipated benefits from strategic goals (including employee workforce initiatives), the anticipated benefits from voluntary pension plan contributions, the ability to improve electric commodity margins and to experience growth in the distribution business, the ability to access the public securities and other capital markets and the cost of such capital, the outcome, cost and other effects of present and potential legal and administrative proceedings and claims related to the August 14, 2003 regional power outage, the successful structuring and completion of a potential sale and leaseback transaction for Bruce Mansfield Unit 1 currently under consideration by management, any purchase price adjustment under the accelerated share repurchase program announced March 2, 2007, the risks and other factors discussed from time to time in FirstEnergys SEC filings, and other similar factors.  FirstEnergy expressly disclaims any current intention to update any forward-looking statements contained herein as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
Forward-Looking Statements
 
2
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
May 23, 2007
 
3
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
 
FirstEnergy Solutions Corp. (FES) is a wholly owned subsidiary of FirstEnergy Corp. FES provides energy-related products and services primarily in Ohio, Pennsylvania, Michigan and Maryland, and through its subsidiaries, FirstEnergy Generation Corp. and FirstEnergy Nuclear Generation Corp., owns and operates FirstEnergys non-nuclear generation facilities and owns FirstEnergys nuclear generation facilities, respectively. FirstEnergy Nuclear Operating Company continues to operate and maintain the nuclear generating facilities.
GLOSSARY OF TERMS
The following abbreviations and acronyms are used in this report to identify FirstEnergy Corp. and its current and former subsidiaries:
i
 
 
ii
This discussion includes forward-looking statements based on information currently available to management. Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. These statements typically contain, but are not limited to, the terms anticipate, potential, expect, believe, estimate and similar words. Actual results may differ materially due to the speed and nature of increased competition and deregulation in the electric utility industry, economic or weather conditions affecting future sales and margins, changes in markets for energy services, changing energy and commodity market prices, replacement power costs being higher than anticipated or inadequately hedged, maintenance costs being higher than anticipated, legislative and regulatory changes (including revised environmental requirements), and the legal and regulatory changes resulting from the implementation of the EPACT (including, but not limited to, the repeal of the PUHCA), the uncertainty of the timing and amounts of the capital expenditures needed to, among other things, implement the Air Quality Compliance Plan (including that such amounts could be higher than anticipated) or levels of emission reductions related to the Consent Decree resolving the New Source Review litigation, adverse regulatory or legal decisions and outcomes (including, but not limited to, the revocation of necessary licenses or operating permits and oversight) by the NRC (including, but not limited to, the Demand for Information issued to FENOC on May 14, 2007) as disclosed in FirstEnergys SEC filings, the continuing availability and operation of generating units, the ability of our generating units to continue to operate at, or near full capacity, the inability to accomplish or realize anticipated benefits from strategic goals (including employee workforce initiatives), the anticipated benefits from voluntary pension plan contributions, the ability to improve electric commodity margins, the ability to access the public securities and other capital markets and the cost of such capital, the successful structuring and completion of a potential sale and leaseback transaction for Bruce Mansfield Unit 1 currently under consideration by management, the risks and other factors discussed from time to time in FirstEnergys SEC filings, and other similar factors. Also, a security rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities, and it may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time and each such rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. We expressly disclaim any current intention to update any forward-looking statements contained herein as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
Forward-Looking Statements:
FES was organized under the laws of the State of Ohio in 1997 as a wholly owned subsidiary of FirstEnergy. FES provides energy-related products and services to wholesale and retail customers in the MISO and PJM markets. FES also owns and operates, through its subsidiary, FGCO, FirstEnergys fossil and hydroelectric generating facilities and owns, through its subsidiary, NGC, FirstEnergys nuclear generating facilities. FENOC, a separate subsidiary of FirstEnergy, operates and maintains NGCs nuclear generating facilities. In addition to the generation output of the facilities owned by FGCO and NGC, FES purchases the output relating to leasehold interests of OE, CEI and TE in certain of those facilities that are subject to sale and leaseback arrangements with non-affiliates, pursuant to full-output, cost-of-service power sale agreements. FGCO is also a sponsoring company and is entitled to a portion of the output from the plants owned by OVEC.
Revenues are primarily from the sale of electricity (provided from FES generating facilities and through purchased power arrangements) to affiliated utility companies to meet all or a portion of their PLR requirements. These affiliated power sales include a full-requirements PSA with OE, CEI and TE to supply each of their PLR obligations through 2008, at prices that take into consideration their respective PUCO authorized billing rates. FES also has a partial requirements wholesale power sales agreement with its affiliates, Met-Ed and Penelec, to supply a portion of each of their respective PLR obligations at fixed prices through 2010. FES also supplies the majority of the PLR requirements of Penn at market-based rates as a result of competitive solicitation conducted by Penn. FES' existing contractual obligations to Penn expire on May 31, 2008, but could continue if FES successfully bids in future competitive solicitations. FES revenues also include competitive retail and wholesale sales to non-affiliated customers in Ohio, Pennsylvania, Maryland and Michigan.
Results of Operations
Net income in the first quarter of 2007 increased to $103 million from $37 million in the first quarter of 2006. This increase was primarily due to higher revenues, lower fuel and other operating expenses, partially offset by higher purchased power costs.
Revenues
Revenues increased by $62 million or 6.5% in the first quarter of 2007 from the same period in 2006 due to increases in non-affiliated retail generation sales and affiliated wholesale sales.  Retail generation sales increased as a result of higher unit prices and greater KWH sales.  Higher unit prices primarily reflect higher generation rates in the new markets where FES is an alternative supplier. Increased KWH sales to FES commercial and industrial customers were partially offset by a decrease in residential customers as a result of those customers returning to the Ohio utility affiliates for their generation requirements. Affiliated wholesale sales were higher due to increased PSA sales to the Ohio Companies and increased sales to Met-Ed and Penelec.
1
The higher retail revenues resulted from increased sales in both the MISO and PJM markets. Non-affiliated wholesale sales revenues decreased as a result of lower unit prices and a 35.9% decrease in KWH sales. Lower non-affiliated wholesale revenues reflected the effect of less generation available for the non-affiliated wholesale market due to increased affiliated company power sales requirements under the Ohio Companies full-requirements PSA and the partial-requirements power sales agreement with Met-Ed and Penelec.
The increased affiliated company generation revenues were due to higher unit prices and increased KWH sales. The increase in KWH sales to the Ohio Companies was due to their higher retail generation sales requirements.  The higher unit prices resulted from the provision of their full-requirements PSA with FES under which the affiliated power sales unit prices reflected the increases in the Ohio Companies retail generation sales unit prices. The higher KWH sales to the Pennsylvania affiliates were due to increased Met-Ed and Penelec generation sales requirements. These increases were partially offset by lower KWH sales to Penn as a result of the implementation of its competitive solicitation process in the first quarter of 2007. The lower affiliated company revenues to Penn was partially offset by the impact of the addition of industrial and commercial shopping customers in Penns area reflected in the higher retail revenues discussed above. As a result of this process, Penn now purchases approximately 40% of its supply from non-affiliates.
Transmission revenues increased $3 million in the first quarter of 2007 compared to the same period of 2006 due to greater ancillary service revenues.
Changes in revenues in the first quarter of 2007 from the same period of 2006 are summarized in the following table:
The following table summarizes the price and volume factors contributing to the changes in revenue from non-affiliated and affiliated sales:
2
Expenses
Total expenses decreased by $37 million in the first quarter of 2007 compared to the first quarter of 2006 due to lower fuel and other operating costs which were partially offset by increased purchased power costs and higher depreciation expense.
The following table summarizes the factors contributing to the changes in fuel and purchased power costs:
Fossil fuel costs decreased $27 million as a result of decreased generation output due to the planned maintenance outages at Sammis Units 6 and 7 and Eastlake Unit 5 and the forced outages at Bruce Mansfield Units 1 and 2, partially offset by the effect of higher coal prices. The decreased fossil fuel costs were partially offset by higher nuclear fuel costs of $7 million due to increased nuclear generation in the first quarter of 2007 as compared to the same period of 2006. Purchased power costs increased as a result of increased KWH purchases, partially offset by lower unit prices. KWH purchases in the first quarter of 2007 increased by 8.4% compared to the same period of 2006 reflecting the effect of the outages at the Sammis, Eastlake and Mansfield plants.
The decrease of $45 million in other operating expenses in the first quarter of 2007 compared to the same period last year was primarily driven by lower nuclear operating costs due to the absence of refueling outage costs in the first quarter of 2007. This decrease was partially offset by higher fossil generating costs and transmission expenses.  The higher fossil costs resulted from the outages at the Sammis and Eastlake plants.  Transmission expenses increased due to higher PJM congestion and ancillary charges related to the increase in affiliated generation sales discussed above and higher MISO transmission expenses.
Depreciation expense increased by $5 million primarily due to fossil and nuclear property additions since the first quarter of 2006.
General taxes increased by $2 million in the first quarter of 2007 compared to the same period of 2006 due to higher property taxes.
Other Expense
Total other expense decreased by $9 million in the first quarter of 2007 compared to the same period of 2006 due to lower interest expense and higher miscellaneous income.  Lower interest expense was due to the repayment of higher-cost notes to associated companies, partially offset by assuming additional pollution control debt subsequent to April 1, 2006 having lower interest rates.  Other miscellaneous income increased as a result of the absence of mark-to-market losses that were recorded in the first quarter of 2006.
Capital Resources and Liquidity
FES cash requirements in 2007 for operating expenses, construction expenditures and debt redemptions are expected to be met with a combination of cash from operations, an equity contribution from FirstEnergy and funds from the capital markets. FES $700 million equity contribution from FirstEnergy in February 2007 is further discussed under Cash Flows From Financing Activities below. Borrowing capacity under the unregulated money pool and bank credit facilities are expected to be available to manage working capital requirements. In subsequent years, FES expects to use a combination of cash from operations and funds from the capital markets.
3
Changes in Cash Position
As of March 31, 2007, FES cash and cash equivalents of $2,000 remained unchanged from December 31, 2006.
Cash Flows From Operating Activities
Net cash provided from operating activities in the first quarter of 2007 and 2006 is summarized as follows:
Net cash provided from operating activities increased by $235 million in the first quarter of 2007 compared to the same period of 2006 primarily due to a $66 million increase in net income (see Results of Operations) and $252 million from changes in working capital and other, partially offset by a $19 million decrease in non-cash charges and a $64 million pension trust contribution in the first quarter of 2007.  The increase from working capital and other was principally due to changes in accounts payable of $259 million.
Cash Flows From Financing Activities
Cash provided from financing activities was $152 million and $91 million in the first quarters of 2007 and 2006, respectively. The comparative change was primarily due to increased short-term borrowings in the first quarter of 2007, partially offset by the use of proceeds from the equity contribution and short-term borrowings to pay-down intercompany GAT-related promissory notes, summarized as follows:
 
 
FES had approximately $1.2 billion of short-term indebtedness as of March 31, 2007 compared to approximately $1.0 billion as of December 31, 2006.
On August 24, 2006, FirstEnergy and certain of its subsidiaries entered into a $2.75 billion five-year revolving credit facility, which replaced FirstEnergys prior $2 billion credit facility. FirstEnergy may request an increase in the total commitments available under this facility up to a maximum of $3.25 billion. Commitments under the facility are available until August 24, 2011, unless the lenders agree, at the request of the borrowers, to two additional one-year extensions. Generally, borrowings under the facility must be repaid within 364 days. Available amounts for each borrower are subject to a specified sublimit, as well as applicable regulatory and other limitations.  FES is currently able to borrow $250 million under the facility.
The revolving credit facility contains financial covenants requiring each borrower to maintain a consolidated debt to total capitalization ratio of no more than 65%, measured at the end of each fiscal quarter. As of March 31, 2007, FES debt to total capitalization ratio as defined under the revolving credit facility was 57%.
The revolving credit facility does not contain provisions that either restrict the ability to borrow or accelerate repayment of outstanding advances as a result of any change in credit ratings. Pricing is defined in pricing grids, whereby the cost of funds borrowed under the facility is related to the credit ratings of the company borrowing the funds.
4
FES has the ability to borrow from FirstEnergy to meet its short-term working capital requirements. FESC administers a money pool and tracks surplus funds of FirstEnergy and its unregulated subsidiaries, as well as proceeds available from bank borrowings. Companies receiving a loan under the money pool agreements must repay the principal amount of the loan, together with accrued interest, within 364 days of borrowing the funds. The rate of interest is the same for each company receiving a loan from the pool and is based on the average cost of funds available through the pool. The average interest rate for borrowings in the first quarter of 2007 was approximately 5.61%.
On February 21, 2007, FirstEnergy made a $700 million equity investment in FES, all of which was subsequently contributed to FGCO and used to pay-down portions of the GAT-related promissory notes owed to the Ohio Companies and Penn.
On March 2, 2007, FES entered into a $250 million bridge loan facility with Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc.  FirstEnergy provided a guaranty of FES' loan obligations until such time that FES senior unsecured debt was rated at least BBB- by S&P or Baa3 by Moody's and also concurrently entered into a substantially similar bridge loan facility for the same amount with the same lender. On March 26, 2007, S&P assigned FES a corporate credit rating of BBB. On March 27, 2007, Moody's assigned FES an issuer rating of Baa2. On May 22, 2007, each bridge loans initial maturity date of June 1, 2007 was extended to July 1, 2007.
Cash Flows From Investing Activities
Net cash used for investing activities in the first quarter of 2007 increased by $296 million compared to the same period of 2006. The increase was principally due to a $426 million increase in loans to associated companies, partially offset by a $115 million decrease in property additions, reflecting the replacement of the steam generators and reactor head at Beaver Valley Unit 1 in 2006.
During the remaining three quarters of 2007, capital requirements for property additions and capital leases are expected to be approximately $552 million. These cash requirements are expected to be satisfied from a combination of internal cash and short-term credit arrangements.
FES capital spending for the period 2007-2011 is expected to be about $2.8 billion (excluding nuclear fuel), of which $571 million applies to 2007. Investments for additional nuclear fuel during the 2007-2011 period are estimated to be approximately $1.2 billion, of which about $99 million applies to 2007. During the same period, FES nuclear fuel investments are expected to be reduced by approximately $810 million and $104 million, respectively, as the nuclear fuel is consumed.
Guarantees and Other Assurances
In anticipation of the S&P and Moodys credit ratings discussed above, on March 26, 2007, FES entered into guaranties in favor of present and future holders of FGCO and NGC indebtedness. FGCO and NGC also entered into guaranties in favor of present and future holders of FES indebtedness. Accordingly, guaranteed parties will have claims against FES, FGCO and NGC, regardless of whether their primary obligor is either FES, FGCO or NGC.  In addition, as previously disclosed, provisions have been included in applicable FGCO and NGC 2005 and 2006 debt transaction documents that permit FES to replace FirstEnergy as guarantor effective as early as 91 days after FES attains senior unsecured debt ratings of at least BBB- by S&P and Baa3 by Moodys.
Market Risk Information
FES uses various market risk sensitive instruments, including derivative contracts, primarily to manage the risk of price and interest rate fluctuations. FirstEnergys Risk Policy Committee, comprised of members of senior management, provides general oversight to risk management activities.
Commodity Price Risk
FES is exposed to financial and market risks resulting from the fluctuation of interest rates and commodity prices primarily due to fluctuations in electricity, energy transmission, natural gas, coal, nuclear fuel and emission allowance prices. To manage the volatility relating to these exposures, FES uses a variety of non-derivative and derivative instruments, including forward contracts, options, futures contracts and swaps. The derivatives are used principally for hedging purposes. Derivatives that fall within the scope of SFAS 133 must be recorded at their fair value and marked to market. The majority of FES derivative hedging contracts qualify for the normal purchase and normal sale exception under SFAS 133 and are therefore excluded from the table below. The change in the fair value of commodity derivative contracts related to energy production during the first quarter of 2007 is summarized in the following table:
5
Derivatives are included on the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of March 31, 2007 as follows:
The valuation of derivative contracts is based on observable market information to the extent that such information is available. In cases where such information is not available, FES relies on model-based information. The model provides estimates of future regional prices for electricity and an estimate of related price volatility. FES uses these results to develop estimates of fair value for financial reporting purposes and for internal management decision making. FES used other external sources for the valuation of commodity derivative contracts as of March 31, 2007.
FES performs sensitivity analyses to estimate its exposure to the market risk of its commodity positions. A hypothetical 10% adverse shift (an increase or decrease depending on the derivative position) in quoted market prices in the near term on its derivative instruments would not have had a material effect on FES consolidated financial position (assets, liabilities and equity) or cash flows as of March 31, 2007. Based on derivative contracts held as of March 31, 2007, an adverse 10% change in commodity prices would decrease net income by approximately $2 million for the next 12 months.
Equity Price Risk
Included in nuclear decommissioning trusts are marketable equity securities carried at their current fair value of approximately $864 million as of March 31, 2007. A hypothetical 10% decrease in prices quoted by stock exchanges would result in an $86 million reduction in fair value as of March 31, 2007.
Credit Risk
Credit risk is the risk of an obligors failure to meet the terms of any investment contract, loan agreement or otherwise perform as agreed. Credit risk arises from all activities in which success depends on issuer, borrower or counterparty performance, whether reflected on or off the balance sheet. FES engages in transactions for the purchase and sale of commodities including gas, electricity, coal and emission allowances. These transactions are often with major energy companies within the industry.
6
FES maintains credit policies with respect to its counterparties to manage overall credit risk. This includes performing independent risk evaluations, actively monitoring portfolio trends and using collateral and contract provisions to mitigate exposure. As part of FES credit program, FES aggressively manages the quality of its portfolio of energy contracts, evidenced by a current weighted average risk rating for energy contract counterparties of BBB (S&P). As of March 31, 2007, the largest credit concentration with one non-affiliated party (currently rated investment grade) represented 10.6% of its total credit risk. As of March 31, 2007, 98.4%of FES credit exposure, net of collateral and reserves, was with non-affiliated, investment-grade counterparties.
 
Power Supply Agreements with Regulated Affiliates
Met-Ed and Penelec have been purchasing a portion of their PLR requirements from FES through a partial requirements wholesale power sales agreement and various amendments. Under these agreements, FES retained the supply obligation and the supply profit and loss risk for the portion of power supply requirements not self-supplied by Met-Ed and Penelec. The FES agreements have reduced Met-Ed's and Penelec's exposure to high wholesale power prices by providing power at a fixed price for their uncommitted PLR capacity and energy costs during the term of these agreements with FES.
On April 7, 2006, the parties entered into a tolling agreement that arose from FES notice to Met-Ed and Penelec that FES elected to exercise its right to terminate the partial requirements agreement effective midnight December 31, 2006. On November 29, 2006, Met-Ed, Penelec and FES agreed to suspend the April 7 tolling agreement pending resolution of the PPUCs proceedings regarding the Met-Ed and Penelec comprehensive transition rate cases filed April 10, 2006. Separately, on September 26, 2006, Met-Ed and Penelec successfully conducted a competitive RFP for a portion of their PLR obligation for the period December 1, 2006 through December 31, 2008. FES was one of the successful bidders in that RFP process and on September 26, 2006 entered into a supplier master agreement to supply a certain portion of Met-Eds and Penelecs PLR requirements at market prices that substantially exceed the fixed price in the partial requirements agreements.
Based on the outcome of the 2006 comprehensive transition rate filing, Met-Ed, Penelec and FES agreed to restate the partial requirements power sales agreement effective January 1, 2007. The restated agreement incorporates the same fixed price for residual capacity and energy supplied by FES as in the prior arrangements between the parties, and automatically extends for successive one year terms unless any party gives 60 days notice prior to the end of the year. The restated agreement allows Met-Ed and Penelec to sell the output of NUG generation to the market and requires FES to provide energy at fixed prices to replace any NUG energy thus sold to the extent needed for Met-Ed and Penelec to satisfy their PLR obligations. The parties have also separately terminated the tolling, suspension and supplier master agreements in connection with the restatement of the partial requirements agreement. Accordingly, the energy that would have been supplied under the supplier master agreement will now be provided under the restated partial requirements agreement.
As a result of Penns PLR competitive solicitation process approved by the PPUC for the period January 1, 2007 through May 31, 2008, FES was selected as the winning bidder for a number of the tranches for individual customer classes. The balance of the tranches is supplied by unaffiliated power suppliers. On October 2, 2006, FES filed an application with the FERC under Section 205 of the Federal Power Act for authorization to make these affiliate sales to Penn. This filing was accepted by the FERC on November 15, 2006, and no request for rehearing was filed.
Environmental Matters
FES accrues environmental liabilities only when it concludes that it is probable that it has an obligation for such costs and can reasonably estimate the amount of such costs. Unasserted claims are reflected in FES determination of environmental liabilities and are accrued in the period that they become both probable and reasonably estimable.
Clean Air Act Compliance
FES is required to meet federally-approved SO emissions regulations. Violations of such regulations can result in shutdown of the generating unit involved and/or civil or criminal penalties of up to $32,500 for each day the unit is in violation. The EPA has an interim enforcement policy for SO regulations in Ohio that allows for compliance based on a 30-day averaging period. FES believes it is currently in compliance with this policy, but cannot predict what action the EPA may take in the future with respect to the interim enforcement policy.
2
2
7
The EPA Region 5 issued a Finding of Violation and NOV to the Bay Shore Power Plant dated June 15, 2006 alleging violations to various sections of the Clean Air Act. FES has disputed those alleged violations based on its Clean Air Act permit, the Ohio SIP and other information provided at an August 2006 meeting with the EPA. The EPA has several enforcement options (administrative compliance order, administrative penalty order, and/or judicial, civil or criminal action) and has indicated that such option may depend on the time needed to achieve and demonstrate compliance with the rules alleged to have been violated. TE, an affiliated company, owned the Bay Shore Power Plant at the time of the alleged violation.  FES owns and operates the plant.
FES complies with SO reduction requirements under the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990 by burning lower-sulfur fuel, generating more electricity from lower-emitting plants, and/or using emission allowances. NO reductions required by the 1990 Amendments are being achieved through combustion controls and the generation of more electricity at lower-emitting plants. In September 1998, the EPA finalized regulations requiring additional NO reductions at FES' facilities. The EPA's NO Transport Rule imposes uniform reductions of NO emissions (an approximate 85% reduction in utility plant NO emissions from projected 2007 emissions) across a region of nineteen states (including Michigan, New Jersey, Ohio and Pennsylvania) and the District of Columbia based on a conclusion that such NO emissions are contributing significantly to ozone levels in the eastern United States. FES believes its facilities are also complying with the NO budgets established under SIPs through combustion controls and post-combustion controls, including Selective Catalytic Reduction and Selective Non-Catalytic Reduction systems, and/or using emission allowances.
2
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
 
On May 22, 2007, FirstEnergy and FGCO received a notice letter, required 60 days prior to the filing of a citizen suit under the federal Clean Air Act, alleging violations of air pollution laws at the Mansfield Plant, including opacity limitations. Prior to the receipt of this notice, the Mansfield Plant was subject to a Consent Order and Agreement with the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection concerning opacity emissions under which efforts to achieve compliance with the applicable laws will continue.
National Ambient Air Quality Standards
In July 1997, the EPA promulgated changes in the NAAQS for ozone and fine particulate matter. In March 2005, the EPA finalized the CAIR covering a total of 28 states (including Michigan, New Jersey, Ohio and Pennsylvania) and the District of Columbia based on proposed findings that air emissions from 28 eastern states and the District of Columbia significantly contribute to non-attainment of the NAAQS for fine particles and/or the "8-hour" ozone NAAQS in other states. CAIR provided each affected state until 2006 to develop implementing regulations to achieve additional reductions of NO and SO emissions in two phases (Phase I in 2009 for NO, 2010 for SO and Phase II in 2015 for both NO and SO). FES Michigan, Ohio and Pennsylvania fossil-fired generation facilities will be subject to caps on SO and NO emissions. According to the EPA, SO emissions will be reduced by 45% (from 2003 levels) by 2010 across the states covered by the rule, with reductions reaching 73% (from 2003 levels) by 2015, capping SO emissions in affected states to just 2.5 million tons annually. NO emissions will be reduced by 53% (from 2003 levels) by 2009 across the states covered by the rule, with reductions reaching 61% (from 2003 levels) by 2015, achieving a regional NO cap of 1.3 million tons annually. The future cost of compliance with these regulations may be substantial and will depend on how they are ultimately implemented by the states in which FES operates affected facilities.
X
2
X
2
X
2
2
X
2
2
X
X
Mercury Emissions
In December 2000, the EPA announced it would proceed with the development of regulations regarding hazardous air pollutants from electric power plants, identifying mercury as the hazardous air pollutant of greatest concern. In March 2005, the EPA finalized the CAMR, which provides a cap-and-trade program to reduce mercury emissions from coal-fired power plants in two phases. Initially, mercury emissions will be capped nationally at 38 tons by 2010 (as a "co-benefit" from implementation of SO and NO emission caps under the EPA's CAIR program). Phase II of the mercury cap-and-trade program will cap nationwide mercury emissions from coal-fired power plants at 15 tons per year by 2018. However, the final rules give states substantial discretion in developing rules to implement these programs. In addition, both the CAIR and the CAMR have been challenged in the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia. FES future cost of compliance with these regulations may be substantial and will depend on how they are ultimately implemented by the states in which FES operates affected facilities.
2
X
The model rules for both CAIR and CAMR contemplate an input-based methodology to allocate allowances to affected facilities. Under this approach, allowances would be allocated based on the amount of fuel consumed by the affected sources. FES would prefer an output-based generation-neutral methodology in which allowances are allocated based on megawatts of power produced, allowing new and non-emitting generating facilities (including renewables and nuclear) to be entitled to their proportionate share of the allowances. Consequently, FES will be disadvantaged if these model rules were implemented as proposed because FES substantial reliance on non-emitting (largely nuclear) generation is not recognized under the input-based allocation.
8
Pennsylvania has submitted a new mercury rule for EPA approval that does not provide a cap and trade approach as in the CAMR, but rather follows a command and control approach imposing emission limits on individual sources. Pennsylvanias mercury regulation would deprive FES of mercury emission allowances that were to be allocated to the Mansfield Plant under the CAMR and that would otherwise be available for achieving FES system-wide compliance. It is anticipated that compliance with these regulations, if approved by the EPA and implemented, would not require the addition of mercury controls at Mansfield, FES only Pennsylvania power plant, until 2015, if at all.
W. H. Sammis Plant
In 1999 and 2000, the EPA issued NOV or compliance orders to nine utilities alleging violations of the Clean Air Act based on operation and maintenance of 44 power plants, including the W. H. Sammis Plant, which was owned at that time by OE and Penn, and is now owned by FGCO. In addition, the DOJ filed eight civil complaints against various investor-owned utilities, including a complaint against OE and Penn in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Ohio. These cases are referred to as the New Source Review cases.
On March 18, 2005, OE and Penn announced that they had reached a settlement with the EPA, the DOJ and three states (Connecticut, New Jersey, and New York) that resolved all issues related to the New Source Review litigation. This settlement agreement, which is in the form of a consent decree, was approved by the Court on July 11, 2005, and requires reductions of NO and SO emissions at the W. H. Sammis Plant and other FES coal-fired plants through the installation of pollution control devices and provides for stipulated penalties for failure to install and operate such pollution controls in accordance with that agreement. Consequently, if FirstEnergy fails to install such pollution control devices, for any reason, including, but not limited to, the failure of any third-party contractor to timely meet its delivery obligations for such devices, FGCO and its affiliates, OE and Penn, could be exposed to penalties under the Sammis NSR Litigation consent decree. Capital expenditures necessary to complete requirements of the Sammis NSR Litigation are currently estimated to be $1.5 billion ($400 million of which is expected to be spent in 2007, with the largest portion of the remaining $1.1 billion expected to be spent in 2008 and 2009).
X
2
The Sammis NSR Litigation consent decree also requires FGCO and its affiliates, OE and Penn, to spend up to $25 million toward environmentally beneficial projects, $14 million of which is satisfied by entering into 93 MW (or 23 MW if federal tax credits are not applicable) of wind energy purchased power agreements with a 20-year term. An initial 16 MW of the 93 MW consent decree obligation was satisfied during 2006.
On August 26, 2005, FGCO entered into an agreement with Bechtel Power Corporation under which Bechtel will engineer, procure, and construct air quality control systems for the reduction of SO emissions. FGCO also entered into an agreement with B&W on August 25, 2006 to supply flue gas desulfurization systems for the reduction of SO emissions. SCR systems for the reduction of NO emissions also are being installed at the W.H. Sammis Plant under a 1999 agreement with B&W.
2
2
x
Climate Change
In December 1997, delegates to the United Nations' climate summit in Japan adopted an agreement, the Kyoto Protocol, to address global warming by reducing the amount of man-made GHG emitted by developed countries by 5.2% from 1990 levels between 2008 and 2012. The United States signed the Kyoto Protocol in 1998 but it failed to receive the two-thirds vote required for ratification by the United States Senate. However, the Bush administration has committed the United States to a voluntary climate change strategy to reduce domestic GHG intensity  the ratio of emissions to economic output  by 18% through 2012. At the international level, efforts have begun to develop climate change agreements for post-2012 GHG reductions. The EPACT established a Committee on Climate Change Technology to coordinate federal climate change activities and promote the development and deployment of GHG reducing technologies.
At the federal level, members of Congress have introduced several bills seeking to reduce emissions of GHG in the United States.  State activities, primarily the northeastern states participating in the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative and western states led by California, have coordinated efforts to develop regional strategies to control emissions of certain GHGs.
On April 2, 2007, the United States Supreme Court found that the EPA has the authority to regulate CO emissions from automobiles as air pollutants under the Clean Air Act. Although this decision did not address CO emissions from electric generating plants, the EPA has similar authority under the Clean Air Act to regulate air pollutants from those and other facilities.
2
2
9
FES cannot currently estimate the financial impact of climate change policies, although potential legislative or regulatory programs restricting CO emissions could require significant capital and other expenditures. The CO emissions per KWH of electricity generated by FES is lower than many regional competitors due to its diversified generation sources, which include low or non-CO emitting gas-fired and nuclear generators.
2
2
2
Clean Water Act
Various water quality regulations, the majority of which are the result of the federal Clean Water Act and its amendments, apply to FES' plants. In addition, Ohio, New Jersey and Pennsylvania have water quality standards applicable to FES operations. As provided in the Clean Water Act, authority to grant federal National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System water discharge permits can be assumed by a state. Ohio, New Jersey and Pennsylvania have assumed such authority.
On September 7, 2004, the EPA established new performance standards under Section 316(b) of the Clean Water Act for reducing impacts on fish and shellfish from cooling water intake structures at certain existing large electric generating plants. The regulations call for reductions in impingement mortality, when aquatic organisms are pinned against screens or other parts of a cooling water intake system, and entrainment, which occurs when aquatic life is drawn into a facility's cooling water system. On January 26, 2007, the federal Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit remanded portions of the rulemaking dealing with impingement mortality and entrainment back to EPA for further rulemaking and eliminated the restoration option from EPAs regulations.  FES is conducting comprehensive demonstration studies, due in 2008, to determine the operational measures or equipment, if any, necessary for compliance by its facilities with the performance standards. FES is unable to predict the outcome of such studies or changes in these requirements from the remand to EPA. Depending on the outcome of such studies and EPAs further rulemaking, the future cost of compliance with these standards may require material capital expenditures.
Regulation of Hazardous Waste
As a result of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976, as amended, and the Toxic Substances Control Act of 1976, federal and state hazardous waste regulations have been promulgated. Certain fossil fuel combustion waste products, such as coal ash, were exempted from hazardous waste disposal requirements pending the EPA's evaluation of the need for future regulation. The EPA subsequently determined that regulation of coal ash as a hazardous waste is unnecessary. In April 2000, the EPA announced that it will develop national standards regulating disposal of coal ash under its authority to regulate nonhazardous waste.
Under NRC regulations, FES and its affiliates, OE and TE, must ensure that adequate funds will be available to decommission their nuclear facilities in proportion to their respective ownership or leased interest in the nuclear units. As of March 31, 2007, NGC had approximately $1.3 billion invested in external trusts to be used for the decommissioning and environmental remediation of Davis-Besse, Beaver Valley and Perry. As part of the application to the NRC to transfer the ownership of these nuclear facilities to NGC, FirstEnergy agreed to contribute another $80 million to these trusts by 2010; $63 million of which has been recognized as a note receivable from Penn on FES Consolidated Balance Sheet. Consistent with NRC guidance, utilizing a real rate of return on these funds of approximately 2% over inflation, these trusts are expected to exceed the minimum decommissioning funding requirements set by the NRC. Conservatively, these estimates do not include any rate of return that the trusts may earn over the 20-year plant useful life extensions that FirstEnergy plans to seek for these facilities.
Other Legal Proceedings
Nuclear Plant Matters
On August 12, 2004, the NRC notified FENOC that it would increase its regulatory oversight of the Perry Nuclear Power Plant as a result of problems with safety system equipment over the preceding two years and the licensee's failure to take prompt and corrective action. On April 4, 2005, the NRC held a public meeting to discuss FENOCs performance at the Perry Nuclear Power Plant as identified in the NRC's annual assessment letter to FENOC. Similar public meetings are held with all nuclear power plant licensees following issuance by the NRC of their annual assessments. According to the NRC, overall the Perry Nuclear Power Plant operated "in a manner that preserved public health and safety" even though it remained under heightened NRC oversight. During the public meeting and in the annual assessment, the NRC indicated that additional inspections will continue and that the plant must improve performance to be removed from the Multiple/Repetitive Degraded Cornerstone Column of the Action Matrix.
On September 28, 2005, the NRC sent a CAL to FENOC describing commitments that FENOC had made to improve the performance at the Perry Nuclear Power Plant and stated that the CAL would remain open until substantial improvement was demonstrated. The CAL was anticipated as part of the NRC's Reactor Oversight Process. By two letters dated March 2, 2007, the NRC closed the Confirmatory Action Letter commitments for Perry, the two outstanding white findings, and crosscutting issues.  Moreover, the NRC removed Perry from the Multiple Degraded Cornerstone Column of the NRC Action Matrix and placed the plant in the Licensee Response Column (routine agency oversight).
10
On April 30, 2007, the Union of Concerned Scientists (UCS) filed a petition with the NRC under Section 2.206 of the NRCs regulations based on an expert witness report that FENOC developed for an unrelated insurance arbitration.  In December 2006, the expert witnesses for FENOC prepared a report that analyzed the crack growth rates in control rod drive mechanism penetrations and wastage of the former reactor pressure vessel head at Davis-Besse. Citing the findings in the expert witnesses' report, the Section 2.206 petition requested that: (1) Davis-Besse be immediately shut down; (2) that the NRC conduct an independent review of the consultant's report and that all pressurized water reactors be shut down until remedial actions can be implemented; and (3) that Davis-Besses operating license be revoked.
In a letter dated May 4, 2007, the NRC stated that "the current inspection requirements are sufficient to detect degradation of a reactor pressure vessel head penetration nozzles prior to the development of significant head wastage even if the assumptions and conclusions in the [expert witness] report relating to the wastage of the head at Davis-Besse were applied to all pressurized water reactors."  The NRC also indicated that while they are developing a more complete response to the UCS' petition, the staff informed UCS that, as an initial matter, it has determined that no immediate action with respect to Davis-Besse or other nuclear plant is warranted. On May 14, 2007, the Office of Enforcement of the NRC issued a Demand for Information to FENOC   The NRC indicated that this information is needed for the NRC to determine whether an Order or other action should be taken pursuant to 10 CFR 2.202, to provide reasonable assurance that FENOC will continue to operate its licensed facilities in accordance with the terms of its licenses and the Commissions regulations.  FENOC was directed to submit the information to the NRC within 30 days.  FENOC intends to comply with this Demand for Information. FirstEnergy can provide no assurances as to the ultimate resolution of this matter.
following FENOCs reply to an April 2, 2007 NRC request for information about the expert witnesses report.
Other Legal Matters
There are various lawsuits, claims (including claims for asbestos exposure) and proceedings related to FES normal business operations pending against FES and its subsidiaries, the most significant of which are described above.
If it were ultimately determined that FES or its subsidiaries have legal liability or are otherwise made subject to liability based on the above matters, it could have a material adverse effect on FES or its subsidiaries' financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.
New Accounting Standards and Interpretations
In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS 159, which provides companies with an option to report selected financial assets and liabilities at fair value. The Standard requires companies to provide additional information that will help investors and other users of financial statements to more easily understand the effect of the companys choice to use fair value on its earnings. The Standard also requires companies to display the fair value of those assets and liabilities for which the company has chosen to use fair value on the face of the balance sheet. This guidance does not eliminate disclosure requirements included in other accounting standards, including requirements for disclosures about fair value measurements included in SFAS 157and SFAS 107This Statement is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007, and interim periods within those years. FES is currently evaluating the impact of this Statement on its financial statements.
 
.
SFAS 157  Fair Value Measurements
In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS 157 that establishes how companies should measure fair value when they are required to use a fair value measure for recognition or disclosure purposes under GAAP. This Statement addresses the need for increased consistency and comparability in fair value measurements and for expanded disclosures about fair value measurements. The key changes to current practice are: (1) the definition of fair value which focuses on an exit price rather than entry price; (2) the methods used to measure fair value such as emphasis that fair value is a market-based measurement, not an entity-specific measurement, as well as the inclusion of an adjustment for risk, restrictions and credit standing; and (3) the expanded disclosures about fair value measurements. This Statement is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007, and interim periods within those years. FES is currently evaluating the impact of this Statement on its financial statements.
11
EITF 06-10  Accounting for Deferred Compensation and Postretirement Benefit Aspects of Collateral
Split-Dollar Life Insurance Arrangements
In March 2007, the EITF reached a final consensus on Issue 06-10 concluding that an employer should recognize a liability for the postretirement obligation associated with a collateral assignment split-dollar life insurance arrangement if, based on the substantive arrangement with the employee, the employer has agreed to maintain a life insurance policy during the employees retirement or provide the employee with a death benefit. The liability should be recognized in accordance with SFAS 106if, in substance, a postretirement plan exists or APB 12 if the arrangement is, in substance, an individual deferred compensation contract. The EITF also reached a consensus that the employer should recognize and measure the associated asset on the basis of the terms of the collateral assignment arrangement. This pronouncement is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2007, including interim periods within those years. FES does not expect this pronouncement to have a material impact on its financial statements.
 
12
 
 
 
13
 
 
 
14
 
 
 
15
1.  ORGANIZATION AND BASIS OF PRESENTATION
The consolidated financial statements include FES and its wholly owned subsidiaries, FGCO and NGC. FES is a wholly owned subsidiary of FirstEnergy. FirstEnergy also holds directly, or indirectly, all of the issued and outstanding common shares of its eight principal electric utility operating subsidiaries: OE, Penn, CEI, TE, ATSI, JCP&L, Met-Ed and Penelec. Penn is a wholly owned subsidiary of OE.
On December 28, 2006, the NRC approved the transfer of ownership in NGC from FirstEnergy to FES. Effective December 31, 2006, NGC is a wholly owned subsidiary of FES and a second tier subsidiary of FirstEnergy. FENOC continues to operate and maintain the nuclear generation assets. FES results in 2006 reflect all of the GAT changes and therefore, no allocations or adjustments, except for those related to the NGC corporate restructuring were reflected in the 2006 financial statements.
FES follows GAAP and complies with the regulations, orders, policies and practices prescribed by the SEC and the FERC. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make periodic estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. Actual results could differ from these estimates. The reported results of operations are not indicative of results of operations for any future period.
These statements should be read in conjunction with the financial statements and notes included in FES 2006 Annual Report, which was furnished on FirstEnergys Form 8-K dated April, 20, 2007. The consolidated unaudited financial statements of FES reflect all normal recurring adjustments that, in the opinion of management, are necessary to fairly present results of operations for the interim periods.
FES operates in one business segment that provides energy-related products and services to wholesale and retail customers in Ohio, Pennsylvania, Michigan and Maryland. The segment also generates and sells power to meet all or a portion of the PLR requirements for FirstEnergys Ohio and Pennsylvania utility subsidiaries.
Unless otherwise indicated, defined terms used herein have the meanings set forth in the accompanying Glossary of Terms.
2.  DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS
FES is exposed to financial risks resulting from the fluctuation of interest rates and commodity prices, including prices for electricity, natural gas, coal and energy transmission. To manage the volatility relating to these exposures, FES uses a variety of derivative instruments, including forward contracts, options, futures contracts and swaps. The derivatives are used principally for hedging purposes. FirstEnergy's Risk Policy Committee, comprised of members of senior management, provides general management oversight to risk management activities throughout the Company. They are responsible for promoting the effective design and implementation of sound risk management programs. They also oversee compliance with corporate risk management policies and established risk management practices.
FES accounts for derivative instruments on its Consolidated Balance Sheet at their fair value unless they meet the normal purchase and normal sales criteria. Derivatives that meet those criteria are accounted for on the accrual basis. The changes in the fair value of derivative instruments that do not meet the normal purchase and normal sales criteria are recorded as other expense, as AOCI, or as part of the value of the hedged item, depending on whether or not it is designated as part of a hedge transaction, the nature of the hedge transaction and hedge effectiveness.
The net deferred losses of $1 million included in AOCI as of March 31, 2007, for derivative hedging activity, as compared to the December 31, 2006 balance of $10 million of net deferred gains, resulted from a net $4 million decrease related to current hedging activity and a $7 million decrease due to net hedge losses reclassified into earnings during the three months ended March 31, 2007. Based on current estimates, approximately $1 million (after tax) of the net deferred gains on derivative instruments in AOCI as of March 31, 2007 is expected to be reclassified to earnings during the next twelve months as hedged transactions occur. The fair value of these derivative instruments fluctuate from period to period based on various market factors.
16
 
3.  ASSET RETIREMENT OBLIGATIONS
 
FES has recognized applicable legal obligations under SFAS 143 for nuclear power plant decommissioning, reclamation of a sludge disposal pond and closure of two coal ash disposal sites. In addition, FES has recognized conditional retirement obligations (primarily for asbestos remediation) in accordance with FIN 47.
The ARO liability of $772 million as of March 31, 2007 primarily related to the nuclear decommissioning of the Beaver Valley, Davis-Besse and Perry nuclear generating facilities. The obligation to decommission these units was developed based on site specific studies performed by an independent engineer. FES utilized an expected cash flow approach to measure the fair value of the nuclear decommissioning ARO.
FES maintains nuclear decommissioning trust funds that are legally restricted for purposes of settling the nuclear decommissioning ARO. As of March 31, 2007, the fair value of the decommissioning trust assets was nearly $1.3 billion.
The following tables analyze changes to the ARO balance during the first quarters of 2007 and 2006, respectively.
4.  PENSION AND OTHER POSTRETIREMENT BENEFITS
FirstEnergy provides noncontributory defined benefit pension plans that cover substantially all of its employees. The trusteed plans provide defined benefits based on years of service and compensation levels. The Company's funding policy is based on actuarial computations using the projected unit credit method. On January 2, 2007, FirstEnergy made a $300 million (FES share was $64 million) voluntary cash contribution to its qualified pension plan. Based on current projections, FirstEnergy believes that additional cash contributions will not be required before 2016. FirstEnergy also provides a minimum amount of noncontributory life insurance to retired employees in addition to optional contributory insurance. Health care benefits, which include certain employee contributions, deductibles and co-payments, are available upon retirement to employees hired prior to January 1, 2005, their dependents and, under certain circumstances, their survivors. FirstEnergy recognizes the expected cost of providing pension benefits and other postretirement benefits from the time employees are hired until they become eligible to receive those benefits. During 2006, FirstEnergy amended the health care plan effective in 2008 to cap the monthly contribution for many of the retirees and their spouses receiving subsidized health care coverage. In addition, FirstEnergy has obligations to former or inactive employees after employment, but before retirement, for disability-related benefits.
The components of FirstEnergy's net periodic pension cost and other postretirement benefit cost (including amounts capitalized) for the three months ended March 31, 2007 and 2006, consisted of the following:
17
5.  INCOME TAXES
FES is included in FirstEnergys consolidated federal income tax return. The consolidated tax liability is allocated on a stand-alone company basis, with FES recognizing any tax losses or credits it contributes to the consolidated return. On January 1, 2007, FirstEnergy adopted FIN 48, which provides guidance for accounting for uncertainty in income taxes recognized in a companys financial statements in accordance with SFAS 109. This interpretation prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement attribute for financial statement recognition and measurement of tax positions taken or expected to be taken on a companys tax return. FIN 48 also provides guidance on derecognition, classification, interest, penalties, accounting in interim periods, disclosure and transition. The evaluation of a tax position in accordance with this interpretation is a two-step process. The first step is to determine if it is more likely than not that a tax position will be sustained upon examination and should therefore be recognized. The second step is to measure a tax position that meets the more likely than not recognition threshold to determine the amount of income tax benefit to recognize in the financial statements.
As of January 1, 2007, the total amount of FirstEnergys unrecognized tax benefits allocated to FES was $14 million. FES recorded a $0.5 million cumulative effect adjustment to the January 1, 2007 balance of retained earnings to increase reserves for uncertain tax positions. Of the total amount of unrecognized income tax benefits, $6 million would favorably affect FES effective tax rate upon recognition. During the first quarter of 2007, there were no material changes to FES unrecognized tax benefits. The entire balance is included in other non-current liabilities.
FIN 48 also requires companies to recognize interest expense or income related to uncertain tax positions. That amount is computed by applying the applicable statutory interest rate to the difference between the tax position recognized in accordance with FIN 48 and the amount previously taken or expected to be taken on the tax return. FES includes net interest and penalties in the provision for income taxes, consistent with its policy prior to implementing FIN 48. As of January 1, 2007, FES net amount of interest accrued was $2.7 million.  During the first quarter of 2007, there were no material changes to the amount of interest accrued.
FirstEnergy has tax returns that are under review at the audit or appeals level by the IRS and state tax authorities. All state jurisdictions are open from 2001-2006. The IRS began reviewing returns for the years 2001-2003 in July 2004 and several items are under appeal. The federal audit for years 2004 and 2005 began in June 2006 and is not expected to close before December 2007. The IRS began auditing the year 2006 in April 2006 under its Compliance Assurance Process experimental program, and is not expected to close before December 2007. Management believes that adequate reserves have been recognized, and final settlement of these audits is not expected to have a material adverse effect on FES financial condition or results of operations.
6.  POWER SUPPLY AGREEMENTS WITH REGULATED AFFILIATES
 
Met-Ed and Penelec have been purchasing a portion of their PLR requirements from FES through a partial requirements wholesale power sales agreement and various amendments. Under these agreements, FES retained the supply obligation and the supply profit and loss risk for the portion of power supply requirements not self-supplied by Met-Ed and Penelec. The FES agreements have reduced Met-Ed's and Penelec's exposure to high wholesale power prices by providing power at a fixed price for their uncommitted PLR capacity and energy costs during the term of these agreements with FES.
On April 7, 2006, the parties entered into a tolling agreement that arose from FES notice to Met-Ed and Penelec that FES elected to exercise its right to terminate the partial requirements agreement effective midnight December 31, 2006. On November 29, 2006, Met-Ed, Penelec and FES agreed to suspend the April 7 tolling agreement pending resolution of the PPUCs proceedings regarding the Met-Ed and Penelec comprehensive transition rate cases filed April 10, 2006. Separately, on September 26, 2006, Met-Ed and Penelec successfully conducted a competitive RFP for a portion of their PLR obligation for the period December 1, 2006 through December 31, 2008. FES was one of the successful bidders in that RFP process and on September 26, 2006 entered into a supplier master agreement to supply a certain portion of Met-Eds and Penelecs PLR requirements at market prices that substantially exceed the fixed price in the partial requirements agreements.
Based on the outcome of the 2006 comprehensive transition rate filing, Met-Ed, Penelec and FES agreed to restate the partial requirements power sales agreement effective January 1, 2007. The restated agreement incorporates the same fixed price for residual capacity and energy supplied by FES as in the prior arrangements between the parties, and automatically extends for successive one year terms unless any party gives 60 days notice prior to the end of the year. The restated agreement allows Met-Ed and Penelec to sell the output of NUG generation to the market and requires FES to provide energy at fixed prices to replace any NUG energy thus sold to the extent needed for Met-Ed and Penelec to satisfy their PLR obligations. The parties have also separately terminated the tolling, suspension and supplier master agreements in connection with the restatement of the partial requirements agreement. Accordingly, the energy that would have been supplied under the supplier master agreement will now be provided under the restated partial requirements agreement.
18
As a result of Penns PLR competitive solicitation process approved by the PPUC for the period January 1, 2007 through May 31, 2008, FES was selected as the winning bidder for a number of the tranches for individual customer classes. The balance of the tranches is supplied by unaffiliated power suppliers. On October 2, 2006, FES filed an application with the FERC under Section 205 of the Federal Power Act for authorization to make these affiliate sales to Penn. This filing was accepted by the FERC on November 15, 2006, and no request for rehearing was filed.
7.  COMMITMENTS, GUARANTEES AND CONTINGENCIES
(A)         ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS
Various federal, state and local authorities regulate FirstEnergy, FES and their respective subsidiaries with regard to air and water quality and other environmental matters. The effects of compliance on FES with regard to environmental matters could have a material adverse effect on its earnings and competitive position to the extent that it competes with companies that are not subject to such regulations and therefore do not bear the risk of costs associated with compliance, or failure to comply, with such regulations. Overall, FES believes it is in compliance with existing regulations but is unable to predict future changes in regulatory policies and what, if any, the effects of such changes would be. FES estimates additional capital expenditures for environmental compliance of approximately $1.8 billion for 2007 through 2011.
FES accrues environmental liabilities only when it concludes that it is probable that it has an obligation for such costs and can reasonably estimate the amount of such costs. Unasserted claims are reflected in FES determination of environmental liabilities and are accrued in the period that they become both probable and reasonably estimable.
Clean Air Act Compliance
FES is required to meet federally-approved SO emissions regulations. Violations of such regulations can result in shutdown of the generating unit involved and/or civil or criminal penalties of up to $32,500 for each day the unit is in violation. The EPA has an interim enforcement policy for SO regulations in Ohio that allows for compliance based on a 30-day averaging period. FES believes it is currently in compliance with this policy, but cannot predict what action the EPA may take in the future with respect to the interim enforcement policy.
2
2
The EPA Region 5 issued a Finding of Violation and NOV to the Bay Shore Power Plant dated June 15, 2006 alleging violations to various sections of the Clean Air Act. FES has disputed those alleged violations based on its Clean Air Act permit, the Ohio SIP and other information provided at an August 2006 meeting with the EPA. The EPA has several enforcement options (administrative compliance order, administrative penalty order, and/or judicial, civil or criminal action) and has indicated that such option may depend on the time needed to achieve and demonstrate compliance with the rules alleged to have been violated. TE, an affiliated company, owned the Bay Shore Power Plant at the time of the alleged violation.  FES now owns and operates the plant.
FES complies with SO reduction requirements under the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990 by burning lower-sulfur fuel, generating more electricity from lower-emitting plants, and/or using emission allowances. NO reductions required by the 1990 Amendments are being achieved through combustion controls and the generation of more electricity at lower-emitting plants. In September 1998, the EPA finalized regulations requiring additional NO reductions at FES' facilities. The EPA's NO Transport Rule imposes uniform reductions of NO emissions (an approximate 85% reduction in utility plant NO emissions from projected 2007 emissions) across a region of nineteen states (including Michigan, New Jersey, Ohio and Pennsylvania) and the District of Columbia based on a conclusion that such NO emissions are contributing significantly to ozone levels in the eastern United States. FES believes its facilities are also complying with the NO budgets established under SIPs through combustion controls and post-combustion controls, including Selective Catalytic Reduction and Selective Non-Catalytic Reduction systems, and/or using emission allowances.
2
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
 
On May 22, 2007, FirstEnergy and FGCO received a notice letter, required 60 days prior to the filing of a citizen suit under the federal Clean Air Act, alleging violations of air pollution laws at the Mansfield Plant, including opacity limitations. Prior to the receipt of this notice, the Mansfield Plant was subject to a Consent Order and Agreement with the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection concerning opacity emissions under which efforts to achieve compliance with the applicable laws will continue.
19
National Ambient Air Quality Standards
In July 1997, the EPA promulgated changes in the NAAQS for ozone and fine particulate matter. In March 2005, the EPA finalized the CAIR covering a total of 28 states (including Michigan, New Jersey, Ohio and Pennsylvania) and the District of Columbia based on proposed findings that air emissions from 28 eastern states and the District of Columbia significantly contribute to non-attainment of the NAAQS for fine particles and/or the "8-hour" ozone NAAQS in other states. CAIR provided each affected state until 2006 to develop implementing regulations to achieve additional reductions of NO and SO emissions in two phases (Phase I in 2009 for NO, 2010 for SO and Phase II in 2015 for both NO and SO). FES Michigan, Ohio and Pennsylvania fossil-fired generation facilities will be subject to caps on SO and NO emissions. According to the EPA, SO emissions will be reduced by 45% (from 2003 levels) by 2010 across the states covered by the rule, with reductions reaching 73% (from 2003 levels) by 2015, capping SO emissions in affected states to just 2.5 million tons annually. NO emissions will be reduced by 53% (from 2003 levels) by 2009 across the states covered by the rule, with reductions reaching 61% (from 2003 levels) by 2015, achieving a regional NO cap of 1.3 million tons annually. The future cost of compliance with these regulations may be substantial and will depend on how they are ultimately implemented by the states in which FES operates affected facilities.
X
2
X
2
X
2
2
X
2
2
X
X
Mercury Emissions
In December 2000, the EPA announced it would proceed with the development of regulations regarding hazardous air pollutants from electric power plants, identifying mercury as the hazardous air pollutant of greatest concern. In March 2005, the EPA finalized the CAMR, which provides a cap-and-trade program to reduce mercury emissions from coal-fired power plants in two phases. Initially, mercury emissions will be capped nationally at 38 tons by 2010 (as a "co-benefit" from implementation of SO and NO emission caps under the EPA's CAIR program). Phase II of the mercury cap-and-trade program will cap nationwide mercury emissions from coal-fired power plants at 15 tons per year by 2018. However, the final rules give states substantial discretion in developing rules to implement these programs. In addition, both the CAIR and the CAMR have been challenged in the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia. FES future cost of compliance with these regulations may be substantial and will depend on how they are ultimately implemented by the states in which FES operates affected facilities.
2
X
The model rules for both CAIR and CAMR contemplate an input-based methodology to allocate allowances to affected facilities. Under this approach, allowances would be allocated based on the amount of fuel consumed by the affected sources. FES would prefer an output-based generation-neutral methodology in which allowances are allocated based on megawatts of power produced, allowing new and non-emitting generating facilities (including renewables and nuclear) to be entitled to their proportionate share of the allowances. Consequently, FES will be disadvantaged if these model rules were implemented as proposed because FES substantial reliance on non-emitting (largely nuclear) generation is not recognized under the input-based allocation.
Pennsylvania has submitted a new mercury rule for EPA approval that does not provide a cap and trade approach as in the CAMR, but rather follows a command and control approach imposing emission limits on individual sources. Pennsylvanias mercury regulation would deprive FES of mercury emission allowances that were to be allocated to the Mansfield Plant under the CAMR and that would otherwise be available for achieving FES system-wide compliance. It is anticipated that compliance with these regulations, if approved by the EPA and implemented, would not require the addition of mercury controls at Mansfield, FES only Pennsylvania power plant, until 2015, if at all.
W. H. Sammis Plant
In 1999 and 2000, the EPA issued NOV or compliance orders to nine utilities alleging violations of the Clean Air Act based on operation and maintenance of 44 power plants, including the W. H. Sammis Plant, which was owned at that time by OE and Penn, and is now owned by FGCO. In addition, the DOJ filed eight civil complaints against various investor-owned utilities, including a complaint against OE and Penn in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Ohio. These cases are referred to as the New Source Review cases.
On March 18, 2005, OE and Penn announced that they had reached a settlement with the EPA, the DOJ and three states (Connecticut, New Jersey, and New York) that resolved all issues related to the New Source Review litigation. This settlement agreement, which is in the form of a consent decree, was approved by the Court on July 11, 2005, and requires reductions of NO and SO emissions at the W. H. Sammis Plant and other FES coal-fired plants through the installation of pollution control devices and provides for stipulated penalties for failure to install and operate such pollution controls in accordance with that agreement. Consequently, if FirstEnergy fails to install such pollution control devices, for any reason, including, but not limited to, the failure of any third-party contractor to timely meet its delivery obligations for such devices, FGCO and its affiliates, OE and Penn, could be exposed to penalties under the Sammis NSR Litigation consent decree. Capital expenditures necessary to complete requirements of the Sammis NSR Litigation are currently estimated to be $1.5 billion ($400 million of which is expected to be spent in 2007, with the largest portion of the remaining $1.1 billion expected to be spent in 2008 and 2009).
X
2
20
The Sammis NSR Litigation consent decree also requires FGCO and its affiliates, OE and Penn, to spend up to $25 million toward environmentally beneficial projects, $14 million of which is satisfied by entering into 93 MW (or 23 MW if federal tax credits are not applicable) of wind energy purchased power agreements with a 20-year term. An initial 16 MW of the 93 MW consent decree obligation was satisfied during 2006.
On August 26, 2005, FGCO entered into an agreement with Bechtel Power Corporation under which Bechtel will engineer, procure, and construct air quality control systems for the reduction of SO emissions. FGCO also entered into an agreement with B&W on August 25, 2006 to supply flue gas desulfurization systems for the reduction of SO emissions. SCR systems for the reduction of NOx emissions also are being installed at the W.H. Sammis Plant under a 1999 agreement with B&W.
2
2
Climate Change
In December 1997, delegates to the United Nations' climate summit in Japan adopted an agreement, the Kyoto Protocol, to address global warming by reducing the amount of man-made GHG emitted by developed countries by 5.2% from 1990 levels between 2008 and 2012. The United States signed the Kyoto Protocol in 1998 but it failed to receive the two-thirds vote required for ratification by the United States Senate. However, the Bush administration has committed the United States to a voluntary climate change strategy to reduce domestic GHG intensity  the ratio of emissions to economic output  by 18% through 2012. At the international level, efforts have begun to develop climate change agreements for post-2012 GHG reductions. The EPACT established a Committee on Climate Change Technology to coordinate federal climate change activities and promote the development and deployment of GHG reducing technologies.
At the federal level, members of Congress have introduced several bills seeking to reduce emissions of GHG in the United States.  State activities, primarily the northeastern states participating in the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative and western states led by California, have coordinated efforts to develop regional strategies to control emissions of certain GHGs.
On April 2, 2007, the United States Supreme Court found that the EPA has the authority to regulate CO emissions from automobiles as air pollutants under the Clean Air Act. Although this decision did not address CO emissions from electric generating plants, the EPA has similar authority under the Clean Air Act to regulate air pollutants from those and other facilities.
2
2
FES cannot currently estimate the financial impact of climate change policies, although potential legislative or regulatory programs restricting CO emissions could require significant capital and other expenditures. The CO emissions per KWH of electricity generated by FES is lower than many regional competitors due to its diversified generation sources, which include low or non-CO emitting gas-fired and nuclear generators.
2
2
2
Clean Water Act
Various water quality regulations, the majority of which are the result of the federal Clean Water Act and its amendments, apply to FES' plants. In addition, Ohio, New Jersey and Pennsylvania have water quality standards applicable to FES operations. As provided in the Clean Water Act, authority to grant federal National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System water discharge permits can be assumed by a state. Ohio, New Jersey and Pennsylvania have assumed such authority.
On September 7, 2004, the EPA established new performance standards under Section 316(b) of the Clean Water Act for reducing impacts on fish and shellfish from cooling water intake structures at certain existing large electric generating plants. The regulations call for reductions in impingement mortality, when aquatic organisms are pinned against screens or other parts of a cooling water intake system, and entrainment, which occurs when aquatic life is drawn into a facility's cooling water system. On January 26, 2007, the federal Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit remanded portions of the rulemaking dealing with impingement mortality and entrainment back to EPA for further rulemaking and eliminated the restoration option from EPAs regulations.  FES is conducting comprehensive demonstration studies, due in 2008, to determine the operational measures or equipment, if any, necessary for compliance by its facilities with the performance standards. FES is unable to predict the outcome of such studies or changes in these requirements from the remand to EPA. Depending on the outcome of such studies and EPAs further rulemaking, the future cost of compliance with these standards may require material capital expenditures.
21
Regulation of Hazardous Waste
As a result of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976, as amended, and the Toxic Substances Control Act of 1976, federal and state hazardous waste regulations have been promulgated. Certain fossil fuel combustion waste products, such as coal ash, were exempted from hazardous waste disposal requirements pending the EPA's evaluation of the need for future regulation. The EPA subsequently determined that regulation of coal ash as a hazardous waste is unnecessary. In April 2000, the EPA announced that it will develop national standards regulating disposal of coal ash under its authority to regulate nonhazardous waste.
Under NRC regulations, FES and its affiliates, OE and TE, must ensure that adequate funds will be available to decommission their nuclear facilities in proportion to their respective ownership or leased interest in the nuclear units. As of March 31, 2007, NGC had approximately $1.3 billion invested in external trusts to be used for the decommissioning and environmental remediation of Davis-Besse, Beaver Valley and Perry. As part of the application to the NRC to transfer the ownership of these nuclear facilities to NGC, FirstEnergy agreed to contribute another $80 million to these trusts by 2010; $63 million of which has been recognized as a note receivable from Penn on FES Consolidated Balance Sheet. Consistent with NRC guidance, utilizing a real rate of return on these funds of approximately 2% over inflation, these trusts are expected to exceed the minimum decommissioning funding requirements set by the NRC. Conservatively, these estimates do not include any rate of return that the trusts may earn over the 20-year plant useful life extensions that FirstEnergy plans to seek for these facilities.
(B)                 OTHER LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
Nuclear Plant Matters
On August 12, 2004, the NRC notified FENOC that it would increase its regulatory oversight of the Perry Nuclear Power Plant as a result of problems with safety system equipment over the preceding two years and the licensee's failure to take prompt and corrective action. On April 4, 2005, the NRC held a public meeting to discuss FENOCs performance at the Perry Nuclear Power Plant as identified in the NRC's annual assessment letter to FENOC. Similar public meetings are held with all nuclear power plant licensees following issuance by the NRC of their annual assessments. According to the NRC, overall the Perry Nuclear Power Plant operated "in a manner that preserved public health and safety" even though it remained under heightened NRC oversight. During the public meeting and in the annual assessment, the NRC indicated that additional inspections will continue and that the plant must improve performance to be removed from the Multiple/Repetitive Degraded Cornerstone Column of the Action Matrix.
On September 28, 2005, the NRC sent a CAL to FENOC describing commitments that FENOC had made to improve the performance at the Perry Nuclear Power Plant and stated that the CAL would remain open until substantial improvement was demonstrated. The CAL was anticipated as part of the NRC's Reactor Oversight Process. By two letters dated March 2, 2007, the NRC closed the Confirmatory Action Letter commitments for Perry, the two outstanding white findings, and crosscutting issues.  Moreover, the NRC removed Perry from the Multiple Degraded Cornerstone Column of the NRC Action Matrix and placed the plant in the Licensee Response Column (routine agency oversight).
On April 30, 2007, the Union of Concerned Scientists (UCS) filed a petition with the NRC under Section 2.206 of the NRCs regulations based on an expert witness report that FENOC developed for an unrelated insurance arbitration.  In December 2006, the expert witnesses for FENOC prepared a report that analyzed the crack growth rates in control rod drive mechanism penetrations and wastage of the former reactor pressure vessel head at Davis-Besse. Citing the findings in the expert witnesses' report, the Section 2.206 petition requested that: (1) Davis-Besse be immediately shut down; (2) that the NRC conduct an independent review of the consultant's report and that all pressurized water reactors be shut down until remedial actions can be implemented; and (3) that Davis-Besses operating license be revoked.
In a letter dated May 4, 2007, the NRC stated that "the current inspection requirements are sufficient to detect degradation of a reactor pressure vessel head penetration nozzles prior to the development of significant head wastage even if the assumptions and conclusions in the [expert witness] report relating to the wastage of the head at Davis-Besse were applied to all pressurized water reactors."  The NRC also indicated that while they are developing a more complete response to the UCS' petition, the staff informed UCS that, as an initial matter, it has determined that no immediate action with respect to Davis-Besse or other nuclear plant is warranted. On May 14, 2007, the Office of Enforcement of the NRC issued a Demand for Information to FENOC   The NRC indicated that this information is needed for the NRC to determine whether an Order or other action should be taken pursuant to 10 CFR 2.202, to provide reasonable assurance that FENOC will continue to operate its licensed facilities in accordance with the terms of its licenses and the Commissions regulations.  FENOC was directed to submit the information to the NRC within 30 days.  FENOC intends to comply with this Demand for Information. FirstEnergy can provide no assurances as to the ultimate resolution of this matter.
following FENOCs reply to an April 2, 2007 NRC request for information about the expert witnesses report.
22
Other Legal Matters
There are various lawsuits, claims (including claims for asbestos exposure) and proceedings related to FES normal business operations pending against FES and its subsidiaries, the most significant of which are described above.
If it were ultimately determined that FES or its subsidiaries have legal liability or are otherwise made subject to liability based on the above matters, it could have a material adverse effect on FES or its subsidiaries' financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.
 
8.  NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS AND INTERPRETATIONS
 
 
In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS 159, which provides companies with an option to report selected financial assets and liabilities at fair value. The Standard requires companies to provide additional information that will help investors and other users of financial statements to more easily understand the effect of the companys choice to use fair value on its earnings. The Standard also requires companies to display the fair value of those assets and liabilities for which the company has chosen to use fair value on the face of the balance sheet. This guidance does not eliminate disclosure requirements included in other accounting standards, including requirements for disclosures about fair value measurements included in SFAS 157and SFAS 107This Statement is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007, and interim periods within those years. FES is currently evaluating the impact of this Statement on its financial statements.
 
.
SFAS 157  Fair Value Measurements
In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS 157 that establishes how companies should measure fair value when they are required to use a fair value measure for recognition or disclosure purposes under GAAP. This Statement addresses the need for increased consistency and comparability in fair value measurements and for expanded disclosures about fair value measurements. The key changes to current practice are: (1) the definition of fair value which focuses on an exit price rather than entry price; (2) the methods used to measure fair value such as emphasis that fair value is a market-based measurement, not an entity-specific measurement, as well as the inclusion of an adjustment for risk, restrictions and credit standing; and (3) the expanded disclosures about fair value measurements. This Statement is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007, and interim periods within those years. FES is currently evaluating the impact of this Statement on its financial statements.
EITF 06-10  Accounting for Deferred Compensation and Postretirement Benefit Aspects of Collateral
Split-Dollar Life Insurance Arrangements
In March 2007, the EITF reached a final consensus on Issue 06-10 concluding that an employer should recognize a liability for the postretirement obligation associated with a collateral assignment split-dollar life insurance arrangement if, based on the substantive arrangement with the employee, the employer has agreed to maintain a life insurance policy during the employees retirement or provide the employee with a death benefit. The liability should be recognized in accordance with SFAS 106if, in substance, a postretirement plan exists or APB 12 if the arrangement is, in substance, an individual deferred compensation contract.  The EITF also reached a consensus that the employer should recognize and measure the associated asset on the basis of the terms of the collateral assignment arrangement. This pronouncement is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2007, including interim periods within those years. FES does not expect this pronouncement to have a material impact on its financial statements.
 
23


