FILE:FE/FE-8K-20070607082508.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2.):
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
1
 
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
On June 7, 2007, FirstEnergy Corp.s Ohio utility subsidiaries, Ohio Edison Company, The Cleveland Electric Illuminating Company and The Toledo Edison Company, filed with the Public Utilities Commission of Ohio the details of their base distribution rate increase request and supporting testimon
y. FirstEnergy provided related information in a Letter to the Investment Community, which is furnished, not filed, as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference hereunder.
 Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
Forward-Looking Statements:
This Form 8-K includes forward-looking statements based on information currently available to management. Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. These statements typically contain, but are not limited to, the terms anticipate, potential, expect, believe, estimate and similar words. Actual results may differ materially due to the speed and nature of increased competition and deregulation in the electric utility industry, economic or weather conditions affecting future sales and margins, changes in markets for energy services, changing energy and commodity market prices, replacement power costs being higher than anticipated or inadequately hedged, the continued ability of FirstEnergys regulated utilities to collect transition and other charges or to recover increased transmission costs, maintenance costs being higher than anticipated, legislative and regulatory changes (including revised environmental requirements), and the legal and regulatory changes resulting from the implementation of the
Energy Policy Act of 2005
(including, but not limited to, the repeal of the
Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935
), the uncertainty of the timing and amounts of the capital expenditures needed to, among other things, implement the Air Quality Compliance Plan (including that such amounts could be higher than anticipated) or levels of emission reductions related to the Consent Decree resolving the New Source Review litigation, adverse regulatory or legal decisions and outcomes (including, but not limited to, the revocation of necessary licenses or operating permits and oversight) by the
Nuclear Regulatory Commission
 
(including, but not limited to, the Demand for Information issued to FENOC on May 14, 2007)
and the various state public utility commissions as disclosed in the registrants
Securities and Exchange Commission
filings, the timing and outcome of various proceedings before the
Public Utilities Commission of Ohio
(including, but not limited to, the Distribution Rate Cases for the Ohio Companies, the successful resolution of the issues remanded to the
Public Utilities Commission of Ohio
by the Ohio Supreme Court regarding the Rate Stabilization Plan) and the
Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission
(including the transition rate plan filings for Met-Ed and Penelec and Penns Default Service Plan filing), the continuing availability and operation of generating units, the ability of generating units to continue to operate at, or near full capacity, the inability to accomplish or realize anticipated benefits from strategic goals (including employee workforce initiatives), the anticipated benefits from voluntary pension plan contributions, the ability to improve electric commodity margins and to experience growth in the distribution business, the ability to access the public securities and other capital markets and the cost of such capital, the outcome, cost and other effects of present and potential legal and administrative proceedings and claims related to the August 14, 2003 regional power outage, the successful structuring and completion of a potential sale and leaseback transaction for Bruce Mansfield Unit 1 currently under consideration by management, any purchase price adjustment under the accelerated share repurchase program announced March 2, 2007, the risks and other factors discussed from time to time in the registrants
Securities and Exchange Commission
filings, and other similar factors.  The registrants expressly disclaim any current intention to update any forward-looking statements contained herein as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
 
2
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
June 7, 2007
 
 
 
3
 

 
 
  Exhibit 99.1
 
                                                                                                         
 
  Ronald E. Seeholzer
Vice President
Investor Relations
FirstEnergy Corp.
76 S. Main Street
Akron, Ohio 44308
Tel 330-384-5783
June 7, 2007
TO THE INVESTMENT COMMUNITY:
1
Today, FirstEnergy Corp.s Ohio utility subsidiaries Ohio Edison Company (OE), The Cleveland Electric Illuminating Company (CEI), and The Toledo Edison Company (TE), (collectively, the Ohio Companies) filed with the Public Utilities Commission of Ohio (PUCO) the details of their base distribution rate increase request and supporting testimony (Case No.07-551-EL-AIR).  A PUCO decision is expected early next year.  The new rates would be effective January 1, 2009, for OE and TE customers, and are expected to be effective in May 2009 for CEI customers. This letter provides additional details about todays filings as well as some supplemental information.
Overview of Distribution Rate Cases
In their Application for Increase in Rates (Application), the Ohio Companies are requesting an increase in annualized distribution revenues totaling $340 million to recover expenses related to distribution operations ($217 million) and the costs deferred under previously approved rate plans described below ($123 million).  As filed, the requested distribution rates would produce $162 million, or 8%, in additional annualized revenue for OE; $107 million, or 6%, in additional annualized revenue for CEI; and $71 million, or 9% for TE.
Included in this filing is a request for the following accounting modifications to be implemented concurrently with the effective date of the Application:
 
Although not part of the Application, the Ohio Companies will reduce or eliminate their Regulatory Transition Charge (RTC) rates concurrent with the effective dates of the proposed distribution rate increases. For OE and TE, the RTC rates will be eliminated and for CEI there will be a reduction of about 30% in the RTC rate. The RTC for CEI will continue at this reduced level through 2010 and then cease.
 
 
Please see the forward-looking statements at the end of this letter.
1
1
 
As summarized below, the combined effect of the requested distribution rate increases and RTC rate reduction or eliminations is expected to be a net reduction of $254 million on the regulated portion of customer bills.  The Application does not request any changes to the generation or transmission charges contained in the Ohio Companies tariffs.
    *Assumes current Generation & Transmission rates
Basis for the Distribution Rate Increase
The rate-making process for a change in base distribution rates in Ohio uses the Date Certain and Test Year concepts to measure rate base and operating income, respectively. In its May 30, 2007 Entry, the Commission accepted the Ohio Companies requested Date Certain of May 31, 2007, and Test Year of 12 months ended February 29, 2008.
The distribution rate increase request was made primarily for the following four reasons:
 
2
 
 
The revenue increase for both the ETP transition tax deferrals and the Ohio line extension deferrals reflect Date Certain regulatory asset balances as well as a full return on the balances (including equity), amortized over a period of 5 years.
The estimated RCP, ETP and Line Extension regulatory asset balances are summarized below.
Requested Rate of Return and Rate Base
The Application contains a blended capital structure for the Ohio Companies as the basis for calculating the required rate of return.  The resulting capital structure is 51% long-term debt and 49% common equity.  (The Ohio Companies have no preferred stock outstanding.)  The requested return on equity is 11.75%.  The long-term debt rate (as of March 31, 2007), is 6.47% for OE, 6.65% for CEI, and 6.26% for TE.  The overall requested rate of return is 9.06% for OE, 9.15% for CEI, and 8.95% for TE.
The estimated rate base for each of the Ohio Companies is depicted in the table below.
Amounts shown net of accumulated deferred income taxes
  *
3
Rate Design
The Ohio Companies are proposing the following changes to their tariff designs:
These changes will result in a single tariff schedule for the residential customers of each company.
Update Filing and Rate Case Hearing Process
The Ohio Companies will update the information in todays Initial Filing in an Update Filing to the PUCO no later than August 6, 2007.  The Update Filing will contain three months of actual results for the Test Year (March 1, 2007 through May 31, 2007), nine months of forecasted data and actual plant balances as of May 31, 2007, to establish the test period data used to establish future rates.
It is estimated the PUCO Staff will issue its Report in the case in the fourth quarter of 2007.  Between the issuance of the Staff Report and the evidentiary hearings, all the parties to the case will have the opportunity to submit written testimony.  Hearings in the case are expected in late 2007.  The briefing period is expected to extend into the early 2008 time frame, with a PUCO decision to follow.
The PUCO is required to issue an order in the case 275 days after the Initial Filing, which would be March 9, 2008.  However, the Ohio Companies have agreed pursuant to previously approved rate plans not to put the proposed rates into effect for OE and TE until January 1, 2009 and approximately May 2009 for CEI.
Summary
Todays filing represents a request to increase annual distribution revenues by $340 million beginning in 2009 to recover expenses related to distribution operations and costs deferred under previously approved rate plans.  Although not part of these filings, there also will be a reduction or elimination of RTC rates concurrent with the effective dates of the distribution rate increases.  The combined annual effect of the proposed distribution rate increases and RTC rate changes is expected to be a decrease for customers of $254 million on the regulated portion of their bills.  Please refer to the May 8, 2007, Letter to the Investment Community for details regarding potential impacts on typical customer bills associated with these rate changes.
4
The Ohio Companies currently expect to make an Ohio Generation Procurement Plan filing this summer requesting approval for a competitive bid process to provide generation service to customers beginning January 1, 2009, as provided under Ohios electric choice law.
Supplemental Information
The last adjustments to base distribution rates were in 1990 for OE and 1996 for CEI and TE. Since those proceedings, the Ohio Companies have been granted the authority to defer and capitalize for future recovery certain costs fortransition taxes, lineextensions,electric system infrastructure and reliability, fuel costs, and energy efficiency programs as described below.
 
 
 
On July 19, 2000, the PUCO approved a comprehensive transition plan (ETP Stipulation and Recommendation) allowing the Ohio Companies to defer the amount by which customer rates would have increased above existing rate levels due to tax changes in Senate Bill No. 3.  These transition tax deferrals include capitalized interest based upon each operating companys embedded cost of long-term debt.  In February 2003, the transition tax deferral ceased, however, capitalized interest continues to accrue each month on the deferred balance. These deferrals are proposed to be recovered over a five-year period beginning January 1, 2009, for OE and TE and approximately May 2009 for CEI.
On December 19, 2002, the PUCO approved the Ohio Companies Stipulation and Recommendation in Case No. 01-2708-EL-COI allowing the creation of regulatory assets to recover certain new line extension costs not otherwise recovered from customers beginning January 1, 2001. These deferrals are proposed to be recovered over a five-year period beginning January 1, 2009 for OE and TE and approximately May 2009 for CEI.
To address concerns of the PUCO regarding rising power prices in an underdeveloped competitive electricity marketplace, the Ohio Companies filed the Rate Stabilization Plan (RSP) on October 21, 2003.  This provided customers with generation price and supply stability through 2008.  Under the RSP, the Ohio Companies maintain the obligation to provide full service to customers through 2008.  The RSP also provided for the continuation of certain rate discounts that would have otherwise expired, implemented various regulatory accounting practices, contained provisions to support customer shopping, and granted the Ohio Companies the opportunity to seek recovery of increased fuel costs.  The Ohio Companies accepted the RSP as approved on August 5, 2004.
On September 9, 2005, to provide increased rate stability, the Ohio Companies proposed the RCP as a supplement to the RSP.  The RCP was intended to provide customers with lower, more certain rate levels through 2008 than would otherwise be available under the RSP.  It also provided the Ohio Companies the opportunity to produce financial results generally comparable to those under the RSP.
On November 4, 2005, the Ohio Companies filed a supplemental stipulation with the PUCO, which constituted an additional component of the original RCP filing. On January 4, 2006, the PUCO approved the RCP with modifications.  On January 31, 2007 the Companies filed a Stipulation (in Case No. 04-1932-EL-ATA) that modified the expected timing of demand side management (DSM) program expenditures under the supplemental stipulation, which was approved by the PUCO on February 14, 2007.
5
Major provisions of the RCP include:
 
 
6
 
The Supplemental Stipulation with various parties included:
Upcoming FirstEnergy Investor Events
Lehman Brothers 2007 Fall CEO Energy/ Power Conference
September 4-6, 2007
New York, NY
Merrill Lynch Global Power and Gas Leaders Conference
September 25-26, 2007
New York, NY
Edison Electric Institute (EEI) Financial Conference
November 4-7, 2007
Orlando, FL
FirstEnergy Annual Analyst Meeting
December 6, 2007
New York, NY
If you have any questions concerning information in this update, please call Kurt Turosky, Director of Investor Relations, at (330) 384-5500, or me at (330) 384-5783.
Sincerely,
Ronald E. Seeholzer
Vice President  Investor Relations
7
This investor letter includes forward-looking statements based on information currently available to management. Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. These statements typically contain, but are not limited to, the terms anticipate, potential, expect, believe, estimate and similar words. Actual results may differ materially due to the speed and nature of increased competition and deregulation in the electric utility industry, economic or weather conditions affecting future sales and margins, changes in markets for energy services, changing energy and commodity market prices, replacement power costs being higher than anticipated or inadequately hedged, the continued ability of FirstEnergys regulated utilities to collect transition and other charges or to recover increased transmission costs, maintenance costs being higher than anticipated, legislative and regulatory changes (including revised environmental requirements), and the legal and regulatory changes resulting from the implementation of the EPACT (including, but not limited to, the repeal of the PUHCA), the uncertainty of the timing and amounts of the capital expenditures needed to, among other things, implement the Air Quality Compliance Plan (including that such amounts could be higher than anticipated) or levels of emission reductions related to the Consent Decree resolving the New Source Review litigation, adverse regulatory or legal decisions and outcomes (including, but not limited to, the revocation of necessary licenses or operating permits and oversight) by the NRC and the various state public utility commissions as disclosed in FirstEnergys SEC filings, the timing and outcome of various proceedings before the PUCO (including, but not limited to, the Distribution Rate Cases for the Ohio Companies and the successful resolution of the issues remanded to the PUCO by the Ohio Supreme Court regarding the Rate Stablization Plan) and the PPUC (including the transition rate plan filings for Met-Ed and Penelec and Penns Default Service Plan filing), the continuing availability and operation of generating units, the ability of generating units to continue to operate at, or near full capacity, the inability to accomplish or realize anticipated benefits from strategic goals (including employee workforce initiatives), the anticipated benefits from voluntary pension plan contributions, the ability to improve electric commodity margins and to experience growth in the distribution business, the ability to access the public securities and other capital markets and the cost of such capital, the outcome, cost and other effects of present and potential legal and administrative proceedings and claims related to the August 14, 2003 regional power outage, the successful structuring and completion of a potential sale and leaseback transaction for Bruce Mansfield Unit 1 currently under consideration by management, any purchase price adjustment under the accelerated share repurchase program announced March 2, 2007, the risks and other factors discussed from time to time in FirstEnergys SEC filings, and other similar factors.  FirstEnergy expressly disclaims any current intention to update any forward-looking statements contained herein as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
 
(including, but not limited to, the Demand for Information issued to FENOC on May 14, 2007)
 
8


