FILE:FE/FE-8K-20070503110235.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2.):
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
1
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On May 3, 2007, FirstEnergy Corp. issued two public announcements, which are attached as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 hereto and incorporated by reference. FirstEnergy's Consolidated Report to the Financial Community contains a non-GAAP* financial measure. Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, FirstEnergy has provided a quantitative reconciliation within the Consolidated Report to the Financial Community of the non-GAAP* financial measure to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure.
The Consolidated Report to the Financial Community includes normalized earnings per share, which is not calculated in accordance with GAAP because it excludes the impact of "special items." Special items reflect the impact on earnings of events that are not routine or that may be related to discontinued businesses. Management believes presenting normalized earnings calculated in this manner provides useful information to investors in evaluating the ongoing results of FirstEnergy's businesses and assists investors in comparing the company's operating performance to the operating performance of other companies in the energy sector. Management believes presenting this non-GAAP* measure provides useful information to investors in assessing FirstEnergy's normalized operating performance. FirstEnergy's management frequently references this non-GAAP* financial measure in its decision-making, using it to facilitate historical and ongoing performance comparisons as well as comparisons to the performance of peer companies.
The non-GAAP* information presented in the Consolidated Report to the Financial Community should be considered in addition to, and not as a substitute for, the most directly comparable financial measure prepared in accordance with GAAP. Also, the non-GAAP* financial measure may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other entities.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits.
*This Form 8-K contains a non-GAAP financial measure. Generally, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a company's historical or future financial performance, financial position, or cash flows that either excludes or includes amounts, or is subject to adjustment that have the effect of excluding or including amounts, that are not normally excluded or included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, or GAAP.
2
Forward-Looking Statements:
This Form 8-K includes forward-looking statements based on information currently available to management. Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. These statements typically contain, but are not limited to, the terms anticipate, potential, expect, believe, estimate and similar words. Actual results may differ materially due to the speed and nature of increased competition and deregulation in the electric utility industry, economic or weather conditions affecting future sales and margins, changes in markets for energy services, changing energy and commodity market prices, replacement power costs being higher than anticipated or inadequately hedged, the continued ability of FirstEnergys regulated utilities to collect transition and other charges or to recover increased transmission costs, maintenance costs being higher than anticipated, legislative and regulatory changes (including revised environmental requirements), and the legal and regulatory changes resulting from the implementation of the
Energy Policy Act of 2005
(including, but not limited to, the repeal of the
Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935
), the uncertainty of the timing and amounts of the capital expenditures needed to, among other things, implement the Air Quality Compliance Plan (including that such amounts could be higher than anticipated) or levels of emission reductions related to the Consent Decree resolving the New Source Review litigation, adverse regulatory or legal decisions and outcomes (including, but not limited to, the revocation of necessary licenses or operating permits and oversight) by the
Nuclear Regulatory Commission
and the various state public utility commissions as disclosed in the registrants
Securities and Exchange Commission
filings, the timing and outcome of various proceedings before the
Public Utilities Commission of Ohio
(including, but not limited to, the successful resolution of the issues remanded to the
Public Utilities Commission of Ohio
by the Ohio Supreme Court regarding the Rate Stabilization Plan) and the
Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission
(including the transition rate plan filings for Met-Ed and Penelec and Penns Default Service Plan filing), the continuing availability and operation of generating units, the ability of generating units to continue to operate at, or near full capacity, the inability to accomplish or realize anticipated benefits from strategic goals (including employee workforce initiatives), the anticipated benefits from voluntary pension plan contributions, the ability to improve electric commodity margins and to experience growth in the distribution business, the ability to access the public securities and other capital markets and the cost of such capital, the outcome, cost and other effects of present and potential legal and administrative proceedings and claims related to the August 14, 2003 regional power outage, the successful structuring and completion of a potential sale and leaseback transaction for Bruce Mansfield Unit 1 currently under consideration by management, any purchase price adjustment under the accelerated share repurchase program announced March 2, 2007, the risks and other factors discussed from time to time in the registrants
Securities and Exchange Commission
filings, and other similar factors. Also, a security rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities, and it may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time and each such rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. The registrant expressly disclaims any current intention to update any forward-looking statements contained herein as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
 
 
 
3
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
May 3, 2007
 
 
4

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
 
 
 
Akron, Ohio - FirstEnergy Corp. (NYSE: FE) today reported a 37-percent increase in basic and diluted earnings per share of common stock, to $0.92 per share, on net income of $290 million in the first quarter of 2007. Last year, net income was
$221 million, or basic and diluted earnings of $0.67 per common share, in the first quarter. Revenue for the first quarter of 2007 was $2.97 billion, up from $2.71 billion in the first quarter of 2006.
 
Our strong first quarter results reflect our continued solid financial and operational performance, said President and Chief Executive Officer Anthony J. Alexander. I am especially pleased that our strategy of investing in our utility distribution systems continues to deliver improved reliability for our customers.
 
As a result of these investments, as well as milder weather in the region last year,
one-half million fewer customers experienced outages in 2006 than in 2005, and the average duration dropped by nearly 20 percent. That trend continued in the first quarter with a 27-percent reduction in the number of customers affected compared to the 2006 period, and a 43-percent decrease in the duration.
 
First quarter earnings were enhanced by an after-tax benefit of $0.05 per common share from new regulatory assets authorized in January by the Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission. That benefit was partially offset by an after-tax charge of $0.01 per common share related to the impairment of securities held in trust for future nuclear deommissioning activities.
 
 
 
 
Net income also benefited from higher electric sales revenue and reduced operating costs. Earnings per share reflected the positive effect of repurchase programs implemented in August 2006 and March 2007, which reduced the number of common shares outstanding by 7.6 percent.
 
Sales of the companys primary products - electric generation and delivery services - increased in the first quarter of 2007 compared with the prior year period. With electricity sales to the retail sector increasing by 4.8 percent, and sales to the wholesale sector down 6.6 percent, total electric generation sales were up 2.9 percent in 2007 compared with the first quarter of 2006. Kilowatt-hour deliveries to customers through our utility subsidiaries distribution systems increased by 3.9 percent in the first quarter of 2007.
 
FirstEnergys
Consolidated Report to the Financial Community,
which provides highlights on developments and financial results for the first quarter of 2007, is posted on the companys Internet site -
www.firstenergycorp.com/i
r
.
To access the report, click on
Consolidated Report to the Financial Community
.
 
The company invites investors, customers and other interested parties to listen to a live Internet Webcast of its teleconference for financial analysts at 1:00 p.m. Eastern Daylight Time today. FirstEnergy management will present an overview of the company's financial results for the quarter, followed by a question-and-answer session. The
teleconference can be accessed on the companys Web site by selecting the
Q1 2007 Earnings Conference Call
link. Access to the Webcast requires RealPlayer 8 and at least a 14.4 kbps connection to the Internet. RealPlayer 8 basic software is downloadable free from www.real.com/products/player/index.html, or from FirstEnergy's Web site. The Webcast will be archived on the Web site.
 
2
 
 
FirstEnergy is a diversified energy company headquartered in Akron, Ohio. Its subsidiaries and affiliates are involved in the generation, transmission and distribution of electricity, as well as energy management and other energy-related services. Its seven electric utility operating companies comprise the nations fifth largest investor-owned electric system, based on 4.5 million customers served within a 36,100-square-mile area of Ohio, Pennsylvania and New Jersey; and its generation subsidiaries control more than 14,000 megawatts of capacity.
 
Forward-Looking Statements:
This news release includes
forward-looking statements based on information currently available to management. Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. These statements typically contain, but are not limited to, the terms anticipate, potential, expect, believe, estimate and similar words. Actual results may differ materially due to the speed and nature of increased competition and deregulation in the electric utility industry, economic or weather conditions affecting future sales and margins, changes in markets for energy services, changing energy and commodity market prices, replacement power costs being higher than anticipated or inadequately hedged, the continued ability of our regulated utilities to collect transition and other charges or to recover increased transmission costs, maintenance costs being higher than anticipated, legislative and regulatory changes (including revised environmental requirements), and the legal and regulatory changes resulting from the implementation of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (including, but not limited to, the repeal of the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935), the uncertainty of the timing and amounts of the capital expenditures needed to, among other things, implement our Air Quality Compliance Plan (including that such amounts could be higher than anticipated) or levels of emission reductions related to the Consent Decree resolving the New Source Review litigation, adverse regulatory or legal decisions and outcomes (including, but not limited to, the revocation of necessary licenses or operating permits and oversight) by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission and the various state public utility commissions as disclosed in our Securities and Exchange Commission filings, the timing and outcome of various proceedings before the Public Utilities Commission of Ohio (including, but not limited to, the successful resolution of the issues remanded to the PUCO by the Ohio Supreme Court regarding the Rate Stabilization Plan) and the Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission, (including, but not limited to, the transition rate plan filings for Met-Ed and Penelec and the Pennsylvania Power Company Default Service Plan filing), the continuing availability and operation of generating units, the ability of generating units to continue to operate at, or near full capacity, the inability to accomplish or realize anticipated benefits from strategic goals (including employee workforce initiatives), the anticipated benefits from voluntary pension plan contributions, the ability to improve electric commodity margins and to experience growth in the distribution business, the ability to access the public securities and other capital markets and the cost of such capital, the outcome, cost and other effects of present and potential legal and administrative proceedings and claims related to the August 14, 2003, regional power outage, the successful structuring and completion of a potential sale and leaseback transaction for Bruce Mansfield Unit 1 currently under consideration by management, any purchase price adjustment under the accelerated share repurchase program announced March 2, 2007, the risks and other factors discussed from time to time in our Securities and Exchange Commission filings, including our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006, and other similar factors. We expressly disclaim any current intention to update any forward-looking statements contained herein as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
3

EXHIBIT 99.2
Consolidated Report to the Financial Community    
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
First Quarter 2007 
   
(Released May 3, 2007) (Unaudited)      
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
 
 
 
Consolidated Report to the Financial Community - 1st Quarter 2007
1
 
 
2007 Earnings Guidance
 
 
*
The 2007 GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliation statements can be found on page 10 of this report and all GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliation statements are available
on the Investor Information section of FirstEnergy Corp.'s Web site at
www.firstenergycorp.com/ir
.
 
For additional information, please contact:
 
Consolidated Report to the Financial Community - 1st Quarter 2007
2
 
 
 
 
 
Consolidated Report to the Financial Community - 1st Quarter 2007
3
 
 
Consolidated Report to the Financial Community - 1st Quarter 2007
4
 
 
 
 
Consolidated Report to the Financial Community - 1st Quarter 2007
5
 
 
RECENT DEVELOPMENTS
Share Repurchase Programs
On March 2, 2007, FirstEnergy repurchased approximately 14.4 million shares, or 4.5 percent of its outstanding common stock, under an accelerated share repurchase (ASR) agreement with an affiliate of Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated (Morgan Stanley). The initial purchase price was $900 million, or $62.63 per share. The final purchase price will be adjusted to reflect the volume-weighted average price of our stock during the period of time that Morgan Stanley will acquire the shares (up to approximately one year from inception). The ASR was completed under a January 30, 2007, Board of Directors authorization to repurchase up to 16 million shares of outstanding common stock.
On April 2, 2007, an affiliate of J.P. Morgan Securities (J.P. Morgan) completed its acquisition of common shares under FirstEnergys prior ASR program of 10.6 million shares, which was executed in August 2006. In settling the transaction, FirstEnergy paid J.P. Morgan approximately $27 million (direct charge to common stockholders equity) for a purchase price adjustment and true-up of dividends paid on shares that J.P. Morgan had not repurchased as of the respective record dates.
Under the two ASR programs, FirstEnergy has repurchased approximately 25 million common shares, or 8 percent of the total outstanding as of July 2006.
FirstEnergy Solutions Corp. Credit Ratings
On March 26, 2007, Standard & Poors Rating Services (S&P) assigned its corporate credit rating of BBB to FirstEnergy Solutions Corp. (FES), an unregulated subsidiary of FirstEnergy. FES also received an issuer rating of Baa2 from Moodys Investor Services (Moodys) on March 27, 2007. FES is the holding company of FirstEnergy Generation Corp. and FirstEnergy Nuclear Generation Corp., the owners of FirstEnergys fossil and nuclear generation assets, respectively. Both S&P and Moodys cited the strength of FirstEnergys generation portfolio as a key contributor to the investment grade credit ratings. On April 20, 2007, FirstEnergy filed a Form 8-K with the Securities and Exchange Commission furnishing FES audited financial statements for the three years ended December 31, 2006.
The Cleveland Electric Illuminating Company Debt Offering
On March 27, 2007, The Cleveland Electric Illuminating Company (CEI) issued $250 million of 5.70% Senior Notes due 2017. The proceeds from the transaction will be used to meet CEIs 2007 maturing long-term debt obligations of $120 million and to repay short-term borrowings.
NRC Oversight Update
On March 2, 2007, the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) returned FirstEnergys Perry Nuclear Power Plant to routine agency oversight as a result of sufficient corrective actions that have been taken over the last two-and-a-half years. The Perry Plant had been operating under heightened NRC oversight since August 2004.
Refueling Outage at Perry Nuclear Power Plant
FirstEnergys Perry Plant began its regularly scheduled refueling outage on April 2, 2007. Major work activities to be done on the 1,258-megawatt (MW) facility include replacing approximately one-third of the fuel assemblies in the reactor and two of the three low-pressure turbine rotors in the main generator.
Power Uprates
In March 2007, FirstEnergys Beaver Valley Unit 1 completed the final phase of an extended power uprate project to add additional capacity to our system. This is its second power uprate in the past 12 months. Capacity testing will be conducted later this year to verify the actual megawatts gained. This power uprate was achieved in support of FirstEnergys strategy to maximize the full potential of its existing generation assets.
Consolidated Report to the Financial Community - 1st Quarter 2007
11
 
Environmental Update
In March 2007, a selective non-catalytic reduction (SNCR) system was placed in-service at the 597-MW Eastlake Unit 5 upon completion of a scheduled maintenance outage. The SNCR installation is part of FirstEnergys overall Air Quality Compliance Strategy and was required under the New Source Review consent decree. The SNCR is expected to reduce NOx emissions and help achieve reductions required by the EPAs NOx Transport Rule.
Sale and Leaseback of Bruce Mansfield Unit 1
On January 31, 2007, FirstEnergy announced its intention to pursue a sale and leaseback transaction for its owned portion of Bruce Mansfield Unit 1. FirstEnergy anticipates the after-tax proceeds of this proposed transaction to be approximately $1.2 billion. The proceeds are expected to be used to repay short-term borrowings incurred to fund the recently executed ASR program and the recent pension plan contribution. The Company is targeting a second quarter of 2007 closing for the transaction, including related lease debt financing.
Met-Ed and Penelec Rate Transition Plan Update
On January 11, 2007, the Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission (PPUC) issued its order in the Metropolitan Edison (Met-Ed) and Pennsylvania Electric Company (Penelec) Rate Transition Plan cases, approving net T&D rate increases for Met-Ed of 5% ($59 million) and Penelec of 4.5% ($50 million). Several parties to the proceeding, including Met-Ed and Penelec, have filed appeals of the PPUCs decision to the Pennsylvania Commonwealth Court. The companies appealed the Commissions decision on the denial of generation rate relief and on a consolidated income tax adjustment related to cost of capital. The appeals are currently pending.
Met-Ed and Penelec NUG Accounting Case Update
A hearing was held on February 21, 2007, in the Met-Ed and Penelec Non-Utility Generation (NUG) accounting case. Met-Ed and Penelec are seeking to modify the NUG purchased power stranded costs accounting methodology to eliminate reductions of the deferred cost balance during periods in which market prices exceeded NUG payments. The value at issue in this request is estimated to be approximately $40 million for the period 1999 through 2006. Legal briefs were filed in March 2007 and the companies are currently awaiting the Administrative Law Judges Recommended Decision.
Pennsylvania Power Company Default Service Plan
On May 2, 2007, Pennsylvania Power Company (Penn Power) made a filing with the PPUC proposing how it will procure the power supply needed for default service customers beginning June 1, 2008. Penn Power customers transitioned to a fully competitive market on January 1, 2007, and the default service plan that the Commission previously approved covered a 17-month period through May 31, 2008. The filing proposes that Penn Power procure a full requirements product, by class, through multiple Requests for Proposal with staggered delivery periods extending through May 2011. It also proposes a 3-year phase-out of promotional generation rates. The Company expects the Commission to address the filing later this year.
Forward-looking Statements.
 
This Consolidated Report to the Financial Community includes forward-looking statements based on information currently available to management. Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. These statements typically contain, but are not limited to, the terms anticipate, potential, expect, believe, estimate and similar words. Actual results may differ materially due to the speed and nature of increased competition and deregulation in the electric utility industry, economic or weather conditions affecting future sales and margins, changes in markets for energy services, changing energy and commodity market prices, replacement power costs being higher than anticipated or inadequately hedged, the continued ability of our regulated utilities to collect transition and other charges or to recover increased transmission costs, maintenance costs being higher than anticipated, legislative and regulatory changes (including revised environmental requirements), and the legal and regulatory changes resulting from the implementation of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (including, but not limited to, the repeal of the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935), the uncertainty of the timing and amounts of the capital expenditures needed to, among other things, implement the Air Quality Compliance Plan (including that such amounts could be higher than anticipated) or levels of emission reductions related to the Consent Decree resolving the New Source Review litigation, adverse regulatory or legal decisions and outcomes (including, but not limited to, the revocation of necessary licenses or operating permits and oversight) by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission and the various state public utility commissions as disclosed in our Securities and Exchange Commission filings, the timing and outcome of various proceedings before the Public Utilities Commission of Ohio (PUCO) (including, but not limited to, the successful resolution of the issues remanded to the PUCO by the Ohio Supreme Court regarding the Rate Stabilization Plan) and the PPUC (including the transition rate plan filings for Met-Ed and Penelec and the Pennsylvania Power Company Default Service Plan filing), the continuing availability and operation of generating units, the ability of generating units to continue to operate at, or near full capacity, the inability to accomplish or realize anticipated benefits from strategic goals (including employee workforce initiatives), the anticipated benefits from voluntary pension plan contributions, the ability to improve electric commodity margins and to experience growth in the distribution business, the ability to access the public securities and other capital markets and the cost of such capital, the outcome, cost and other effects of present and potential legal and administrative proceedings and claims related to the August 14, 2003 regional power outage, the successful structuring and completion of a potential sale and leaseback transaction for Bruce Mansfield Unit 1 currently under consideration by management, any purchase price adjustment under the accelerated share repurchase program announced on March 2, 2007, the risks and other factors discussed from time to time in our Securities and Exchange Commission filings, including our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006, and other similar factors. Also, a security rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and it may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time and each such rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. We expressly disclaim any current intention to update any forward-looking statements contained herein as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
 
Consolidated Report to the Financial Community - 1st Quarter 2007
12


