FILE:FE/FE-8K-20080501101634.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2.):
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On May 1, 2008, FirstEnergy Corp. issued two public announcements, which are attached as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 hereto and incorporated by reference. FirstEnergy's Consolidated Report to the Financial Community contains non-GAAP* financial measures. Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, FirstEnergy has provided quantitative reconciliations within the Consolidated Report to the Financial Community of the non-GAAP* financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
The Consolidated Report to the Financial Community includes normalized earnings per share, which is not calculated in accordance with GAAP because it excludes the impact of "special items." Special items reflect the impact on earnings of events that are not routine or that may be related to discontinued businesses. Management believes presenting normalized earnings calculated in this manner provides useful information to investors in evaluating the ongoing results of FirstEnergy's businesses and assists investors in comparing FirstEnergys operating performance to the operating performance of other companies in the energy sector. Management believes presenting this non-GAAP* measure provides useful information to investors in assessing FirstEnergy's normalized operating performance. FirstEnergy's management frequently references this non-GAAP* financial measure in its decision-making, using it to facilitate historical and ongoing performance comparisons as well as comparisons to the performance of peer companies.
The non-GAAP* information presented in the Consolidated Report to the Financial Community should be considered in addition to, and not as a substitute for, the most directly comparable financial measure prepared in accordance with GAAP. Also, the non-GAAP* financial measure may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other entities.
 Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits.
*This Form 8-K contains non-GAAP financial measures. Generally, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a company's historical or future financial performance, financial position, or cash flows that either excludes or includes amounts, or is subject to adjustment that has the effect of excluding or including amounts, that are not normally excluded or included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, or GAAP.
 
2
 
This Form 8-K includes forward-looking statements based on information currently available to management. Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. These statements include declarations regarding managements intents, beliefs and current expectations. These statements typically contain, but are not limited to, the terms anticipate, potential, expect, believe, estimate and similar words. Forward-looking statements involve estimates, assumptions, known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievement expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Actual results may differ materially due to the speed and nature of increased competition in the electric utility industry and legislative and regulatory changes affecting how generation rates will be determined following the expiration of existing rate plans in Ohio and Pennsylvania, economic or weather conditions affecting future sales and margins, changes in markets for energy services, changing energy and commodity market prices, replacement power costs being higher than anticipated or inadequately hedged, the continued ability of FirstEnergys regulated utilities to collect transition and other charges or to recover increased transmission costs, maintenance costs being higher than anticipated, other legislative and regulatory changes including revised environmental requirements and possible GHG emission regulations, the uncertainty of the timing and amounts of the capital expenditures needed to, among other things, implement the Air Quality Compliance Plan (including that such amounts could be higher than anticipated) or levels of emission reductions related to the Consent Decree resolving the New Source Review litigation or other potential regulatory initiatives, adverse regulatory or legal decisions and outcomes (including, but not limited to, the revocation of necessary licenses or operating permits and oversight) by the NRC (including, but not limited to, the Demand for Information issued to FENOC on May 14, 2007), the timing and outcome of various proceedings before the PUCO (including, but not limited to, the distribution rate cases and the generation supply plan filing for the Ohio Companies and the successful resolution of the issues remanded to the PUCO by the Ohio Supreme Court regarding the RSP and RCP, including the deferral of fuel costs) and Met-Eds and Penelecs transmission service charge filings with the PPUC as well as the resolution of the Petitions for Review filed with the Commonwealth Court of Pennsylvania with respect to the transition rate plan for Met-Ed and Penelec, the continuing availability of generating units and their ability to operate at, or near full capacity, the changing market conditions that could affect the value of assets held in the registrants nuclear decommissioning trusts, pension trusts and other trust funds, the ability to comply with applicable state and federal reliability standards, the ability to accomplish or realize anticipated benefits from strategic goals (including employee workforce initiatives), the ability to improve electric commodity margins and to experience growth in the distribution business, the ability to access the public securities and other capital markets and the cost of such capital, the risks and other factors discussed from time to time in the registrants SEC filings, and other similar factors. The foregoing review of factors should not be construed as exhaustive. New factors emerge from time to time, and it is not possible to predict all such factors, nor assess the impact of any such factor on the registrants business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. Also, a security rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities, and it may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time and each such rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. The registrant expressly disclaims any current intention to update any forward-looking statements contained herein as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
Forward-Looking Statements:
 
 
 
 
3
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto authorized.
May 1, 2008
 
 
 
 
4
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
AKRON, OH  FirstEnergy Corp. (NYSE: FE) today reported first quarter net income of $276 million, or basic earnings of $0.91 per share of common stock
($0.90 diluted), on revenues of $3.3 billion.  This compares to record first quarter net income in 2007 of $290 million, or basic and diluted earnings of $0.92 per share, on revenues of $3.0 billion.
 
First quarter 2008 results benefited from increased generation margins  revenue less fuel and purchased power costs  as well as a gain from the sale of non-core assets, and the impact of fewer common shares outstanding resulting from last years share repurchase program.  These factors were offset by decreased investment income and increases in other costs.
 
The company achieved record first quarter generation output of 20.4million megawatt-hours (MWH), compared to 19.4 million MWH in 2007.
 
 
Electric generation sales in the quarter increased slightly comparedto the 2007 period, with a 7 percent increase in wholesale sales, partially offset by a 1 percent decrease in retail generation sales.
 
 
The solid operational performance of our plants helped us exceed our earnings guidance for the quarter, said Anthony J. Alexander, president and chief executive officer of FirstEnergy.  Our record first quarter generation output reflects our continued success in positioning our generation business as the platform for our future growth.
 
 
 
 
FirstEnergys Consolidated Report to the Financial Community  which provides highlights on company developments and financial results for the quarter  is posted on the companys Web site  To access the report, click on
www.firstenergycorp.com/i
r.
 
.
Q1 2008 Consolidated Report to the Financial Community
 
FirstEnergy is a diversified energy company headquartered in Akron, Ohio.  Its subsidiaries and affiliates are involved in the generation, transmission and distribution of electricity, as well as energy management and other energy-related services.  Its seven electric utility operating companies comprise the nations fifth largest investor-owned electric system, based on 4.5 million customers served within a 36,100-square-mile area of Ohio, Pennsylvania and New Jersey; and its generation subsidiaries control more than 14,000 megawatts of capacity.
 
This news release includes forward-looking statements based on information currently available to management. Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. These statements include declarations regarding our, or our managements, intents, beliefs and current expectations.  These statements typically contain, but are not limited to, the terms anticipate, potential, expect, believe, estimate and similar words.   Forward-looking statements involve estimates, assumptions, known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements.  Actual results may differ materially due to the speed and nature of increased competition in the electric utility industry and legislative and regulatory changes affecting how generation rates will be determined following the expiration of existing rate plans in Ohio and Pennsylvania, economic or weather conditions affecting future sales and margins, changes in markets for energy services, changing energy and commodity market prices, replacement power costs being higher than anticipated or inadequately hedged, the continued ability of FirstEnergys regulated utilities to collect transition and other charges or to recover increased transmission costs, maintenance costs being higher than anticipated, other legislative and regulatory changes including revised environmental requirements and possible greenhouse gas emissions regulation, the uncertainty of the timing and amounts of the capital expenditures needed to, among other things, implement the Air Quality Compliance Plan (including that such amounts could be higher than anticipated) or levels of emission reductions related to the Consent Decree resolving the New Source Review litigation or other potential regulatory initiatives, adverse regulatory or legal decisions and outcomes (including, but not limited to, the revocation of necessary licenses or operating permits and oversight by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission including, but not limited to, the Demand for Information issued to FENOC on May 14, 2007) as disclosed in our SEC filings, the timing and outcome of various proceedings before the PUCO (including, but not limited to, the Distribution Rate Cases and the generation supply plan filing for the Ohio Companies and the successful resolution of the issues remanded to the PUCO by the Supreme Court of Ohio regarding the Rate Stabilization Plan and the Rate Certainty Plan, including the deferral of fuel costs) and Met-Ed and Penelecs transmission service charge filings with the PPUC (as well as the resolution of the Petitions for Review filed with the Commonwealth Court of Pennsylvania with respect to the transition rate plan for Met-Ed and Penelec), the continuing availability of generating units and their ability to continue to operate at or near full capacity, the ability to comply with applicable state and federal reliability standards, the ability to accomplish or realize anticipated benefits from strategic goals (including employee workforce initiatives), the ability to improve electric commodity margins and to experience growth in the distribution business, changing market conditions that could affect the value of assets held in our nuclear decommissioning trust fund, pension fund and other trust funds, the ability to access the public securities and other capital markets and the cost of such capital, the risks and other factors discussed from time to time in our SEC filings, and other similar factors.  The foregoing review of factors should not be construed as exhaustive.  New factors emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for us to predict all such factors, nor can we assess the impact of any such factor on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements.  We expressly disclaim any current intention to update any forward-looking statements contained herein as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
Forward-Looking Statements:  
 
(050108)
 
 2
 

                
   
   
   
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
   
First Quarter 2008               
  
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
     
(Released May 1, 2008) (Unaudited)
  
 
   
   
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
200
8
Earnings Guidance
 
 
 
 
The 2008 GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliation statements can be found on page 10 of this report and all GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliation statements are available on the Investor Information section of FirstEnergy Corp.'s Web site at .
*
www.firstenergycorp.com/ir
 
 
 
 
For additional information, please contact:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Consolidated Report to the Financial Community - 1st Quarter 2008                                                                                                                                                                           ;        3
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Consolidated Report to the Financial Community - 1st Quarter 2008                                                                                                                                                                           ;       4
 
 
 
 
 
Consolidated Report to the Financial Community - 1st Quarter 2008                                                                                                                                                                           ;       5
 
 
 
 
 
Consolidated Report to the Financial Community - 1st Quarter 2008                                                                                                                                                                           ;       6
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Consolidated Report to the Financial Community - 1st Quarter 2008                                                                                                                                                                           ;       7
 
 
 
 
 
Consolidated Report to the Financial Community - 1st Quarter 2008                                                                                                                                                                           ;       8
 
 
 
 
Consolidated Report to the Financial Community - 1st Quarter 2008                                                                                                                                                                           ;        9
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
RECENT DEVELOPMENTS
Ohio
Substitute Senate Bill 221
On April 10, 2008, an updated version of Substitute Senate Bill 221 (Substitute SB221) was introduced in the Ohio House Public Utilities Committee (HPUC), which had been holding hearings on the Ohio Senate version of the bill. The bill would require all utilities to file an updated rate stabilization plan, now called an electric security plan (ESP), with the Public Utilities Commission of Ohio (PUCO). A utility also could simultaneously file a market rate offer (MRO) in which it would have to prove the following objective market criteria:
 
The PUCO would test the ESP and its pricing and all other terms and conditions against the MRO and choose the more favorable option. The substitute bill also includes most of the provisions of House Bill 487 (introduced on February 21, 2008) dealing with advanced and renewable energy standards and energy efficiency, including requirements to meet annual benchmarks. On April 15, 2008, Substitute SB221 was reported out of the HPUC and referred to the full Ohio House of Representatives for consideration.  On April 22, an amended version of Substitute SB221 was passed by the House and sent back to the Senate for concurrence.  On April 23, the Senate approved Amended Substitute SB221 and forwarded the bill to the Governor for signature, where it is pending.
 
Ohio
Distribution Rate Case Filing
On February 25, 2008, evidentiary hearings concluded in the distribution rate requests for FirstEnergy subsidiaries Ohio Edison Company, The Cleveland Electric Illuminating Company, and The Toledo Edison Company (TE). The requests for $332 million in revenue increases were filed on June 7, 2007. Public hearings were held from March 5, 2008, through March 24, 2008. Main briefs were filed on March 28, 2008, and reply briefs were filed on April 18, 2008. The PUCO is expected to render its decision during the 2nd or 3rd quarter of 2008.
Penn Power
Interim
Default Service
Supply
Plan
On March 13, 2008, the Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission (PPUC) approved the residential procurement approach in Pennsylvania Power Companys (Penn Power) Joint Petition for Settlement. This Request For Proposal (RFP) approach calls for load-following, full-requirements contracts for default service procurement for residential customers for the period June 1, 2008, through May 31, 2011. The PPUC had previously approved the default service procurement approaches for commercial and industrial customers. The default service procurement for small commercial customers was conducted through multiple RFPs, while the default service procurement for large commercial and industrial customers will use hourly pricing.  Bids in the first RFP for small commercial load were received on February 20, 2008, and approved by the PPUC on February 22, 2008. Bids in the second RFP were received on March 18, 2008, and approved by the PPUC on March 20, 2008. On March 28, 2008, Penn Power filed compliance tariffs with the new default service generation rates based on the approved RFP bids for small commercial customers, which the PPUC then certified on April 4, 2008. On April 14, 2008, the first RFP for residential load was held consisting of tranches for both 12- and 24-month supply. The PPUC approved the bids on April 16, 2008. The second RFP is scheduled to be held on May 14, 2008, after which Penn Power expects the PPUC to approve the new rates, which would go into effect June 1, 2008.
Met-Ed and Penelec Transmission Service Charge Update Filing
On April 14, 2008, Metropolitan Edison Company (Met-Ed) and Pennsylvania Electric Company (Penelec) filed annual updates to the transmission service charge rider (TSC) for the period June 1, 2008, through May 31, 2009.  The proposed TSCs include a component for under-recovery of actual transmission costs incurred during the prior period and future transmission cost projections for June 2008 through May 2009. Met-Ed, has proposed a transition approach that would recover past under-recovered costs plus carrying charges through the new TSC, and defer a portion of the projected costs plus carrying charges for recovery through future TSCs by December 31, 2010.
 
 
 
 
 
Repurchase and Remarketing of Auction Rate Bonds
In February 2008, FirstEnergys subsidiaries elected to convert all $530 million of their outstanding auction rate bonds to a weekly rate mode in response to disruptions in the auction rate securities markets and a loss of confidence in bond insurers. The conversion of these bonds required their mandatory purchase on the applicable conversion dates. Between February 27, 2008, and April 2, 2008, FirstEnergys subsidiaries repurchased these securities. The companies initially funded the repurchase with short-term debt, capping their exposure at the short-term borrowing rate. On April 22, 2008, Met-Ed ($28.5 million) and Penelec ($45 million) remarketed their bonds that previously had been in an auction rate mode in a variable-rate mode supported by a bank letter of credit.  Subject to market conditions, the companies plan to remarket or refund the rest of these securities over the balance of the year, either in fixed-rate or variable-rate modes.
Record Generation Output
FirstEnergy set a new first quarter generation output record of 20.4 million megawatt-hours, a 1.8% increase over the previous record established in the first quarter of 2006. The generation record reflected favorable performance from both the fossil and nuclear fleets.
Nuclear Operations Update
On April 14, 2008, the Perry Nuclear Power Plant returned to service following completion of a 10-day planned outage for valve work and other maintenance in preparation for the upcoming summer months.
On April 14, 2008, Beaver Valley Unit 2 began its regularly scheduled refueling outage. During the outage, several improvement projects are expected to take place on the 868-megawatt (MW) unit, including replacing the high pressure turbine and inspecting the reactor vessel and other plant safety systems. BV2 operated for 520 consecutive days when it was taken off line for the outage.
Sale
of Telecommunications Assets
On March 7, 2008, FirstEnergy sold substantially all of the assets of FirstEnergy Telecom Services, Inc. to First Communications, Inc., (FirstCom) for $45 million in cash, with FirstCom also assuming related liabilities. The sale resulted in an after-tax gain of approximately $0.06 per share. FirstEnergy is a 15.6% shareholder in FirstCom.
 
 
 
 
 
 This Consolidated Report to the Financial Community includes forward-looking statements based on information currently available to management. Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. These statements include declarations regarding our, or our managements, intents, beliefs and current expectations.  These statements typically contain, but are not limited to, the terms anticipate, potential, expect, believe, estimate and similar words.   Forward-looking statements involve estimates, assumptions, known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements.  Actual results may differ materially due to the speed and nature of increased competition in the electric utility industry and legislative and regulatory changes affecting how generation rates will be determined following the expiration of existing rate plans in Ohio and Pennsylvania, economic or weather conditions affecting future sales and margins, changes in markets for energy services, changing energy and commodity market prices, replacement power costs being higher than anticipated or inadequately hedged, the continued ability of FirstEnergys regulated utilities to collect transition and other charges or to recover increased transmission costs, maintenance costs being higher than anticipated, other legislative and regulatory changes including revised environmental requirements and possible greenhouse gas emissions regulation, the uncertainty of the timing and amounts of the capital expenditures needed to, among other things, implement the Air Quality Compliance Plan (including that such amounts could be higher than anticipated) or levels of emission reductions related to the Consent Decree resolving the New Source Review litigation or other potential regulatory initiatives, adverse regulatory or legal decisions and outcomes (including, but not limited to, the revocation of necessary licenses or operating permits and oversight by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission including, but not limited to, the Demand for Information issued to FENOC on May 14, 2007) as disclosed in our SEC filings, the timing and outcome of various proceedings before the PUCO (including, but not limited to, the Distribution Rate Cases and the generation supply plan filing for the Ohio Companies and the successful resolution of the issues remanded to the PUCO by the Supreme Court of Ohio regarding the Rate Stabilization Plan and the Rate Certainty Plan, including the deferral of fuel costs) and Met-Ed and Penelecs transmission service charge filings with the PPUC (as well as the resolution of the Petitions for Review filed with the Commonwealth Court of Pennsylvania with respect to the transition rate plan for Met-Ed and Penelec), the continuing availability of generating units and their ability to continue to operate at or near full capacity, the ability to comply with applicable state and federal reliability standards, the ability to accomplish or realize anticipated benefits from strategic goals (including employee workforce initiatives), the ability to improve electric commodity margins and to experience growth in the distribution business, changing market conditions that could affect the value of assets held in our nuclear decommissioning trust fund, pension fund and other trust funds, the ability to access the public securities and other capital markets and the cost of such capital, the risks and other factors discussed from time to time in our SEC filings, and other similar factors.  The foregoing review of factors should not be construed as exhaustive.  New factors emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for us to predict all such factors, nor can we assess the impact of any such factor on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements.  We expressly disclaim any current intention to update any forward-looking statements contained herein as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
Forward-looking Statements.
 
 
 
 
 
 


