FILE:FE/FE-8K-20080731172612.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2.):
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
On July 31, 2008, FirstEnergy Corp.s Ohio utility subsidiaries, Ohio Edison Company, The Cleveland Electric Illuminating Company and The Toledo Edison Company, (collectively, the Ohio Companies), filed a comprehensive Electric Security Plan (ESP) and supporting testimony with the Public Utilities Commission of Ohio (PUCO).  The Ohio Companies also filed with the PUCO a Market Rate Offer, which outlines a competitive bidding process that would be implemented if the ESP is not approved by the PUCO
. FirstEnergy provided related information in a Press Release and Letter to the Investment Community, which are furnished, not filed, as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, respectively, and incorporated by reference hereunder.
 Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
This Form 8-K includes forward-looking statements based on information currently available to management. Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. These statements include declarations regarding managements intents, beliefs and current expectations. These statements typically contain, but are not limited to, the terms anticipate, potential, expect, believe, estimate and similar words. Forward-looking statements involve estimates, assumptions, known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievement expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Actual results may differ materially due to the speed and nature of increased competition in the electric utility industry and legislative and regulatory changes affecting how generation rates will be determined following the expiration of existing rate plans in Ohio and Pennsylvania, the impact of the PUCOs rulemaking process on the Ohio Companies ESP and MRO filings, economic or weather conditions affecting future sales and margins, changes in markets for energy services, changing energy and commodity market prices and availability, replacement power costs being higher than anticipated or inadequately hedged, the continued ability of FirstEnergys regulated utilities to collect transition and other charges or to recover increased transmission costs, maintenance costs being higher than anticipated, other legislative and regulatory changes, revised environmental requirements, including possible GHG emission regulations, the impact of the U.S. Court of Appeals July 11, 2008 decision to vacate the CAIR rules and the scope of any laws, rules or regulations that may ultimately take their place, the uncertainty of the timing and amounts of the capital expenditures needed to, among other things, implement the Air Quality Compliance Plan (including that such amounts could be higher than anticipated) or levels of emission reductions related to the Consent Decree resolving the New Source Review litigation or other potential regulatory initiatives, adverse regulatory or legal decisions and outcomes (including, but not limited to, the revocation of necessary licenses or operating permits and oversight) by the NRC (including, but not limited to, the Demand for Information issued to FENOC on May 14, 2007), the timing and outcome of various proceedings before the PUCO (including, but not limited to, the distribution rate cases and the generation supply plan filing for the Ohio Companies and the successful resolution of the issues remanded to the PUCO by the Ohio Supreme Court regarding the RSP and RCP, including the deferral of fuel costs) and Met-Eds and Penelecs transmission service charge filings with the PPUC as well as the resolution of the Petitions for Review filed with the Commonwealth Court of Pennsylvania with respect to the transition rate plan for Met-Ed and Penelec, the continuing availability of generating units and their ability to operate at, or near full capacity, the changing market conditions that could affect the value of assets held in the registrants nuclear decommissioning trusts, pension trusts and other trust funds, the ability to comply with applicable state and federal reliability standards, the ability to accomplish or realize anticipated benefits from strategic goals (including employee workforce initiatives), the ability to improve electric commodity margins and to experience growth in the distribution business, the ability to access the public securities and other capital markets and the cost of such capital, the risks and other factors discussed from time to time in the registrants SEC filings, and other similar factors. The foregoing review of factors should not be construed as exhaustive. New factors emerge from time to time, and it is not possible to predict all such factors, nor assess the impact of any such factor on the registrants business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. Also, a security rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities, and it may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time and each such rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. The registrants expressly disclaim any current intention to update any forward-looking statements contained herein as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
Forward-Looking Statements:
 
2
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
July 31, 2008
 
 
 
3
 

 
EXHIBIT 99.1
 
AKRON, Ohio  Ohio Edison Company (Ohio Edison), The Cleveland Electric Illuminating Company (CEI) and The Toledo Edison Company (Toledo Edison), electric utility companies of FirstEnergy Corp. (NYSE: FE), today filed a comprehensive Electric Security Plan (ESP) with the Public Utilities Commission of Ohio (PUCO).  The filing, which is required under Amended Substitute Senate Bill 221 (Am. Sub. SB 221), would phase in generation rates over a three-year period and incorporate the companies distribution rate case that was filed with the PUCO in June 2007.
Under the plan, total customer rates  including generation, transmission and distribution  would increase an average of 5.3 percent in 2009, 4 percent in 2010 and 6 percent in 2011.  Of the 2009 increase, approximately 3.2 percent is related to the companies pending distribution rate case.  If approved, the ESP would represent the first increase in base rates since 1990 for Ohio Edison and 1996 for CEI and Toledo Edison.
Although the percentage change in rates will vary depending on usage, the impact on a typical residential monthly bill from Ohio Edison based on 750 kilowatt-hours would be a decrease of $1.28 in 2009, followed by an increase of $3.06 in 2010 and an increase of $3.67 in 2011.  For CEI, the decrease would be $0.10 in 2009, then an increase of $3.45 in 2010 and $1.29 in 2011.  For Toledo Edison, the decrease would be $0.16 in 2009, then an increase of $3.06 in 2010 and $3.30 in 2011.
 
 
 
We are pleased to offer a plan that protects customers from the kind of rate shock experienced in other states while providing for appropriate investments in system reliability, said Anthony J. Alexander, president and chief executive officer of FirstEnergy.  At the same time, our company will provide up to $50 million to support energy efficiency, demand reduction and economic development and job retention programs under the plan.
Proposed rates reflect the end of transition cost recovery for all three companies, including CEI, which was scheduled to continue collecting regulatory transition costs through 2010.
Considering our costs to produce and deliver electricity have increased dramatically since our last base rate cases were decided more than a dozen years ago, weve designed a plan that provides for modest increases in electricity prices over the next three years, said Mr. Alexander.
Other components of the comprehensive ESP include:
Generation
 
 
 
2
 
Distribution
Transmission
Support for Energy Efficiency, Jobs and Technology
 
3
 
Other Key Features
While the companies believe the ESP would be more favorable for customers overall, they also filed a Market Rate Offer (MRO) that outlines a competitive bidding process for providing retail generation service to customers if the ESP is not implemented.   The bidding would use a slice-of-system approach, combining all three companies load and dividing total customer usage into portions, called tranches, each representing approximately 100 megawatts.  An independent manager would conduct the bidding process to ensure that it is open, fair and transparent.
Additional information about the ESP and MRO is available in a Letter to the Investment Community, posted on FirstEnergys Web site, .
www.firstenergycorp.com/ir
FirstEnergy is a diversified energy company headquartered in Akron, Ohio.  Its subsidiaries and affiliates are involved in the generation, transmission and distribution of electricity, as well as energy management and other energy-related services.  Its seven electric utility operating companies comprise the nations fifth largest investor-owned electric system, based on 4.5 million customers served, within a 36,100-square-mile area of Ohio, Pennsylvania and New Jersey.
 
4
 
This news release includes forward-looking statements based on information currently available to management. Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. These statements include declarations regarding our, or our managements, intents, beliefs and current expectations.  These statements typically contain, but are not limited to, the terms anticipate, potential, expect, believe, estimate and similar words.   Forward-looking statements involve estimates, assumptions, known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements.  Actual results may differ materially due to the speed and nature of increased competition in the electric utility industry and legislative and regulatory changes affecting how generation rates will be determined following the expiration of existing rate plans in Ohio and Pennsylvania, the impact of the PUCOs rulemaking process on our Ohio utility subsidiaries Electric Security Plan and Market Rate Offer filings, economic or weather conditions affecting future sales and margins, changes in markets for energy services, changing energy and commodity market prices and availability, replacement power costs being higher than anticipated or inadequately hedged, the continued ability of FirstEnergys regulated utilities to collect transition and other charges or to recover increased transmission costs, maintenance costs being higher than anticipated, other legislative and regulatory changes including revised environmental requirements and possible greenhouse gas emissions regulation, the impact of the U.S. Court of Appeals July 11, 2008 decision to vacate the CAIR rules and the scope of any laws, rules or regulations that may ultimately take their place, the uncertainty of the timing and amounts of the capital expenditures needed to, among other things, implement the Air Quality Compliance Plan (including that such amounts could be higher than anticipated) or levels of emission reductions related to the Consent Decree resolving the New Source Review litigation or other potential regulatory initiatives, adverse regulatory or legal decisions and outcomes (including, but not limited to, the revocation of necessary licenses or operating permits and oversight by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission including, but not limited to, the Demand for Information issued to FENOC on May 14, 2007) as disclosed in our SEC filings, the timing and outcome of various proceedings before the PUCO (including, but not limited to, the Distribution Rate Cases and the generation supply plan filing for the Ohio Companies and the successful resolution of the issues remanded to the PUCO by the Supreme Court of Ohio regarding the Rate Stabilization Plan and the Rate Certainty Plan, including the deferral of fuel costs) and Met-Ed and Penelecs transmission service charge filings with the PPUC (as well as the resolution of the Petitions for Review filed with the Commonwealth Court of Pennsylvania with respect to the transition rate plan for Met-Ed and Penelec), the continuing availability of generating units and their ability to continue to operate at or near full capacity, the ability to comply with applicable state and federal reliability standards, the ability to accomplish or realize anticipated benefits from strategic goals (including employee workforce initiatives), the ability to improve electric commodity margins and to experience growth in the distribution business, changing market conditions that could affect the value of assets held in our nuclear decommissioning trust fund, pension fund and other trust funds, the ability to access the public securities and other capital markets and the cost of such capital, the risks and other factors discussed from time to time in our SEC filings, and other similar factors.  The foregoing review of factors should not be construed as exhaustive.  New factors emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for us to predict all such factors, nor can we assess the impact of any such factor on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements.  We expressly disclaim any current intention to update any forward-looking statements contained herein as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
Forward-Looking Statements:  
 
5
 

 
TO THE INVESTMENT COMMUNITY:
1
As announced in todays attached news release, FirstEnergy Corp.s Ohio electric utility operating companies Ohio Edison Company (OE), The Cleveland Electric Illuminating Company (CEI) and The Toledo Edison Company (TE), (collectively, the Delivery Companies), filed a comprehensive Electric Security Plan (ESP or Plan) and supporting testimony with the Public Utilities Commission of Ohio (PUCO or Commission).   A PUCO decision is required within 150 days, with new rates to be effective for the Companies customers January 1, 2009.  The Companies also filed a Market Rate Offer (MRO), which outlines a competitive bidding process (CBP) that would be implemented if the ESP is not approved by the PUCO.  This letter provides additional details about both the ESP and MRO.
Background
On May 1, 2008, Ohio Governor Ted Strickland signed into law Amended Substitute Senate Bill 221 (SB221).  The bill requires all Ohio utilities to file an updated rate stabilization plan, now called an ESP, to address customer rates beginning January 1, 2009.  A utility also may file an MRO in which it would have to demonstrate the following objective market criteria:
 
______________________________
Please see the forward-looking statements at the end of this letter. 
1
 
 
 
 
Overview of the ESP
The ESP provides a flexible approach to phase in new generation pricing for customers beginning in 2009 for a three-year period, with the third year being at the option of the PUCO.  The Plan is designed to limit average overall total bill percentage increases across all three companies to single digits each year while achieving FirstEnergys financial, reliability and performance objectives.
The comprehensive Plan also addresses the Delivery Companies distribution rate case (Case No. 07-551-EL-AIR) and the Application on Remand (Case No. 08-124-EL-ATA) regarding the recovery mechanism to collect deferred fuel costs and associated carrying costs previously established in the Rate Certainty Plan (RCP), both of which are pending before the PUCO.
To support the ESP, the Delivery Companies will enter into a contract with FirstEnergy Solutions Corp. (FES) to provide wholesale generation service for their Ohio customers over the Plans term  2009, 2010 and potentially 2011.  The Plan is conditioned upon FERC approval.
Major
Generation-Related
Provisions of the ESP
 
2
 
 
3
 
Major Energy Delivery-Related Provisions of the ESP
Other Key Provisions
 
______________________________
 
2
A non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a company's historical or future financial performance, financial position, or cash flows that either excludes or includes amounts that are not normally excluded or included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP).   Non-GAAP financial measures are intended to complement, and not considered as an alternative, to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure.  Also, non-GAAP financial measures may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other entities.
 
4
 
 
 
5
 
Delivery Company Commitments:
Generation and Environmental
Commitments:
The Plan is presented on behalf of all three Delivery Companies collectively, and must be accepted with respect to all of them. PUCO approval of the ESP is requested by December 10, 2008.
 
6
 
In summary, the ESP is consistent with the objectives of mitigating potential customer rate increases over the Plans term while preserving FirstEnergys financial integrity through implementation of specified regulatory accounting practices, and the ability for the Delivery Companies to recover certain increased costs and meet performance and reliability objectives.
Overview of the MRO
Concurrent with todays ESP filing, the Delivery Companies filed an application for an MRO, which proposes a competitive bidding process to procure generation supply if the ESP is not approved and implemented.  The MRO satisfies specific requirements in SB221 related to RTO membership, an independent market monitor function and availability of market pricing information.
Major MRO Provisions
 
7
 
Severable Short Term ESP P
lan
Lastly, the Delivery Companies have included in the ESP a short-term pricing proposal, called a Severable Short Term ESP Standard Service Offer, if additional time is necessary for final PUCO approval of either the ESP or to conduct the MRO in a more measured approach.  The base generation rate will be $0.0775 per kWh, reduced to $0.0675 per kWh to reflect the customer phase in/deferral.
The proposal calls for PUCO approval of the Short Term ESP on or before November 14, 2008, after which time the Delivery Companies would withdraw the option if not approved.
If approved, the Short Term ESP provides the PUCO until March 5, 2009 to act on the full ESP.  If no action is taken by that date, or if the Commission rejects the full ESP, the Delivery Companies will proceed with implementation of the MRO, with a procurement auction in early to mid April.  Power supply under the MRO under the Short Term ESP scenario would commence May 1, 2009.
Upcoming
FirstEnergy
I
nvestor
Events
Lehman Brothers Energy/Power Conference
September 3, 2008
New York City
Merrill Lynch Global Power & Gas Leaders Conference
September 24, 2008
New York City
Edison Electric Institute (EEI) Financial Conference
November 9-12, 2008
Phoenix, AZ
If you have any questions concerning information in this update, please contact Irene Prezelj, manager of Investor Relations, at (330) 384-3859, or Rey Jimenez, manager of Investor Relations, at (330) 761-4239, or me at (330) 384-5415.
Sincerely,
Ronald E. Seeholzer
Vice President, Investor Relations
 
8
 
This Letter to the Investment Community includes forward-looking statements based on information currently available to management. Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. These statements include declarations regarding our, or our managements, intents, beliefs and current expectations.  These statements typically contain, but are not limited to, the terms anticipate, potential, expect, believe, estimate and similar words.   Forward-looking statements involve estimates, assumptions, known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements.  Actual results may differ materially due to the speed and nature of increased competition in the electric utility industry and legislative and regulatory changes affecting how generation rates will be determined following the expiration of existing rate plans in Ohio and Pennsylvania, the impact of the PUCOs rulemaking process on our Ohio utility subsidiaries Electric Security Plan and Market Rate Offer filings, economic or weather conditions affecting future sales and margins, changes in markets for energy services, changing energy and commodity market prices and availability, replacement power costs being higher than anticipated or inadequately hedged, the continued ability of FirstEnergys regulated utilities to collect transition and other charges or to recover increased transmission costs, maintenance costs being higher than anticipated, other legislative and regulatory changes including revised environmental requirements and possible greenhouse gas emissions regulation, the impact of the U.S. Court of Appeals July 11, 2008 decision to vacate the CAIR rules and the scope of any laws, rules or regulations that may ultimately take their place, the uncertainty of the timing and amounts of the capital expenditures needed to, among other things, implement the Air Quality Compliance Plan (including that such amounts could be higher than anticipated) or levels of emission reductions related to the Consent Decree resolving the New Source Review litigation or other potential regulatory initiatives, adverse regulatory or legal decisions and outcomes (including, but not limited to, the revocation of necessary licenses or operating permits and oversight by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission including, but not limited to, the Demand for Information issued to FENOC on May 14, 2007) as disclosed in our SEC filings, the timing and outcome of various proceedings before the PUCO (including, but not limited to, the Distribution Rate Cases and the generation supply plan filing for the Ohio Companies and the successful resolution of the issues remanded to the PUCO by the Supreme Court of Ohio regarding the Rate Stabilization Plan and the Rate Certainty Plan, including the deferral of fuel costs) and Met-Ed and Penelecs transmission service charge filings with the PPUC (as well as the resolution of the Petitions for Review filed with the Commonwealth Court of Pennsylvania with respect to the transition rate plan for Met-Ed and Penelec), the continuing availability of generating units and their ability to continue to operate at or near full capacity, the ability to comply with applicable state and federal reliability standards, the ability to accomplish or realize anticipated benefits from strategic goals (including employee workforce initiatives), the ability to improve electric commodity margins and to experience growth in the distribution business, changing market conditions that could affect the value of assets held in our nuclear decommissioning trust fund, pension fund and other trust funds, the ability to access the public securities and other capital markets and the cost of such capital, the risks and other factors discussed from time to time in our SEC filings, and other similar factors.  The foregoing review of factors should not be construed as exhaustive.  New factors emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for us to predict all such factors, nor can we assess the impact of any such factor on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements.  We expressly disclaim any current intention to update any forward-looking statements contained herein as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
 
9
 


