FILE:FE/FE-8K-20081104093950.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2.):
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On November 4, 2008, FirstEnergy Corp. issued two public announcements, which are attached as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 hereto and incorporated by reference. FirstEnergy's Press Release and Consolidated Report to the Financial Community contain non-GAAP* financial measures. Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, FirstEnergy has provided quantitative reconciliations within the Press Release and Consolidated Report to the Financial Community of non-GAAP* financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
The Press Release and Consolidated Report to the Financial Community include normalized earnings per share, which is not calculated in accordance with GAAP because it excludes the impact of "special items." Special items reflect the impact on earnings of events that are not routine or that may be related to discontinued businesses. Management believes presenting normalized earnings calculated in this manner provides useful information to investors in evaluating the ongoing results of FirstEnergy's businesses and assists investors in comparing FirstEnergys operating performance to the operating performance of other companies in the energy sector. Management believes presenting this non-GAAP* measure provides useful information to investors in assessing FirstEnergy's normalized operating performance. FirstEnergy's management frequently references this non-GAAP* financial measure in its decision-making, using it to facilitate historical and ongoing performance comparisons as well as comparisons to the performance of peer companies.
The non-GAAP* information presented in the Press Release and Consolidated Report to the Financial Community should be considered in addition to, and not as a substitute for, the most directly comparable financial measure prepared in accordance with GAAP. Also, the non-GAAP* financial measure may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other entities.
 Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits.
*This Form 8-K contains non-GAAP financial measures. Generally, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a company's historical or future financial performance, financial position, or cash flows that either excludes or includes amounts, or is subject to adjustment that has the effect of excluding or including amounts, that are not normally excluded or included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, or GAAP.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2
 
This Form 8-K includes forward-looking statements based on information currently available to management. Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. These statements include declarations regarding managements intents, beliefs and current expectations.  These statements typically contain, but are not limited to, the terms anticipate, potential, expect, believe, estimate and similar words.  Forward-looking statements involve estimates, assumptions, known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements.  Actual results may differ materially due to the speed and nature of increased competition in the electric utility industry and legislative and regulatory changes affecting how generation rates will be determined following the expiration of existing rate plans in Ohio and Pennsylvania, the impact of the PUCOs rulemaking process on the Ohio Companies Electric Security Plan and Market Rate Offer filings, economic or weather conditions affecting future sales and margins, changes in markets for energy services, changing energy and commodity market prices and availability, replacement power costs being higher than anticipated or inadequately hedged, the continued ability of FirstEnergys regulated utilities to collect transition and other charges or to recover increased transmission costs, maintenance costs being higher than anticipated, other legislative and regulatory changes, revised environmental requirements, including possible greenhouse gas emission regulations, the impact of the U.S. Court of Appeals July 11, 2008 decision to vacate the CAIR rules and the scope of any laws, rules or regulations that may ultimately take their place, the uncertainty of the timing and amounts of the capital expenditures needed to, among other things, implement the Air Quality Compliance Plan (including that such amounts could be higher than anticipated) or levels of emission reductions related to the Consent Decree resolving the New Source Review litigation or other potential regulatory initiatives, adverse regulatory or legal decisions and outcomes (including, but not limited to, the revocation of necessary licenses or operating permits and oversight) by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (including, but not limited to, the Demand for Information issued to FENOC on May 14, 2007), the timing and outcome of various proceedings before the PUCO (including, but not limited to, the Electric Security Plan and Market Rate Offer proceedings as well as the distribution rate cases and the generation supply plan filing for the Ohio Companies and the successful resolution of the issues remanded to the PUCO by the Ohio Supreme Court regarding the Rate Stabilization Plan and the Rate Certainty Plan, including the recovery of deferred fuel costs), Met-Eds and Penelecs transmission service charge filings with the PPUC (as well as the resolution of the Petitions for Review filed with the Commonwealth Court of Pennsylvania with respect to the transition rate plan for Met-Ed and Penelec), the continuing availability of generating units and their ability to operate at or near full capacity, the ability to comply with applicable state and federal reliability standards, the ability to accomplish or realize anticipated benefits from strategic goals (including employee workforce initiatives), the ability to improve electric commodity margins and to experience growth in the distribution business, the changing market conditions that could affect the value of assets held in the registrants nuclear decommissioning trusts, pension trusts and other trust funds, and cause FirstEnergy to make additional contributions sooner, or in an amount that is larger than currently anticipated, the ability to access the public securities and other capital and credit markets in accordance with FirstEnergys financing plan and the cost of such capital, changes in general economic conditions affecting the registrant, the state of the capital and credit markets affecting the registrant, and the risks and other factors discussed from time to time in the registrants SEC filings, and other similar factors.  The foregoing review of factors should not be construed as exhaustive.  New factors emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for management to predict all such factors, nor assess the impact of any such factor on the registrants business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. Also, a security rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities, and it may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time and each such rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. The registrant expressly disclaims any current intention to update any forward-looking statements contained herein as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
Forward-Looking Statements:
 
 
 
3
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto authorized.
November 4, 2008
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Akron, Ohio  FirstEnergy Corp. (NYSE: FE) today reported third quarter 2008 basic earnings of $1.55 ($1.54 diluted) per share of common stock on net income of $471 million and revenue of $3.9 billion.  This compares with third quarter 2007 basic earnings of $1.36
($1.34 diluted) per share of common stock on net income of $413 million and revenue of
$3.6 billion.
 
The company also announced that full-year 2008 non-GAAP(*) earnings guidance has been increased to $4.30 to $4.40 per share, from a previous range of $4.25 to $4.35 per share.
 
 Our strong third-quarter results were driven by record quarterly output from our competitive generation fleet, as well as a favorable resolution of tax issues.  These offset the impact of higher purchased power costs, primarily for our regulated utility companies, said President and Chief Executive Officer Anthony J. Alexander.  As a result of our companys performance during the first nine months of the year, we are increasing our full-year 2008 earnings guidance, he said.
 
The companys record quarterly generation output of 22.2 million megawatt hours was a 3 percent increase compared to the previous record established in the third quarter of 2006, and a 6 percent increase from the prior-year period.  Generation revenues were also boosted by higher wholesale and retail prices.
 
Electric generation sales decreased slightly compared to the third quarter of 2007.  A
15 percent increase in wholesale electricity sales was offset by a 4 percent decrease in retail market sales.  Kilowatt-hour deliveries to customers through the companys utility distribution system decreased 2 percent compared to the third quarter of 2007, in part due to milder weather.
 
For the first nine months of 2008, basic earnings per share of common stock were
$3.32 ($3.29 diluted) on net income of $1.0 billion and revenue of $10.4 billion.  This compares to basic earnings per share of common stock of $3.39 ($3.35 diluted), on net income of
$1.0 billion and revenue of $9.7 billion in the prior-year period.
 
 
FirstEnergys which provides highlights on company developments and financial results for the third quarter of 2008  is posted on the companys Web site  To access the report, click on .
Consolidated Report to the Financial Community 
www.firstenergycorp.com/i
r
.  
Q3 2008
Consolidated Report to the Financial Community
 
The company invites investors, customers and other interested parties to listen to a live Internet Webcast of its teleconference for financial analysts at 1:00 p.m. Eastern Time today.  FirstEnergy management will present an overview of the companys financial results for the quarter, followed by a question-and-answer session.  The teleconference can be accessed on the companys Web site by selecting the link.  The Webcast will be archived on the Web site.
Q3 2008 Earnings Conference Call
 
FirstEnergy is a diversified energy company headquartered in Akron, Ohio.  Its subsidiaries and affiliates are involved in the generation, transmission and distribution of electricity, as well as energy management and other energy-related services.  Its seven electric utility operating companies comprise the nations fifth largest investor-owned electric system, based on 4.5 million customers served within a 36,100-square-mile area of Ohio, Pennsylvania and New Jersey; and its generation subsidiaries control more than 14,000 megawatts of capacity.
(*)  This news release contains non-GAAP financial measures.  Generally, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a company's historical or future financial
performance, financial position, or cash flows that either excludes or includes amounts that are not normally excluded or included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP).   These non-GAAP financial measures are intended to complement, and not considered as an alternative, to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure.  Also, the non-GAAP financial measures may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other entities.
 
 
 
 
 
2
 
This news release includes forward-looking statements based on information currently available to management. Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. These statements include declarations regarding managements intents, beliefs and current expectations.  These statements typically contain, but are not limited to, the terms anticipate, potential, expect, believe, estimate and similar words.  Forward-looking statements involve estimates, assumptions, known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements.  Actual results may differ materially due to the speed and nature of increased competition in the electric utility industry and legislative and regulatory changes affecting how generation rates will be determined following the expiration of existing rate plans in Ohio and Pennsylvania, the impact of the PUCOs rulemaking process on the Ohio Companies Electric Security Plan and Market Rate Offer filings, economic or weather conditions affecting future sales and margins, changes in markets for energy services, changing energy and commodity market prices and availability, replacement power costs being higher than anticipated or inadequately hedged, the continued ability of FirstEnergys regulated utilities to collect transition and other charges or to recover increased transmission costs, maintenance costs being higher than anticipated, other legislative and regulatory changes, revised environmental requirements, including possible greenhouse gas emission regulations, the impact of the U.S. Court of Appeals July 11, 2008 decision to vacate the CAIR rules and the scope of any laws, rules or regulations that may ultimately take their place, the uncertainty of the timing and amounts of the capital expenditures needed to, among other things, implement the Air Quality Compliance Plan (including that such amounts could be higher than anticipated) or levels of emission reductions related to the Consent Decree resolving the New Source Review litigation or other potential regulatory initiatives, adverse regulatory or legal decisions and outcomes (including, but not limited to, the revocation of necessary licenses or operating permits and oversight) by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (including, but not limited to, the Demand for Information issued to FENOC on May 14, 2007), the timing and outcome of various proceedings before the PUCO (including, but not limited to, the Electric Security Plan and Market Rate Offer proceedings as well as the distribution rate cases and the generation supply plan filing for the Ohio Companies and the successful resolution of the issues remanded to the PUCO by the Ohio Supreme Court regarding the Rate Stabilization Plan and the Rate Certainty Plan, including the recovery of deferred fuel costs), Met-Eds and Penelecs transmission service charge filings with the PPUC (as well as the resolution of the Petitions for Review filed with the Commonwealth Court of Pennsylvania with respect to the transition rate plan for Met-Ed and Penelec), the continuing availability of generating units and their ability to operate at or near full capacity, the ability to comply with applicable state and federal reliability standards, the ability to accomplish or realize anticipated benefits from strategic goals (including employee workforce initiatives), the ability to improve electric commodity margins and to experience growth in the distribution business, the changing market conditions that could affect the value of assets held in the registrants nuclear decommissioning trusts, pension trusts and other trust funds, and cause FirstEnergy to make additional contributions sooner, or in an amount that is larger than currently anticipated, the ability to access the public securities and other capital and credit markets in accordance with FirstEnergys financing plan and the cost of such capital, changes in general economic conditions affecting FirstEnergy, the state of the capital and credit markets affecting FirstEnergy, and the risks and other factors discussed from time to time in its SEC filings, and other similar factors.  The foregoing review of factors should not be construed as exhaustive.  New factors emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for management to predict all such factors, nor assess the impact of any such factor on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements.
Forward-Looking Statements:
 
 
3

 
Exhibit 99.2
 
 
Consolidated Report to the Financial Community
Third Quarter 2008
(Released November 4, 2008) (Unaudited)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
200
8
 Earnings Guidance
 
 
 
 
The 2008 GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliation statements can be found on page 10 of this report and all GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliation statements are available on the   
    * 
       Investor Information section of FirstEnergy Corp.'s Web site at
www
firstenergycorp.com/ir.
.
 
 
For additional information, please contact:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
RECENT DEVELOPMENTS
Record Generation Output
FirstEnergy Corp. (FirstEnergy) set a new generation output record of 22.2 million megawatt-hours during the third quarter of 2008, a 3.2% increase over the previous record established in the third quarter of 2006. This generation record reflects a quarterly all-time high for the nuclear fleet.
September Winds
torm
On September 14, 2008, the remnants of Hurricane Ike swept through Ohio and western Pennsylvania and produced unexpectedly high winds, reaching nearly 80 mph. More than one million customers of Ohio Edison Company (OE), The Cleveland Electric Illuminating Company (CEI), Pennsylvania Power Company (Penn Power), and Pennsylvania Electric Company (Penelec) were affected by the severe windstorm, which produced the largest storm-related outage in the history of those companies.  FirstEnergy crews from all of its seven utility operating subsidiaries, along with assistance from crews of other utilities, restored service to more than 70% of the affected customers within two days, and service to all customers was restored by September 23, 2008. Storm expenses totaled approximately $30 million, of which $19 million was recognized as capital and $11 million as O&M expense.   
Rating Agency Action
On August 1, 2008, Standard & Poors rating agency, citing the Ohio Electric Security Plan (ESP) filing described below, revised the outlook of FirstEnergy and its subsidiaries FirstEnergy Solutions Corp. (FES), OE, CEI, Toledo Edison Company (TE), Penn Power, Jersey Central Power & Light Company (JCP&L), Metropolitan Edison Company (Met-Ed), and Penelec to stable from negative.
Financing Activities
On October 8, 2008, FirstEnergy and its subsidiaries FES and FirstEnergy Generation Corp. (FGCO) entered into a $300 million secured term loan facility with Credit Suisse. Each borrowing under this facility matures 30 days from the date of the borrowing, or, if earlier, the credit facility maturity date, subject to extensions for the release of quarterly financial results. The facility maturity date is October 7, 2009. This facility contains a minimum borrowing amount of $100 million with FGCO as the borrower and FES and FirstEnergy as guarantors.  Each borrowing may not be re-borrowed once repaid.
On October 20, 2008, OE issued $300 million of first mortgage bonds, comprised of $275 million 8.25% series due 2038 and $25 million 8.25% series due 2018. The net proceeds from this offering will be used to fund capital expenditures and for other general corporate purposes of OE.
Letter to the Investment Community
On October 9, 2008, FirstEnergy issued a to provide a comprehensive overview of its consolidated liquidity position and the status of ongoing financing activities. The Letter is available at
Letter to the Investment Community
.
www.firstenergycorp.com
/ir
Ohio
 
Fuel Case
On August 8, 2008, the Ohio Companies submitted a filing to suspend the procedural schedule in their application to recover their 2006-2007 deferred fuel costs and associated carrying charges ($220 million balance as of December 31, 2007), because the ESP filing contains a proposal addressing the recovery of these deferred fuel costs. On August 25, 2008, the PUCO ordered that the September 29, 2008 evidentiary hearing would be held at a future date.  A revised case schedule has yet to be issued.
 
 
 
Ohio
 Regulatory Update
On July 31, 2008, OE, CEI, and TE (collectively, Ohio Companies) filed both an ESP and Market Rate Offer (MRO) with the Public Utilities Commission of Ohio (PUCO). A PUCO decision on the MRO was required by statute within 90 days of the filing and is required on the ESP within 150 days.  Under the ESP, new rates would be effective for customers on January 1, 2009. Evidentiary hearings concluded on October 31, 2008 and no further hearings are scheduled.  The parties are required to submit initial briefs by November 21, 2008, with all reply briefs due by December 12, 2008.  The Ohio Companies also included an interim pricing proposal as part of their ESP filing, if additional time is necessary for final approval of either the ESP or MRO.  The Ohio Companies requested PUCO approval of the interim pricing proposal by November 14, 2008.
Under the MRO alternative, the Ohio Companies propose to procure generation supply through a competitive bidding process (CBP).  If approved, the MRO would be implemented if the ESP is not approved by the PUCO or is changed and not accepted by the Ohio Companies. On September 16, 2008, PUCO Staff testimony was filed and five days of evidentiary hearings began.  Briefs in the case were filed October 6, 2008, with Reply Briefs filed on October 14, 2008. The PUCO failed to act on October 29, 2008 as required under the statute.  The Ohio Companies are unable to predict the outcome of this proceeding.
On July 2, 2008, July 23, 2008, and August 20, 2008, the PUCO staff issued three sets of proposed rules for comment to implement portions of Amended Substitute Senate Bill 221 (SB221):
Following the comment period, the PUCO considers the input from stakeholders before adopting the final rules. The final rules are then subject to change through the application for rehearing process.  Once the application for rehearing process before the PUCO is finalized, the rules are then subject to review by JCARR, which conducts up to a 65-day review.  The rules become effective 10 days following JCARRs review.
Amendments to Market
-
Based Rate Tariffs
On October 24, 2008, FES, FGCO, FirstEnergy Nuclear Generation Corporation, and FirstEnergy Generation Mansfield Unit 1 Corp. (the Applicants) filed proposed amendments to their market-based rate tariffs with the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC). In preparation for serving Ohio customers beginning January 2009 under either the ESP or MRO described above, the Applicants are requesting a determination that FERC requirements to obtain prior approvals for affiliate sales do not apply to the Applicants power sales to CEI, OE, and TE.
Pennsylvania
 
Legislative
 Update
October 15, 2008, Pennsylvania Governor Edward Rendell signed House Bill 2200 (HB 2200) into law. The bill addresses issues such as:  energy efficiency and peak load reduction, generation procurement, time-of-use rates, smart meters, and alternative energy. Major provisions of the legislation include:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Penn Power Interim Default Service Supply Plan
On October 21, 2008, Penn Power held its third Request for Proposal (RFP) to procure default service for residential customers for the period June 2009 through May 2010. The fourth RFP for the remainder of residential customers load for the period June 2009 through May 2010 is scheduled for January 2009. The results of the four RFPs will be averaged and adjusted for line losses, administrative fees and gross receipts tax, and will be reflected in Penn Powers new default service rates.
Met-Ed and Penelec
File Customer
Prepayment Plan
On September 25, 2008, Met-Ed and Penelec filed a voluntary prepayment plan with the PPUC. The plan offers qualified residential and small business customers the option to gradually phase-in future generation price increases by making modest prepayments during the next two years, before rate caps expire at the end of 2010. Each month, customers who elect to participate would prepay an amount equal to approximately 9.6% of their electric bill. Prepayments would earn 7.5% interest, and the prepayments plus accrued interest will be credited to customers to offset the customers electric bills in 2011 and 2012. Met-Ed and Penelec requested that the PPUC approve the plan by December 2008.
Met-Ed and Penelec Rate Cases
Several parties to the Met-Ed and Penelec 2006 rate case proceeding filed Petitions for Review with the Commonwealth Court of Pennsylvania in 2007, asking the court to review the PPUCs determination on several issues including: the recovery of transmission (including congestion); the transmission deferral; consolidated tax savings; the requested generation increase; and recovery of universal service costs from only the residential rate class.  Oral arguments were held on September 10, 2008.  The Courts decision is pending.
Solar Renewable Energy Proposal
On September 30, 2008, JCP&L filed a proposal responsive to the New Jersey Board of Public Utilities (NJBPU) initiative addressing solar project development in the State of New Jersey.  Under the proposal, JCP&L would enter into long-term agreements to buy and sell Solar Renewable Energy Certificates (SREC) to provide a stable basis for financing solar generation projects. An SREC represents the solar energy attributes of one megawatt-hour of generation from a solar generation facility that has been certified by the NJBPU Office of Clean Energy.  Under this proposal, JCP&L would solicit SRECs to satisfy approximately 60%, 50%, and 40% of the incremental SREC purchases needed in its service territory to meet the New Jersey Renewable Portfolio Standards through 2010, 2011, and 2012, respectively.
New Jersey Energy Master Plan
On October 22, 2008, the Governor of New Jersey released the details of New Jerseys Energy Master Plan (EMP), which includes goals to reduce energy consumption by a minimum of 20% by 2020, reduce peak demand by 5,700 MW by 2020, meet 30% of the state's electricity needs with renewable energy by 2020, and examine smart grid technology. The EMP outlines a series of goals and action items to meet set targets, while also continuing to develop the clean energy industry in New Jersey.  The Governor will establish a State Energy Council to implement the recommendations outlined in the plan.
 
 
 
This Consolidated Report to the Financial Community includes forward-looking statements based on information currently available to management. Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. These statements include declarations regarding managements intents, beliefs and current expectations.  These statements typically contain, but are not limited to, the terms anticipate, potential, expect, believe, estimate and similar words.  Forward-looking statements involve estimates, assumptions, known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements.  Actual results may differ materially due to the speed and nature of increased competition in the electric utility industry and legislative and regulatory changes affecting how generation rates will be determined following the expiration of existing rate plans in Ohio and Pennsylvania, the impact of the PUCOs rulemaking process on the Ohio Companies Electric Security Plan and Market Rate Offer filings, economic or weather conditions affecting future sales and margins, changes in markets for energy services, changing energy and commodity market prices and availability, replacement power costs being higher than anticipated or inadequately hedged, the continued ability of FirstEnergys regulated utilities to collect transition and other charges or to recover increased transmission costs, maintenance costs being higher than anticipated, other legislative and regulatory changes, revised environmental requirements, including possible greenhouse gas emission regulations, the impact of the U.S. Court of Appeals July 11, 2008 decision to vacate the CAIR rules and the scope of any laws, rules or regulations that may ultimately take their place, the uncertainty of the timing and amounts of the capital expenditures needed to, among other things, implement the Air Quality Compliance Plan (including that such amounts could be higher than anticipated) or levels of emission reductions related to the Consent Decree resolving the New Source Review litigation or other potential regulatory initiatives, adverse regulatory or legal decisions and outcomes (including, but not limited to, the revocation of necessary licenses or operating permits and oversight) by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (including, but not limited to, the Demand for Information issued to FENOC on May 14, 2007), the timing and outcome of various proceedings before the PUCO (including, but not limited to, the Electric Security Plan and Market Rate Offer proceedings as well as the distribution rate cases and the generation supply plan filing for the Ohio Companies and the successful resolution of the issues remanded to the PUCO by the Ohio Supreme Court regarding the Rate Stabilization Plan and the Rate Certainty Plan, including the recovery of deferred fuel costs), Met-Eds and Penelecs transmission service charge filings with the PPUC (as well as the resolution of the Petitions for Review filed with the Commonwealth Court of Pennsylvania with respect to the transition rate plan for Met-Ed and Penelec), the continuing availability of generating units and their ability to operate at or near full capacity, the ability to comply with applicable state and federal reliability standards, the ability to accomplish or realize anticipated benefits from strategic goals (including employee workforce initiatives), the ability to improve electric commodity margins and to experience growth in the distribution business, the changing market conditions that could affect the value of assets held in the registrants nuclear decommissioning trusts, pension trusts and other trust funds, and cause FirstEnergy to make additional contributions sooner, or in an amount that is larger than currently anticipated, the ability to access the public securities and other capital and credit markets in accordance with FirstEnergys financing plan and the cost of such capital, changes in general economic conditions affecting the registrant, the state of the capital and credit markets affecting the registrant, and the risks and other factors discussed from time to time in the registrants SEC filings, and other similar factors.  The foregoing review of factors should not be construed as exhaustive.  New factors emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for management to predict all such factors, nor assess the impact of any such factor on the registrants business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. Also, a security rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities, and it may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time and each such rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. The registrant expressly disclaims any current intention to update any forward-looking statements contained herein as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
Forward-looking Statements:
 
 
 
 
 


