FILE:FE/FE-8K-20090505103013.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2.):
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On May 5, 2009, FirstEnergy Corp. issued two public documents, which are attached as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 hereto and incorporated by reference. FirstEnergy's Press Release and Consolidated Report to the Financial Community contain non-GAAP* financial measures. Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, FirstEnergy has provided quantitative reconciliations within the Press Release and Consolidated Report to the Financial Community of the non-GAAP* financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
The Press Release and Consolidated Report to the Financial Community include normalized earnings per share, which is not calculated in accordance with GAAP because it excludes the impact of "special items." Special items reflect the impact on earnings of events that are not routine or that may be related to discontinued businesses. Management believes presenting normalized earnings calculated in this manner provides useful information to investors in evaluating the ongoing results of FirstEnergy's businesses and assists investors in comparing FirstEnergys operating performance to the operating performance of other companies in the energy sector. Management believes presenting this non-GAAP* measure provides useful information to investors in assessing FirstEnergy's normalized operating performance. FirstEnergy's management frequently references this non-GAAP* financial measure in its decision-making, using it to facilitate historical and ongoing performance comparisons as well as comparisons to the performance of peer companies.
The non-GAAP* information presented in the Press Release and Consolidated Report to the Financial Community should be considered in addition to, and not as a substitute for, the most directly comparable financial measure prepared in accordance with GAAP. Also, the non-GAAP* financial measure may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other entities.
 Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits.
*This Form 8-K contains non-GAAP financial measures. Generally, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a company's historical or future financial performance, financial position, or cash flows that either excludes or includes amounts, or is subject to adjustment that has the effect of excluding or including amounts, that are not normally excluded or included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, or GAAP.
 
 
2
 
 This Form 8-K includes forward-looking statements based on information currently available to management. Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. These statements include declarations regarding management's intents, beliefs and current expectations. These statements typically contain, but are not limited to, the terms "anticipate," "potential," "expect," "believe," "estimate" and similar words. Forward-looking statements involve estimates, assumptions, known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Actual results may differ materially due to the speed and nature of increased competition in the electric utility industry and legislative and regulatory changes affecting how generation rates will be determined following the expiration of existing rate plans in Ohio and Pennsylvania, the impact of the PUCO's regulatory process on the Ohio Companies associated with the distribution rate case or implementing the recently-approved ESP, including the outcome of any competitive generation procurement process in Ohio, economic or weather conditions affecting future sales and margins, changes in markets for energy services, changing energy and commodity market prices and availability, replacement power costs being higher than anticipated or inadequately hedged, the continued ability of FirstEnergys regulated utilities to collect transition and other charges or to recover increased transmission costs, maintenance costs being higher than anticipated, other legislative and regulatory changes, revised environmental requirements, including possible greenhouse gas emission regulations, the potential impacts of the U.S. Court of Appeals' July 11, 2008 decision requiring revisions to the CAIR rules and the scope of any laws, rules or regulations that may ultimately take their place, the uncertainty of the timing and amounts of the capital expenditures needed to, among other things, implement the AQC Plan (including that such amounts could be higher than anticipated or that certain generating units may need to be shut down) or levels of emission reductions related to the Consent Decree resolving the NSR litigation or other potential regulatory initiatives, adverse regulatory or legal decisions and outcomes (including, but not limited to, the revocation of necessary licenses or operating permits and oversight) by the NRC (including, but not limited to, the Demand for Information issued to FENOC on May 14, 2007), Met-Ed's and Penelec's transmission service charge filings with the PPUC, the continuing availability of generating units and their ability to operate at or near full capacity, the ability to comply with applicable state and federal reliability standards, the ability to accomplish or realize anticipated benefits from strategic goals (including employee workforce initiatives), the ability to improve electric commodity margins and to experience growth in the distribution business, the changing market conditions that could affect the value of assets held in FirstEnergys nuclear decommissioning trusts, pension trusts and other trust funds, and cause it to make additional contributions sooner, or in an amount that is larger than currently anticipated, the ability to access the public securities and other capital and credit markets in accordance with FirstEnergys financing plan and the cost of such capital, changes in general economic conditions affecting the Registrant, the state of the capital and credit markets affecting the Registrant, interest rates and any actions taken by credit rating agencies that could negatively affect FirstEnergys access to financing or its costs and increase requirements to post additional collateral to support outstanding commodity positions, LOCs and other financial guarantees, the continuing decline of the national and regional economy and its impact on FirstEnergys major industrial and commercial customers, issues concerning the soundness of financial institutions and counterparties with which FirstEnergy does business, and the risks and other factors discussed from time to time in the Registrants SEC filings, and other similar factors. The foregoing review of factors should not be construed as exhaustive. New factors emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for management to predict all such factors, nor assess the impact of any such factor on FirstEnergys business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. The Registrant expressly disclaims any current intention to update any forward-looking statements contained herein as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. 
Forward-Looking Statements:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto authorized.
May 5, 2009
 
 
 
 
 
 
4
 

 
                                                                                                                                                                    0;                                                                                                                                           Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
AKRON, OH  FirstEnergy Corp. (NYSE: FE) today reported first quarter 2009 results that reflect the companys strong financial and operational performance, despite very challenging economic conditions.
First quarter 2009 basic earnings per share were $1.02 ($1.01 diluted) on a non-GAAP(*) basis.  These results exclude the impact of regulatory charges associated with implementing the Ohio Electric Security Plan, and other special items, described below.  This compares to first quarter 2008 non-GAAP basic earnings per share of $0.88 ($0.87 diluted).
On a GAAP basis, first quarter net income was $115 million, or basic and diluted earnings of $0.39 per share of common stock, on revenue of $3.33 billion.  First quarter 2008 net income was $277 million, or basic earnings of $0.91 per share of common stock ($0.90 diluted), on revenue of $3.28 billion.
 
 
 
 
While we achieved solid financial and operational results during the first quarter, we continue to face significant challenges related to the slowing economy throughout our region and its effect on electricity sales, said Anthony J. Alexander, president and chief executive officer of FirstEnergy. We will need to remain focused on execution for the remainder of 2009 in order to address issues related to planned generating outages, environmental spending at our Sammis Plant, and our participation in the competitive bidding process in Ohio.
First quarter 2009 results benefited from higher average generation prices compared to the 2008 period.  Results were also driven by higher revenues related to increased wholesale sales, lower financing costs, lower fuel costs, and a lower effective income tax rate compared to the first quarter of 2008.  Results were negatively affected by higher purchased power costs, increased costs related to pension and other post-employment benefits as a result of the downturn in financial markets, higher depreciation expense, and the end of transition cost recovery for Ohio Edison and Toledo Edison.
First quarter 2009 total electric generation sales decreased 2.8 percent compared to the 2008 period.  Sales to the wholesale market increased 9.9 percent for the quarter, while retail sales were down 5.3 percent.  Total distribution deliveries decreased
6.7 percent in the quarter, primarily due to lower demand from industrial customers.
FirstEnergys Consolidated Report to the Financial Community  which provides highlights on company developments and financial results for the year and for the first quarter of 2009  is posted on the companys Web site  To access the report, click on Q1 2009 Consolidated Report to the Financial Community.
www.firstenergycorp.com/i
r
.  
FirstEnergy is a diversified energy company headquartered in Akron, Ohio.  Its subsidiaries and affiliates are involved in the generation, transmission and distribution of electricity, as well as energy management and other energy-related services.  Its seven electric utility operating companies comprise the nations fifth largest investor-owned electric system, based on 4.5 million customers served within a 36,100-square-mile area 
 of Ohio, Pennsylvania and New Jersey; and its generation subsidiaries control more than 14,000 megawatts of capacity.
 
 
 
(*)  This news release contains non-GAAP financial measures.  Generally, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a company's historical or future financial performance, financial position, or cash flows that either excludes or includes amounts that are not normally excluded or included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP).   These non-GAAP financial measures are intended to complement, and not considered as an alternative, to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure.  Also, the non-GAAP financial measures may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other entities.
 
This news release includes forward-looking statements based on information currently available to management. Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. These statements include declarations regarding our management's intents, beliefs and current expectations. These statements typically contain, but are not limited to, the terms "anticipate," "potential," "expect," "believe," "estimate" and similar words. Forward-looking statements involve estimates, assumptions, known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Actual results may differ materially due to the speed and nature of increased competition in the electric utility industry and legislative and regulatory changes affecting how generation rates will be determined following the expiration of existing rate plans in Ohio and Pennsylvania, the impact of the PUCO's regulatory process on the Ohio Companies associated with the distribution rate case or implementing the recently approved ESP, including the outcome of any competitive generation procurement process in Ohio, economic or weather conditions affecting future sales and margins, changes in markets for energy services, changing energy and commodity market prices and availability, replacement power costs being higher than anticipated or inadequately hedged, the continued ability of FirstEnergys regulated utilities to collect transition and other charges or to recover increased transmission costs, maintenance costs being higher than anticipated, other legislative and regulatory changes, revised environmental requirements, including possible greenhouse gas emission regulations, the potential impacts of the U.S. Court of Appeals' July 11, 2008 decision requiring revisions to the CAIR rules and the scope of any laws, rules or regulations that may ultimately take their place, the uncertainty of the timing and amounts of the capital expenditures needed to, among other things, implement the AQC Plan (including that such amounts could be higher than anticipated or that certain generating units may need to be shut down) or levels of emission reductions related to the Consent Decree resolving the NSR litigation or other potential regulatory initiatives, adverse regulatory or legal decisions and outcomes (including, but not limited to, the revocation of necessary licenses or operating permits and oversight) by the NRC (including, but not limited to, the Demand for Information issued to FENOC on May 14, 2007), Met-Ed's and Penelec's transmission service charge filings with the PPUC, the continuing availability of generating units and their ability to operate at or near full capacity, the ability to comply with applicable state and federal reliability standards, the ability to accomplish or realize anticipated benefits from strategic goals (including employee workforce initiatives), the ability to improve electric commodity margins and to experience growth in the distribution business, the changing market conditions that could affect the value of assets held in FirstEnergys nuclear decommissioning trusts, pension trusts and other trust funds, and cause it to make additional contributions sooner, or in an amount that is larger than currently anticipated, the ability to access the public securities and other capital and credit markets in accordance with FirstEnergys financing plan and the cost of such capital, changes in general economic conditions affecting the company, the state of the capital and credit markets affecting the company, interest rates and any actions taken by credit rating agencies that could negatively affect FirstEnergys access to financing or its costs and increase its requirements to post additional collateral to support outstanding commodity positions, letters of credit and other financial guarantees, the continuing decline of the national and regional economy and its impact on FirstEnergys major industrial and commercial customers, issues concerning the soundness of financial institutions and counterparties with which FirstEnergy does business, and the risks and other factors discussed from time to time in its SEC filings, and other similar factors. The foregoing review of factors should not be construed as exhaustive. New factors emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for management to predict all such factors, nor assess the impact of any such factor on its business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. FirstEnergy expressly disclaims any current intention to update any forward-looking statements contained herein as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
Forward-Looking Statements:
 
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.2
 
Consolidated Report
to the Financial Community
First Quarter
2009
 
(Released May 5, 2009)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Consolidated electric generation sales decreased 0.9 million MWH, or 3%.  The reduction in retail generation sales of 1.4 million MWH, or 5% was partially offset by a 0.5 million MWH, or 10% increase in wholesale sales.  (A Summary of Sources of Generation Sales and Power Purchases can be found on page 12.)
 
 
FirstEnergy Solutions Corp. (FES)-supplied generation sales decreased 3.2 million MWH, or 14%.  Such sales to the retail market declined 4.1 million MWH or 21%, primarily due to reduced industrial usage and FES only supplying 75% of the Ohio retail load in the first quarter of 2009 compared to nearly 100% of the Ohio load in the same period last year.  FES-supplied wholesale electricity sales increased 0.8 million MWH or 28%.
 
 
Lower retail generation revenues from sales supplied by FES reduced earnings by $0.12 per share and are attributable to lower generation margins at the Ohio utilities, Metropolitan Edison Company (Met-Ed) and Pennsylvania Electric Company (Penelec) in the first quarter of 2009 totaling $0.07 per share and a $0.05 per share reduction from lower retail generation sales.  The impact from the lower generation revenues is offset by CEI's deferral of purchased power costs incurred as a result of the December 2008 Ohio Request for Proposal (RFP) (see CEI deferred purchased power below).
 
 
Higher FES-supplied wholesale sales increased earnings by $0.15 per share.  Available power was redirected into the MISO wholesale market as FES only supplied approximately 75% of the Ohio retail load in the first quarter of 2009.  Higher sales volume more than offset lower wholesale prices in the first quarter of 2009 compared to the same period last year.
 
 
The Public Utilities Commission of Ohio (PUCO) granted CEI authority in 2009 to defer for future recovery the difference between the cost of purchased power incurred and generation revenues (including the Rate Stabilization Charge from CEIs 2008 rate plan).  The amount of purchased power deferred in the first quarter of 2009 increased earnings by $0.19 per share.
 
 
Lower fuel and purchased power expenses incurred by FES increased earnings by $0.08 per share.  Generation output in the first quarter of 2009 was 18.1 million MWH, a reduction of 2.3 million MWH or 11% compared to the same period last year, primarily from a combination of lower retail generation sales and lower market wholesale prices in the first quarter of 2009.  The decrease in generation output reduced fuel costs by $0.04 per share.  The combination of the reduction in generation sales and third-party suppliers supplying approximately 25% of the Ohio generation sales resulted in lower FES power purchases of 1.5 million MWH, or 44% and increased earnings by $0.04 per share.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2009 Earnings Guidance                                                                                                                                                                         & #160;                                                                                                              
 
FirstEnergy anticipates establishing 2009 earnings guidance following completion of the Ohio competitive bidding process which is scheduled to begin on May 13, 2009.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
*
The 2009 GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliation statements can be found on page 13 of this report and all GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliation statements are available on the Investor Information section of FirstEnergy Corp.'s Web site at
www.firstenergycorp.com/ir
.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For additional information, please contact:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FirstEnergy Corp.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Developments
Recent
 
Financial Matters                                                                                                                                                                         &# 160;                                             
 
Financing Activities
On April 27, 2009, FE Nuclear Generation Corp. (NGC) issued $62.5 million of Pollution Control Revenue Bonds (PCRB) in a 7-year, fixed-rate put mode with a coupon of 5.75%.  The proceeds were used to refund a like amount of NGCs variable-rate PCRBs previously purchased and held by NGC.
On April 24, 2009, TE issued $300 million of 7.25% Senior Secured Notes due May 1, 2020. The proceeds were used to repay short-term debt, fund capital requirements and for other corporate purposes.
On March 31, 2009, FES and FirstEnergy Generation Corp. (FGCO) executed a new $100 million, two-year secured term loan facility with Royal Bank of Scotland Finance Ireland (RBSFI) that replaces an existing $100 million borrowing with RBSFI that was scheduled to expire in November 2009.  The new facility was fully drawn at closing.
On March 10, 2009, $100 million of FGCO PCRBs were converted from variable-rate mode enhanced by Wachovia Letters of Credit (LOCs) to an unenhanced fixed-rate mode secured by First Mortgage Bonds. FGCO converted $50 million into a 2-year, fixed-rate put mode with a coupon of 5.25% and $50 million into a 5.70% fixed rate through maturity February 1, 2014.
Regulatory Matters                                                                                                                                                                         &# 160;                                         
Ohio Regulatory Update
On February 19, 2009, OE, CEI and TE (collectively, the Ohio Companies) reached a stipulated agreement with the PUCO Staff and many intervening parties, which was filed as an Amended Electric Security Plan (Amended ESP). A supplemental stipulation was signed on February 26, 2009 by nearly all of the parties to the case. The PUCO issued an order March 4, 2009, approving a portion of the Amended ESP related to the Ohio Companies providing electric generation service to their customers from April 1, 2009, through May 31, 2009, through a purchase from FES at the average rate resulting from the December 31, 2008, Request for Proposal (RFP). The PUCO also approved the continuation of CEIs purchased power cost deferral (originally authorized in a January 14, 2009, order with authorization expiring March 31, 2009) and found the process the Ohio Companies used to acquire power for the first quarter of 2009 was not imprudent, among other provisions.  On March 25, 2009, the Ohio Companies received approval from the PUCO for the remaining provisions of the Amended ESP, including establishing a method for generation supply and pricing for a two-year period, freezing distribution rates through December 31, 2011, subject to limited exceptions, and a write-off of 50% of CEIs Extended Regulatory Transition Charge balance as of May 31, 2009, amounting to $216 million. On March 30, 2009, the Ohio Companies announced they would implement the Amended ESP, and a Letter to the Investment Community was released to provide a summary of certain significant provisions of the Amended ESP.
On April 15, 2009, the PUCO adopted rules that implement the alternative energy portfolio standard created by Amended Substitute Senate Bill 221 (Ohio SB 221) and incorporate new requirements for energy efficiency, long-term forecast and greenhouse gas reporting and carbon dioxide control planning. Ohios alternative energy portfolio standard requires that at least 25% of electricity sold in the state by electric distribution utilities and electric services companies must be generated from alternative energy resources by 2025. Of this energy, one-half must come from renewable resources (wind, biomass, hydro and fuel cell) and a minimum of 0.5% must come from solar resources. One-half of these renewable energy facilities must be located in Ohio. The adopted rules set forth annual benchmarks that companies must meet to fulfill the renewable energy portion of the portfolio standard with compliance reviewed by the PUCO staff, reported to the PUCO and provided to the Ohio General Assembly with an annual update on statewide compliance. Renewable energy credits may be used to satisfy all or
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
part of the renewable energy benchmarks. The adopted rules also require utilities to report greenhouse gas emissions to the international climate registry and generating facility owners to file environmental and carbon dioxide control plans annually with the PUCO and the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency. The adopted rules are not yet in effect.  The parties have until May 15, 2009, to file for rehearing of the PUCOs decision and upon completion of the rehearing process, the PUCO will file the rules with the Joint Committee on Agency Rule Review (JCARR).  The adopted rules are expected to become effective following completion of the JCARR review process.
Act 129 Peak Demand and Energy Consumption Reductions Approved
Pennsylvania Act 129 of 2008 (Act 129), which requires electric distribution companies to reduce electricity consumption by 1% by May 31, 2011, by 3% by May 31, 2013, and peak demand by 4.5% by May 31, 2013, became effective November 14, 2008. On March 26, 2009, the Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission (PPUC) approved the company-specific energy consumption and peak demand reductions that must be achieved under Act 129 by Met-Ed, Penelec and Pennsylvania Power Company (Penn). Costs associated with achieving the reduction are expected to be recovered from customers. Under Act 129, electric distribution companies must develop and file their energy efficiency and conservation plans complying with these new reduction requirements by July 1, 2009.
 
 
 
Met-Ed and Penelec Transmission Riders
On May 22, 2008, the PPUC approved annual updates to the Met-Ed and Penelec Transmission Service Charge (TSC) Riders for the period June 1, 2008, through May 31, 2009. The PPUC ordered an investigation to review the reasonableness of Met-Eds TSC, which would recover past under-recovered costs of $144 million plus carrying charges over a 31-month period and defer a portion ($92 million) of projected costs for recovery over a 19-month period beginning June 1, 2009, through December 31, 2010. Hearings and briefings were concluded in February 2009. On March 4, 2009, Met-Ed Industrial Users Group (MEIUG) and Penelec Industrial Customer Alliance (PICA) filed a Petition to reopen the record. Met-Ed and Penelec filed objections to MEIUG and PICAs Petition on March 13, 2009, resulting in an April 1, 2009, PPUC order denying MEIUG & PICAs Petition to reopen the record. Met-Ed and Penelec are awaiting a final PPUC decision.
On April 15, 2009, Met-Ed and Penelec filed revised TSCs with the PPUC for the period June 1, 2009, through May 31, 2010, as required under a January 2007 PPUC rate order.  For Penelec customers, the new TSC is expected to result in a 1% decrease in monthly bills reflecting actual transmission costs from PJM Interconnection L.L.C. (PJM). The TSC for Met-Ed customers would increase to recover the significant amount of additional PJM charges paid by Met-Ed. To gradually transition customers to the higher rate, Met-Ed is proposing to continue to recover the prior period deferrals allowed in the May 2008 PPUC Order and defer $57.5 million of projected costs into a future TSC. This is expected to result in an increase in customer bills by approximately 9.4% for June 2009 through May 2010.
Met-Ed and Penelec Customer Prepayment Plan and Procurement Plan
On September 25, 2008, Met-Ed and Penelec filed a Voluntary Pre-payment Plan with the PPUC that would provide an opportunity for residential and small commercial customers to pre-pay approximately 9.6% of their monthly electric bills during 2009 and 2010.  The pre-payments would earn interest at 7.5% and be used to reduce electric bills in 2011 and 2012. Met-Ed, Penelec, Office of Consumer Advocate and Office of Small Business Advocates reached a settlement agreement on the Voluntary Pre-payment Plan, which the PPUC approved on February 26, 2009.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On February 20, 2009, Met-Ed and Penelec filed with the PPUC a generation procurement plan covering the period January 1, 2011, through May 31, 2013. The Companies plan is designed to provide adequate and reliable service through a prudent mix of long-term, short-term and spot market generation supply as required by Pennsylvania law. The plan proposes a staggered procurement schedule, which varies by customer class. On March 30, 2009, Met-Ed and Penelec filed Direct Testimony pursuant to the March 5, 2009, Administrative Law Judge-issued case schedule. The hearings are scheduled for July 15-17, 2009. Main and Reply briefs will be filed in August, and the record is scheduled to close on August 17, 2009. The Companies have requested PPUC approval of their plan by October 2009.
JCP&L Solar Renewable Energy Proposal Approved
On March 27, 2009, the New Jersey Board of Public Utilities approved JCP&Ls proposal to provide financing support for solar generation projects by establishing long-term agreements to purchase and sell Solar Renewable Energy Certificates in the state.  The plan is expected to support the phase-in of approximately 42 megawatts (MW) of solar generating capacity over the next three years to help meet the states Renewable Portfolio Standards through 2012.
Operational Matters                                                                                                                                                                         &# 160;                                        
 
OVEC Participation Interest Sale
On May 1, 2009, FGCO announced the sale of a 9% interest in the output from Ohio Valley Electric Corporation (OVEC) to Buckeye Power Generating LLC for $252 million.  The sale involves the output of 214 MW from OVECs generating facilities in southern Indiana and Ohio.  FGCOs remaining interest in OVEC was reduced to 11.5%. This transaction is expected to increase earnings in the second quarter by $159 million and will be recognized as a special item.
Nuclear Outages
On February 23, 2009, the Perry Nuclear Power Plant in Perry, Ohio, began a scheduled 12th refueling and maintenance outage, in which 280 of the 748 fuel assemblies will be exchanged, safety inspections will be conducted, and several maintenance projects will be completed, including replacement of the recirculation pump motor.
On April 5, 2009, the Davis-Besse Nuclear Power Station in Oak Harbor, Ohio, was taken out of service for scheduled maintenance work. Numerous projects to improve plant reliability were completed and safety inspections were conducted during the outage.  The plant returned to service on April 21, 2009.
On April 20, 2009, the Beaver Valley Power Station Unit 1 in Shippingport, Pennsylvania, began a scheduled refueling and maintenance outage. During the outage, 62 of the 157 fuel assemblies will be exchanged and safety inspections will be conducted. Also, several projects will be completed to ensure continued safe and reliable operations, including maintenance on the cooling tower and the replacement of a pump motor. The unit operated safely and reliably for 545 consecutive days, beating the previous records of 456 days for Unit 1 and 537 days for Unit 2 set in 2006 and 2005, respectively.
R. E. Burger Plant to be Repowered with Biomass
On April 1, 2009, FirstEnergy announced plans to retrofit the two 156-MW coal-fired units at the R.E. Burger Plant to repower with biomass, making Burger one of the largest biomass facilities in the United States.   Retrofitting the Burger Plant will help meet the renewable energy goals set forth in Ohio SB 221, utilize much of the existing infrastructure currently in place, preserve approximately 100 jobs, and continue positive economic support to Belmont County.  The capital cost for retrofitting the plant is expected to be approximately $200 million. The announcement also met a March 31, 2009, deadline to inform the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Ohio whether the company would install scrubbers and other environmental equipment on the units, repower the units, or to shut them down in the next two years as part of the 2005 Consent Decree related to its New Source Review settlement.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FES Retail Activities
FES was licensed in February 2009 to sell electricity to commercial and industrial customers in the Commonwealth Edison service territory of Illinois. FES was previously licensed in the Ameren service territory of the state.  FES is licensed as a retail supplier in seven states  Ohio, Pennsylvania, New Jersey, Maryland, Delaware, Michigan and Illinois  and in the District of Columbia.
On April 16, 2009, FES signed a government aggregation contract that will provide discounted generation prices to residential and small commercial customers in the City of Barberton in Ohio.
JCP&L Selected for Smart Grid Demonstration
JCP&L is one of three companies selected as a smart grid demonstration host site by the Electric Power Research Institute to test the integration of smart grid and other technologies into operations of existing systems. The technologies exhibited during this project may be one solution to accomplishing the goals of the New Jersey Energy Master Plan by meeting future electricity demand.
FirstEnergy Receives Awards
In March, the Edison Electric Institute honored FirstEnergy with the associations Emergency Recovery Award for outstanding efforts in restoring electric power under adverse conditions during the effects of Hurricane Ike.  FirstEnergy was also awarded an Emergency Assistance Award for outstanding assistance after Hurricane Gustav damaged the service territory of Entergy Corporation, a Louisiana-based utility.
FirstEnergy Reorganization
On March 3, 2009, FirstEnergy announced it would reduce its management and support staff by 335 employees. This staffing reduction resulted from a larger effort to enhance efficiencies in response to the global economic downturn. The reduction represents approximately 4% of FirstEnergys non-union workforce. Severance benefits and career counseling services were provided to eligible employees. Total one-time charges associated with the reorganization were approximately $21.7 million, or $0.05 per share of common stock.  Additionally, approximately 4% of non-union employees were affected by the reorganization by either a reassignment or job offer to a different position, which in some cases resulted in a decrease in total compensation.  The reorganization produced the desired effect of reducing the number of management positions with broader spans of control.
Chief Financial Officer Change
On April 8, 2009, the company announced that Richard H. Marsh, senior vice president and chief financial officer (CFO), elected to retire on July 1, 2009, and Mark T. Clark, executive vice president, Strategic Planning and Operations, was elected executive vice president and CFO, effective May 1, 2009.
 
 
 
 
 
This Consolidated Report to the Financial Community includes forward-looking statements based on information currently available to management. Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. These statements include declarations regarding our management's intents, beliefs and current expectations. These statements typically contain, but are not limited to, the terms "anticipate," "potential," "expect," "believe," "estimate" and similar words. Forward-looking statements involve estimates, assumptions, known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Actual results may differ materially due to the speed and nature of increased competition in the electric utility industry and legislative and regulatory changes affecting how generation rates will be determined following the expiration of existing rate plans in Ohio and Pennsylvania, the impact of the PUCOs regulatory process on the Ohio Companies associated with the distribution rate case or implementing the recently-approved ESP, including the outcome of the competitive generation procurement process in Ohio, economic or weather conditions affecting future sales and margins, changes in markets for energy services, changing energy and commodity market prices and availability, replacement power costs being higher than anticipated or inadequately hedged, the continued ability of our regulated utilities to collect transition and other charges or to recover increased transmission costs, maintenance costs being higher than anticipated, other legislative and regulatory changes, revised environmental requirements, including possible greenhouse gas emission regulations, the potential impacts of the U.S. Court of Appeals' July 11, 2008 decision requiring revisions to the CAIR rules and the scope of any laws, rules or regulations that may ultimately take their place, the uncertainty of the timing and amounts of the capital expenditures needed to, among other things, implement the AQC Plan (including that such amounts could be higher than anticipated or that certain generating units may need to be shut down) or levels of emission reductions related to the Consent Decree resolving the NSR litigation or other potential regulatory initiatives, adverse regulatory or legal decisions and outcomes (including, but not limited to, the revocation of necessary licenses or operating permits and oversight) by the NRC (including, but not limited to, the Demand for Information issued to FENOC on May 14, 2007), Met-Ed's and Penelec's transmission service charge filings with the PPUC, the continuing availability of generating units and their ability to operate at or near full capacity, the ability to comply with applicable state and federal reliability standards, the ability to accomplish or realize anticipated benefits from strategic goals (including employee workforce initiatives), the ability to improve electric commodity margins and to experience growth in the distribution business, the changing market conditions that could affect the value of assets held in our nuclear decommissioning trusts, pension trusts and other trust funds, and cause us to make additional contributions sooner, or in an amount that is larger than currently anticipated, the ability to access the public securities and other capital and credit markets in accordance with our financing plan and the cost of such capital, changes in general economic conditions affecting us, the state of the capital and credit markets affecting us, interest rates and any actions taken by credit rating agencies that could negatively affect our access to financing or its costs and increase our requirements to post additional collateral to support outstanding commodity positions, LOCs and other financial guarantees, the continuing decline of the national and regional economy and its impact on our major industrial and commercial customers, issues concerning the soundness of financial institutions and counterparties with which we do business, and the risks and other factors discussed from time to time in our SEC filings, and other similar factors. The foregoing review of factors should not be construed as exhaustive. New factors emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for our management to predict all such factors, nor assess the impact of any such factor on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. We expressly disclaim any current intention to update any forward-looking statements contained herein as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
F
orward-looking Statements:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


