FILE:FE/FE-8K-20091027094414.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2.):
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On October 27, 2009, FirstEnergy Corp. issued two public documents, which are attached as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 hereto and incorporated by reference. FirstEnergy's Press Release and Consolidated Report to the Financial Community contain non-GAAP* financial measures. Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, FirstEnergy has provided quantitative reconciliations within the Press Release and Consolidated Report to the Financial Community of the non-GAAP* financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
The Press Release and Consolidated Report to the Financial Community include normalized earnings per share, which is not calculated in accordance with GAAP because it excludes the impact of "special items." Special items reflect the impact on earnings of events that are not routine or that may be related to discontinued businesses. Management believes presenting normalized earnings calculated in this manner provides useful information to investors in evaluating the ongoing results of FirstEnergy's businesses and assists investors in comparing FirstEnergys operating performance to the operating performance of other companies in the energy sector. Management believes presenting this non-GAAP* measure provides useful information to investors in assessing FirstEnergy's normalized operating performance. FirstEnergy's management frequently references this non-GAAP* financial measure in its decision-making, using it to facilitate historical and ongoing performance comparisons as well as comparisons to the performance of peer companies.
The non-GAAP* information presented in the Press Release and Consolidated Report to the Financial Community should be considered in addition to, and not as a substitute for, the most directly comparable financial measure prepared in accordance with GAAP. Also, the non-GAAP* financial measure may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other entities.
 Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
*This Form 8-K contains non-GAAP financial measures. Generally, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a company's historical or future financial performance, financial position, or cash flows that either excludes or includes amounts, or is subject to adjustment that has the effect of excluding or including amounts, that are not normally excluded or included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, or GAAP.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This Form 8-K includes forward-looking statements based on information currently available to management. Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. These statements include declarations regarding management's intents, beliefs and current expectations. These statements typically contain, but are not limited to, the terms anticipate, potential, expect, believe, estimate and similar words. Forward-looking statements involve estimates, assumptions, known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Actual results may differ materially due to the speed and nature of increased competition in the electric utility industry and legislative and regulatory changes affecting how generation rates will be determined following the expiration of existing rate plans in Pennsylvania, the impact of the Public Utilities Commission of Ohios regulatory process on the Ohio Companies associated with the distribution rate case, economic or weather conditions affecting future sales and margins, changes in markets for energy services, changing energy and commodity market prices and availability, replacement power costs being higher than anticipated or inadequately hedged, the continued ability of FirstEnergys regulated utilities to collect transition and other charges or to recover increased transmission costs, maintenance costs being higher than anticipated, other legislative and regulatory changes, revised environmental requirements, including possible greenhouse gas emission regulations, the potential impacts of the U.S. Court of Appeals July 11, 2008 decision requiring revisions to the Clean Air Interstate Rules and the scope of any laws, rules or regulations that may ultimately take their place, the uncertainty of the timing and amounts of the capital expenditures needed to, among other things, implement the Air Quality Compliance Plan (including that such amounts could be higher than anticipated or that certain generating units may need to be shut down) or levels of emission reductions related to the Consent Decree resolving the New Source Review litigation or other similar potential regulatory initiatives or actions, adverse regulatory or legal decisions and outcomes (including, but not limited to, the revocation of necessary licenses or operating permits and oversight) by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Metropolitan Edison Companys and Pennsylvania Electric Companys transmission service charge filings with the Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission, the continuing availability of generating units and their ability to operate at or near full capacity, the ability to comply with applicable state and federal reliability standards, the ability to accomplish or realize anticipated benefits from strategic goals (including employee workforce initiatives), the ability to improve electric commodity margins and to experience growth in the distribution business, the changing market conditions that could affect the value of assets held in FirstEnergys nuclear decommissioning trusts, pension trusts and other trust funds, and cause it to make additional contributions sooner, or in an amount that is larger than currently anticipated, the ability to access the public securities and other capital and credit markets in accordance with FirstEnergys financing plan and the cost of such capital, changes in general economic conditions affecting the Registrant, the state of the capital and credit markets affecting the Registrant, interest rates and any actions taken by credit rating agencies that could negatively affect FirstEnergys access to financing or its costs or  increase its requirements to post additional collateral to support outstanding commodity positions, letters of credit and other financial guarantees, the continuing decline of the national and regional economy and its impact on the registrants major industrial and commercial customers, issues concerning the soundness of financial institutions and counterparties with which FirstEnergy does business, and the risks and other factors discussed from time to time in the Registrants Securities and Exchange Commission filings, and other similar factors.  The foregoing review of factors should not be construed as exhaustive.  New factors emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for management to predict all such factors, nor assess the impact of any such factor on FirstEnergys business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements.  A security rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities that may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating organization. Each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. The Registrant expressly disclaims any current intention to update any forward-looking statements contained herein as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. 
Forward-Looking Statements:
 
 
 
 
3
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto authorized.
October 27, 2009
 
 
 
 
 
 
4
 
 
 

 
 Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
Akron, Ohio  FirstEnergy Corp. (NYSE: FE) today reported third quarter 2009 basic and diluted earnings of $0.77 per share of common stock on net income of $230 million and revenue of $3.4 billion.  These results include charges related to the tender offer for FirstEnergy notes that was completed in September and restructuring costs.  On a non-GAAP* basis, third quarter basic and diluted earnings were $1.11 per share.
In the third quarter of 2008 basic earnings were $1.55 ($1.54 diluted) per share of common stock on net income of $471 million and revenue of $3.9 billion.  On a non-GAAP basis, third quarter 2008 earnings were $1.60 per share ($1.59 diluted).
 
 
 
 
 
While the economic downturn and mild weather in our service area held down our third quarter results, we remained committed to operational excellence and financial discipline, said FirstEnergy President and Chief Executive Officer Anthony J. Alexander.  We continue to
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
reduce costs, enhance efficiencies, and make progress gaining a larger share of the generation business in Ohio.  However, no one knows with certainty how quickly the economy might turn around, and at this point, we believe it makes sense to narrow our 2009 non-GAAP* earnings guidance to $3.70 to $3.80 per share, from $3.70 to $3.85 per share.
 
 
 
On the distribution side of our business, deliveries from FirstEnergys utilities decreased 10 percent compared to the third quarter of 2008.  Deliveries to residential and commercial customers declined 8 percent and 6 percent respectively  primarily related to mild weather.  Industrial deliveries decreased 16 percent during the quarter due to weak economic conditions.
On the generation side, production decreased compared to the third quarter of 2008 due to lower retail sales opportunities  particularly in Ohio  as well as weak wholesale market demand and prices.  Retail sales were down 11 percent, while sales to the wholesale market decreased 10 percent for the quarter.  Total electric generation sales decreased 11 percent.
In addition to lower sales, results for the third quarter of 2009 were negatively impacted by a reduction in transition cost recovery in Ohio, the absence of a tax benefit that helped earnings in the year-ago quarter, the end of distribution deferrals in December 2008, and higher pension, depreciation and financing costs.
These factors were partially offset by cost reduction efforts and gains realized on the sale of securities held in the companys nuclear decommissioning trusts, which is part of the companys strategy to reduce volatility in fund assets.
 
 
 
2
 
 
Also during the quarter, FirstEnergys operating companies made a voluntary contribution of $500 million to the companys pension plan.  This contribution brings the plans funded status to more than 90 percent on an accumulated benefit obligation basis, which reflects the current value of the plan.
For the first nine months of 2009, basic earnings per share of common stock were
$2.52 ($2.51 diluted) on net income of $754 million and revenue of $10.0 billion.  On a non-GAAP* basis, earnings were $3.00 per share in the first nine months of 2009.  This compares to basic earnings per share of common stock of $3.32 ($3.29 diluted) on net income of $1.0 billion and revenue of $10.4 billion in the prior-year period.  On a non-GAAP basis, earnings were $3.35 per share ($3.32 diluted) in the first nine months of 2008.
FirstEnergys which provides highlights on company developments and financial results for the third quarter of 2009  is posted on the companys Web site  To access the report, click on .
Consolidated Report to the Financial Community 
www.firstenergycorp.com/i
r
.  
Q3 2009
Consolidated Report to the Financial Community
The company invites investors, customers and other interested parties to listen to a live Internet Webcast of its teleconference for financial analysts at 1:00 p.m. Eastern Daylight Time today.  FirstEnergy management will present an overview of the companys financial results for the quarter, followed by a question-and-answer session.  The teleconference can be accessed on the companys Web site by selecting the link.  The Webcast will be archived on the Web site.
Q3 2009 Earnings Conference Call
FirstEnergy is a diversified energy company headquartered in Akron, Ohio.  Its subsidiaries and affiliates are involved in the generation, transmission and distribution of electricity, as well as energy management and other energy-related services.  Its seven electric utility operating companies comprise the nations fifth largest investor-owned electric system, based on 4.5 million customers served within a 36,100-square-mile area of Ohio, Pennsylvania and New Jersey; and its generation subsidiaries control more than 14,000 megawatts of capacity.
 
 
 
 
3
 
 
 
(*)  This news release contains non-GAAP financial measures.  Generally, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a company's historical or future financial performance, financial position, or cash flows that either excludes or includes amounts that are not normally excluded or included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP).   These non-GAAP financial measures are intended to complement, and not considered as an alternative, to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure.  Also, the non-GAAP financial measures may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other entities.
This news release includes forward-looking statements based on information currently available to management. Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. These statements include declarations regarding management's intents, beliefs and current expectations. These statements typically contain, but are not limited to, the terms anticipate, potential, expect, believe, estimate and similar words. Forward-looking statements involve estimates, assumptions, known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Actual results may differ materially due to the speed and nature of increased competition in the electric utility industry and legislative and regulatory changes affecting how generation rates will be determined following the expiration of existing rate plans in Pennsylvania, the impact of the Public Utilities Commission of Ohios regulatory process on the Ohio Companies associated with the distribution rate case, economic or weather conditions affecting future sales and margins, changes in markets for energy services, changing energy and commodity market prices and availability, replacement power costs being higher than anticipated or inadequately hedged, the continued ability of FirstEnergys regulated utilities to collect transition and other charges or to recover increased transmission costs, maintenance costs being higher than anticipated, other legislative and regulatory changes, revised environmental requirements, including possible greenhouse gas emission regulations, the potential impacts of the U.S. Court of Appeals July 11, 2008 decision requiring revisions to the Clean Air Interstate Rules and the scope of any laws, rules or regulations that may ultimately take their place, the uncertainty of the timing and amounts of the capital expenditures needed to, among other things, implement the Air Quality Compliance Plan (including that such amounts could be higher than anticipated or that certain generating units may need to be shut down) or levels of emission reductions related to the Consent Decree resolving the New Source Review litigation or other similar potential regulatory initiatives or actions, adverse regulatory or legal decisions and outcomes (including, but not limited to, the revocation of necessary licenses or operating permits and oversight) by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Metropolitan Edison Companys and Pennsylvania Electric Companys transmission service charge filings with the Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission, the continuing availability of generating units and their ability to operate at or near full capacity, the ability to comply with applicable state and federal reliability standards, the ability to accomplish or realize anticipated benefits from strategic goals (including employee workforce initiatives), the ability to improve electric commodity margins and to experience growth in the distribution business, the changing market conditions that could affect the value of assets held in FirstEnergys nuclear decommissioning trusts, pension trusts and other trust funds, and cause it to make additional contributions sooner, or in an amount that is larger than currently anticipated, the ability to access the public securities and other capital and credit markets in accordance with FirstEnergys financing plan and the cost of such capital, changes in general economic conditions affecting the company, the state of the capital and credit markets affecting the company, interest rates and any actions taken by credit rating agencies that could negatively affect FirstEnergys access to financing or its costs or increase its requirements to post additional collateral to support outstanding commodity positions, letters of credit and other financial guarantees, the continuing decline of the national and regional economy and its impact on the companys major industrial and commercial customers, issues concerning the soundness of financial institutions and counterparties with which FirstEnergy does business, and the risks and other factors discussed from time to time in its Securities and Exchange Commission filings, and other similar factors.  The foregoing review of factors should not be construed as exhaustive.  New factors emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for management to predict all such factors, nor assess the impact of any such factor on FirstEnergys business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. FirstEnergy expressly disclaims any current intention to update any forward-looking statements contained herein as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
Forward-Looking Statements:
 
4
 

 
EXHIBIT 99.2
 
Consolidated Report
to the Financial Community                             
Third Quarter
2009                
(Released October 27, 2009)
(Unaudited)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Consolidated electric generation sales decreased 3.8 million MWH, or 11%.  Retail generation sales decreased 3.1 million MWH, or 11%, while wholesale sales were down 724,000 MWH, or 10%, compared to the same period last year. (A Summary of Sources of Generation Sales and Power Purchases can be found on page 12.)
 
 
FirstEnergy Solutions Corp. (FES)-supplied generation sales decreased 5.3 million MWH, or 23%. Sales to the retail market declined 5.0 million MWH, or 27%, primarily due to FES supplying approximately 65% of the Ohio retail load in the third quarter of 2009 compared to nearly 100% of the Ohio load in the same period last year.  FES-supplied wholesale electricity sales decreased 259,000 MWH, or 6%, due in part to lower available economic generation during the third quarter of 2009.
 
 
Lower generation margins at the Ohio utilities, Metropolitan Edison Company (Met-Ed) and Pennsylvania Electric Company (Penelec) in the third quarter of 2009 reduced earnings by $0.07 per share due to the expiration in 2008 of more favorably-priced power supply agreements.  FES-supplied retail generation sales reduced earnings by $0.37 per share as lower volumes more than offset higher unit prices. The combination of the above items reduced retail generation revenues by $0.44 per share.
 
 
Higher wholesale revenues increased earnings by $0.09 per share.   The increase was attributable to higher PJM Reliability Pricing Model (RPM) capacity revenues at Met-Ed and Penelec ($44 million) in the third quarter of 2009 compared to the same period last year.  FES-supplied wholesale sales were slightly lower as reduced sales volume ($8 million) and lower energy prices ($9 million) offset higher PJM RPM capacity revenues ($16 million)
 
 
Lower fuel expenses, primarily due to reduced generation output, increased earnings by $0.11 per share.  Generation output in the third quarter of 2009 was 17.5 million MWH, a reduction of 4.7 million MWH, or 21%, compared to the same period last year, primarily due to economic factors in the third quarter of 2009.
 
 
Higher purchased power costs reduced earnings by $0.08 per share.  Lower FES power purchases ($68 million) more than offset higher PJM RPM capacity expenses ($56 million) and increased earnings by $0.02 per share.  Higher PJM RPM capacity expenses at Met-Ed and Penelec ($51 million) reduced earnings by $0.10 per share.
 
 
                                                                                                                        
Generation Gross Margin EPS Summary
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2009 Earnings Guidance
 
Normalized non-GAAP* earnings guidance for 2009, excluding special items, is narrowed from $3.70 to $3.85 per share to $3.70 to $3.80 per share.  Year-to-date normalized non-GAAP earnings now stand at $3.00 per share.
 
 
 
*
The 2009 GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliation statements can be found on page 14 of this report and all GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliation statements are available on the Investor Information section of FirstEnergy Corp.'s Web site at
www.firstenergycorp.com/ir
.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For additional information, please contact:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Developments
Recent
 
Financial Matters
Rating Update
Agency
On August 3, 2009, Moody's Investor Service upgraded the senior secured debt ratings of FirstEnergys seven regulated utilities as follows:  CEI  and TE were upgraded to Baa1 from Baa2, and Jersey Central Power & Light Company (JCP&L), Met-Ed, OE, Penelec and Pennsylvania Power Company (Penn) were upgraded to A3 from Baa1.
Financing Activities
On August 7, 2009, FES issued 5, 12 and 30-year unsecured senior notes totaling $1.5 billion. The notes bear interest at an annual rate of 4.80%, 6.05%, and 6.80%, respectively. Proceeds were used to pay down borrowings under the FirstEnergy companies Revolving Credit Facility and other general corporate purposes.
On August 14, 2009, $177 million of pollution control revenue bonds (PCRBs) were issued on behalf of FirstEnergy Generation Corp. (FGCO) relating to air quality compliance expenditures at the Sammis Plant. The bonds have a fixed rate coupon of 5.7% and a maturity date of August 1, 2020.
On August 18, 2009, CEI issued $300 million of FMBs.  The FMBs have a coupon rate of 5.5% and a maturity date of August 15, 2024. A portion of the proceeds will be used to replace $150 million of CEIs 7.43% Series D Secured Notes due 2009. The remaining proceeds were used to repay a portion of CEIs short-term borrowings and other general corporate purposes.
On September 1, 2009, FirstEnergy Corp. completed a cash tender offer for $1.2 billion of 6.45% notes, Series B, due 2011. $250 million is left outstanding on the 2011 6.45% FE Corp. notes.
On September 2, 2009, FirstEnergys regulated utilities contributed $500 million to the pension plan.
 
On September 30, 2009, Penelec issued $500 million of unsecured notes with $250 million maturing in 2020 and $250 million maturing in 2038. The 2020 and 2038 coupons were 5.20% and 6.15%, respectively. Proceeds were used to pay down short-term borrowings, including $250 million borrowed under the FirstEnergy companies Revolving Credit Facility.
On October 1, 2009, FGCO and FirstEnergy Nuclear Generation Corp. (NGC), purchased $81.6 million of PCRBs subject to mandatory purchase.  Subject to market conditions, FGCO and NGC plan to remarket the purchased PCRBs in the near future.
Summary of New Issuances
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Regulatory Matters
Ohio Regulatory Update
On August 6, 2009, the Public Utilities Commission of Ohio (PUCO) withdrew proposed rules it had forwarded to the Joint Committee on Agency Rules Review (JCARR) regarding implementation of the alternative energy portfolio standards created by Senate Bill 221, incorporating energy efficiency requirements, long-term forecasting and planning for greenhouse gas reporting and carbon dioxide control. On October 15, 2009, the PUCO issued modified rules.  On October 16 and October 19, 2009, the PUCO submitted revised rules to JCARR for review.
 
On August 19, 2009, the PUCO approved the Ohio Utilities (OE, CEI and TE) proposal to accelerate the recovery of deferred costs. The principal amount plus carrying charges through August 31, 2009, for these deferrals was approximately $300 million.  Accelerated recovery began September 1, 2009, for collection during the 18 non-summer months through May 31, 2011.
On September 2, 2009, FirstEnergy announced a second Request for Proposal (RFP) to secure Renewable Energy Credits (RECs) for customers of the Ohio Utilities. The RFP includes solar and other renewable energy RECs generated in Ohio. The RECs, combined with those acquired in an initial RFP conducted earlier this year, will be used to help meet the renewable energy requirements established under Senate Bill 221 for 2009, 2010, and 2011.
On October 20, 2009, the Ohio Utilities filed an application with the PUCO for a Market Rate Offer (MRO) to provide electric generation service to retail customers who do not choose alternative energy suppliers. The proposed MRO establishes a Competitive Bidding Process (CBP) to secure generation supply and pricing beginning June 1, 2011. The MRO filing proposes a descending clock, slice-of-system auction similar to the one conducted in May 2009, with a staggered solicitation process.  Solicitations would occur in June and October 2010 for 12, 24 and 36 month products, and would transition into a process in which one-third of the load for the Ohio utilities would be procured each year for three-year products.  The Ohio Utilities have requested PUCO approval by January 18, 2010.
New Jersey Solar Renewable Energy Certificates
On July 30, 2009, JCP&L in collaboration with another New Jersey electric utility, Atlantic City Electric Company (ACE), announced an RFP to secure Solar Renewable Energy Certificates (SREC) as part of the New Jersey Board of Public Utilities' effort to support new solar energy projects. The RFP process was established to help create long-term agreements to purchase and sell SRECs to provide a stable basis for financing new solar generation projects in the companies' service areas. A total of 61 megawatts (MW) of solar generating capacity  19 for ACE and 42 MW for JCP&L  will be solicited to help meet New Jersey Renewable Portfolio Standards. The first solicitation was conducted in August 2009; subsequent solicitations will occur over the next three years.
Met-Ed and Penelec Default Service Plan
On August 12, 2009, Met-Ed and Penelec filed a settlement agreement with the Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission (PPUC) for the generation procurement plan covering the period January 1, 2011, through May 31, 2013, reflecting settlement on all but two issues. The settlement plan is designed to provide adequate and reliable service as required by Pennsylvania law through a prudent mix of long-term, short-term and spot-market generation supply as required by Act 129. The settlement plan proposes a staggered procurement schedule, which varies by customer class. If approved, generation procurement would begin in January 2010.
On September 2, 2009, the Administrative Law Judge (ALJ) issued a Recommended Decision (RD) and adopted the two companies positions on two reserved issues.  Exceptions to the ALJ RD were filed on September 22, 2009, with reply exceptions being filed on October 2, 2009.  The PPUC final decision is expected in November 2009.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pennsylvania Smart Meter Plan
On August 14, 2009, Penn, Met-Ed and Penelec (the Companies) filed a Smart Meter Technology, Procurement and Installation Plan with the PPUC as required by Act 129.  The plan includes proposed tariff riders to recover the costs of implementation of the plan and an assessment period of 24 months to assess needs, select technology, secure vendors, train personnel, install and support test equipment and establish a detailed meter deployment schedule consistent with the requirements of Act 129.  At the end of the assessment period, the Companies will submit to the PPUC a supplement to the plan to set forth in detail the Companies proposal for the full scale deployment of smart meters. The Companies are asking the PPUC to approve, as part of the plan, both the proposed recovery mechanism and the recovery of costs of the assessment period, currently estimated at $29.5 million, through such mechanism. A PPUC technical conference was conducted on October 20, 2009, evidentiary hearings are scheduled for mid-November and the ALJs RD is expected in late January 2010.
Operational Matters
Fremont Energy Center
On September 22, 2009, FirstEnergy announced it expects to complete construction of the Fremont Energy Center by the end of 2010.  Originally acquired in January 2008, the Fremont Energy Center includes two natural gas combined-cycle combustion turbines and a steam turbine capable of producing 544 MW of load-following capacity and 163 MW of peaking capacity. With the accelerated construction schedule, the remaining cost to complete the project is expected to be $180 million.
Nuclear Outage
On October 12, 2009, the Beaver Valley Nuclear Power Station Unit 2, located in Shippingport, Pennsylvania, began a scheduled refueling and maintenance outage. During the outage, 60 of the 157 fuel assemblies will be exchanged and safety inspections conducted.  In addition, numerous improvement projects will be completed to ensure continued safe and reliable operations.  Prior to the outage, the unit had operated safely and reliably for 350 consecutive days.
PJM Regional Transmission Organization (RTO) Integration
On August 17, 2009, FirstEnergy filed an application with the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) to consolidate its transmission assets and operations into PJM Interconnection (PJM). Currently the company's transmission assets and operations are divided between PJM and the Midwest Independent Transmission System Operator (MISO). The consolidation would move the transmission assets that are part of FirstEnergy's American Transmission Systems, Incorporated (ATSI) subsidiary and the generation assets of FES  which are located within the footprint of the Ohio Utilities and Penn  into PJM.  If approved, the consolidation is expected to facilitate providing customers with the benefits of a more fully developed retail choice market, and the company with the operating efficiencies of a single RTO  with one set of rules, procedures and protocols.  To ensure a definitive ruling at the same time FERC rules on its request to integrate ATSI into PJM, on October 19, 2009, FirstEnergy filed a related complaint with FERC on the issue of allocating Regional Transmission Expansion Plan costs to the ATSI footprint for high-voltage transmission projects approved prior to FirstEnergys integration into PJM.
FirstEnergy has requested that FERC rule on its application by December 17, 2009, to provide time to permit management to make a decision on whether to integrate ATSI into PJM prior to the 2010 Base Residual Auction for capacity.  Subject to a satisfactory FERC ruling, the integration is expected to be complete on June 1, 2011, to coincide with delivery of power under the next competitive generation procurement process for the Ohio Utilities.
Voluntary Early Retirement Program
FirstEnergys Voluntary Enhanced Retirement Option (VERO) enrollment period concluded September 16, 2009. The VERO was accepted by a total of 397 non-represented employees and 318 union employees.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FirstEnergy Solutions Offers Economic Support Program
On September 22, 2009, FES introduced Powering Our Communities, an innovative program that offers economic support to communities in the OE, CEI, and TE service areas that purchase discounted electric generation supply from FES through government aggregation programs. The new program will provide up-front grants to local Ohio communities and long-term electric generation price savings.
Smart Grid Proposal
On August 6, 2009, FirstEnergy filed an application for economic stimulus funding with the U.S. Department of Energy under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act that proposed investing $114 million on smart grid technologies to improve the reliability and interactivity of its electric distribution infrastructure in its three-state service area. The application requests $57 million  which represents half of the funding needed for targeted projects in communities served by FirstEnergys electric utility companies.  FirstEnergy will seek to recover the remainder of the funds through retail rates.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This Consolidated Report to the Financial Community includes forward-looking statements based on information currently available to management. Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. These statements include declarations regarding management's intents, beliefs and current expectations. These statements typically contain, but are not limited to, the terms "anticipate," "potential," "expect," "believe," "estimate" and similar words. Forward-looking statements involve estimates, assumptions, known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Actual results may differ materially due to the speed and nature of increased competition in the electric utility industry and legislative and regulatory changes affecting how generation rates will be determined following the expiration of existing rate plans in Pennsylvania, the impact of the Public Utilities Commission of Ohio's regulatory process on the Ohio Companies, associated with the distribution rate case, economic or weather conditions affecting future sales and margins, changes in markets for energy services, changing energy and commodity market prices and availability, replacement power costs being higher than anticipated or inadequately hedged, the continued ability of FirstEnergy's regulated utilities to collect transition and other charges or to recover increased transmission costs, maintenance costs being higher than anticipated, other legislative and regulatory changes, revised environmental requirements, including possible greenhouse gas emission regulations, the potential impacts of the U.S. Court of Appeals' July 11, 2008 decision requiring revisions to the Clean Air Interstate Rules and the scope of any laws, rules or regulations that may ultimately take their place, the uncertainty of the timing and amounts of the capital expenditures needed to, among other things, implement the Air Quality Compliance Plan (including that such amounts could be higher than anticipated or that certain generating units may need to be shut down) or levels of emission reductions related to the Consent Decree resolving the New Source Review litigation or other similar potential regulatory initiatives or actions, adverse regulatory or legal decisions and outcomes (including, but not limited to, the revocation of necessary licenses or operating permits and oversight) by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Metropolitan Edison Company's and Pennsylvania Electric Company's transmission service charge filings with the Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission, the continuing availability of generating units and their ability to operate at or near full capacity, the ability to comply with applicable state and federal reliability standards, the ability to accomplish or realize anticipated benefits from strategic goals (including employee workforce initiatives), the ability to improve electric commodity margins and to experience growth in the distribution business, the changing market conditions that could affect the value of assets held in FirstEnergy's nuclear decommissioning trusts, pension trusts and other trust funds, and cause it to make additional contributions sooner, or in an amount that is larger than currently anticipated, the ability to access the public securities and other capital and credit markets in accordance with FirstEnergy's financing plan and the cost of such capital, changes in general economic conditions affecting the company, the state of the capital and credit markets affecting the company, interest rates and any actions taken by credit rating agencies that could negatively affect FirstEnergy's access to financing or its costs or increase its requirements to post additional collateral to support outstanding commodity positions, letters of credit and other financial guarantees, the continuing decline of the national and regional economy and its impact on the company's major industrial and commercial customers, issues concerning the soundness of financial institutions and counterparties with which FirstEnergy does business, and the risks and other factors discussed from time to time in its Securities and Exchange Commission filings, and other similar factors. A credit rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold debt and it may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time.  Each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating that may be assigned to our securities.  The foregoing review of factors should not be construed as exhaustive. New factors emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for management to predict all such factors, nor assess the impact of any such factor on FirstEnergy's business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. FirstEnergy expressly disclaims any current intention to update any forward-looking statements contained herein as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
F
orward-looking Statements:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


