FILE:FE/FE-8K-20100803091208.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2.):
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On August 3, 2010, FirstEnergy Corp. issued two public documents, which are attached as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 hereto and incorporated by reference. FirstEnergy's Press Release and Consolidated Report to the Financial Community contain non-GAAP* financial measures. Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, FirstEnergy has provided quantitative reconciliations within the Press Release and Consolidated Report to the Financial Community of the non-GAAP* financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
The Press Release and Consolidated Report to the Financial Community include normalized earnings per share, which is not calculated in accordance with GAAP because it excludes the impact of "special items." Special items reflect the impact on earnings of events that are not routine or that may be related to discontinued businesses. Management believes presenting normalized earnings calculated in this manner provides useful information to investors in evaluating the ongoing results of FirstEnergy's businesses and assists investors in comparing FirstEnergys operating performance to the operating performance of other companies in the energy sector. Management believes presenting this non-GAAP* measure provides useful information to investors in assessing FirstEnergy's normalized operating performance. FirstEnergy's management frequently refer ences this non-GAAP* financial measure in its decision-making, using it to facilitate historical and ongoing performance comparisons as well as comparisons to the performance of peer companies.
The non-GAAP* information presented in the Press Release and Consolidated Report to the Financial Community should be considered in addition to, and not as a substitute for, the most directly comparable financial measure prepared in accordance with GAAP. Also, the non-GAAP* financial measure may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other entities.
 Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits.
*This Form 8-K contains non-GAAP financial measures. Generally, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a company's historical or future financial performance, financial position, or cash flows that either excludes or includes amounts, or is subject to adjustment that has the effect of excluding or including amounts, that are not normally excluded or included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, or GAAP.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
This Form 8-K includes forward-looking statements based on information currently available to management. Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. These statements include declarations regarding management's intents, beliefs and current expectations. These statements typically contain, but are not limited to, the terms "anticipate," "potential," "expect," "believe," "estimate" and similar words. Forward-looking statements involve estimates, assumptions, known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Actual results may diffe r materially due to the speed and nature of increased competition in the electric utility industry and legislative and regulatory changes affecting how generation rates will be determined following the expiration of existing rate plans in Pennsylvania, the impact of the regulatory process on the pending matters in Ohio, Pennsylvania and New Jersey, business and regulatory impacts from American Transmission Systems, Incorporated's realignment into PJM Interconnection, L.L.C., economic or weather conditions affecting future sales and margins, changes in markets for energy services, changing energy and commodity market prices and availability, replacement power costs being higher than anticipated or inadequately hedged, the continued ability of FirstEnergy's regulated utilities to collect transition and other charges or to recover increased transmission costs, operating and maintenance costs being higher than anticipated, other legislative and regulatory changes, revised environmental requirements, including po ssible greenhouse gas emission regulations, the potential impacts of the U.S. Court of Appeals' July 11, 2008 decision requiring revisions to the Clean Air Interstate Rules and the scope of any laws, rules or regulations that may ultimately take their place, the uncertainty of the timing and amounts of the capital expenditures needed to, among other things, implement the Air Quality Compliance Plan (including that such amounts could be higher than anticipated or that certain generating units may need to be shut down) or levels of emission reductions related to the Consent Decree resolving the New Source Review litigation or other similar potential regulatory initiatives or actions, adverse regulatory or legal decisions and outcomes (including, but not limited to, the revocation of necessary licenses or operating permits and oversight) by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Metropolitan Edison Company's and Pennsylvania Electric Company's transmission service charge filings with the Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission, the continuing availability of generating units and their ability to operate at or near full capacity, the ability to comply with applicable state and federal reliability standards, the ability to accomplish or realize anticipated benefits from strategic goals (including employee workforce initiatives), the ability to improve electric commodity margins and to experience growth in the distribution business, the changing market conditions that could affect the value of assets held in FirstEnergy's nuclear decommissioning trusts, pension trusts and other trust funds, and cause it to make additional contributions sooner, or in an amount that is larger than currently anticipated, the ability to access the public securities and other capital and credit markets in accordance with FirstEnergy's financing plan and the cost of such capital, changes in general economic conditions affecting the company, the state of the capital and credit markets affecting the company, interest rates and any actions taken b y credit rating agencies that could negatively affect FirstEnergy's access to financing or its costs or increase its requirements to post additional collateral to support outstanding commodity positions, letters of credit and other financial guarantees, the continuing decline of the national and regional economy and its impact on the company's major industrial and commercial customers, issues concerning the soundness of financial institutions and counterparties with which FirstEnergy does business, the expected timing and likelihood of completion of the proposed merger with Allegheny Energy, Inc., including the timing, receipt and terms and conditions of any required governmental and regulatory approvals of the proposed merger that could reduce anticipated benefits or cause the parties to abandon the merger, the diversion of management's time and attention from our ongoing business during this time period, the ability to maintain relationships with customers, employees or suppliers as well as the ability to successfully integrate the businesses and realize cost savings and any other synergies and the risk that the credit ratings of the combined company or its subsidiaries may be different from what the companies expect and the risks and other factors discussed from time to time in its Securities and Exchange Commission filings, and other similar factors. The foregoing review of factors should not be construed as exhaustive. New factors emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for management to predict all such factors, nor assess the impact of any such factor on FirstEnergy's business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. The Registrant expressly disclaims any current intention to update any forward-looking statements contained herein as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
Forward-Looking Statements:  
 
 
 
 
3
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto authorized.
August 3, 2010
 
 
 
 
 
4
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
Akron, Ohio  FirstEnergy Corp. (NYSE: FE) today reported second quarter 2010 basic and diluted earnings of $0.82 per share of common stock on a non-GAAP* basis.  These results exclude the impact of the special items listed below.  This compares to non-GAAP* basic and diluted earnings of $0.87 per share in the second quarter of 2009.  
On a GAAP basis, second quarter 2010 basic and diluted earnings were $0.87 per share on net income of $256 million and revenue of $3.1 billion.  Second quarter 2009 basic and diluted earnings were $1.36 per share of common stock on net income of
$408 million and revenue of $3.3 billion.  Results for the second quarter of 2009 included a gain of $0.52 per share resulting from the sale of a 9 percent participation interest in Ohio Valley Electric Corporation.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
An improved economy, particularly affecting the industrial segment, helped enhance our sales and revenues in the second quarter of 2010, said Anthony J. Alexander, president and chief executive officer.  In addition, we continue to benefit from our successful competitive sales strategy at FirstEnergy Solutions.  As a result of these encouraging signs, we are tightening our non-GAAP* earnings guidance to the upper end of our previous range  from $3.50 to $3.70 per share, to $3.60 to $3.70 per share.
Consolidated electric generation sales in the second quarter of 2010 were up
7 percent compared to 2009.  Sales in the retail market were up 9 percent, while sales in the wholesale market decreased 8 percent  
.
Total distribution deliveries in the second quarter increased 8 percent compared to 2009, driven by a 13 percent increase in usage from industrial customers, particularly in the steel and automotive sectors.  Deliveries to residential customers increased 7 percent, and commercial deliveries increased 5 percent in the quarter, largely due to average temperatures that were higher this year across much of the companys service area.
Second quarter 2010 results also benefited from a lower effective tax rate related to the resolution of formerly uncertain tax positions.  Results were negatively affected by reduced transition cost recovery by Cleveland Electric Illuminating Co., and higher fuel and purchased power costs.
On a non-GAAP* basis, basic and diluted earnings per share of common stock for the first half of 2010 were $1.63 per share, compared to basic earnings of $1.89 per share ($1.88 diluted) in the first half of 2009.
For the first six months of 2010, net income was $405 million, or basic earnings of $1.38 per share of common stock ($1.37 diluted), on revenue of $6.4 billion.  This compares to first-half 2009 net income of $523 million, or $1.75 per basic and diluted share of common stock, on revenue of $6.6 billion.  
 
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
 
 
FirstEnergys Consolidated Report to the Financial Community  which provides highlights on company developments and financial results for the second quarter of 2010  is posted on the companys website  To access the report, click on .
www.firstenergycorp.com/ir
.
 
Q2 2010 Consolidated Report to the Financial Community
The company invites investors, customers and other interested parties to listen to a live Internet webcast of its teleconference for financial analysts at 1:00 p.m. Eastern Daylight Time today.  FirstEnergy management will present an overview of the companys financial results for the quarter, followed by a question-and-answer session.  The teleconference can be accessed on the companys website by selecting the link.  The webcast will be archived on the website.
Q2 2010 Earnings Conference Call
FirstEnergy is a diversified energy company headquartered in Akron, Ohio.  Its subsidiaries and affiliates are involved in the generation, transmission and distribution of electricity, as well as energy management and other energy-related services.  Its seven electric utility operating companies comprise the nations fifth largest investor-owned electric system, based on 4.5 million customers served within a 36,100-square-mile area of Ohio, Pennsylvania and New Jersey; and its generation subsidiaries control more than 14,000 megawatts of capacity.
 
(*)  This news release contains non-GAAP financial measures.  Generally, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a company's historical or future financial performance, financial position, or cash flows that either excludes or includes amounts that
 
 
 
 
3
 
 
 
are not normally excluded or included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP).   These non-GAAP financial measures are intended to complement, and not considered as an alternative, to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure.  Also, the non-GAAP financial measures may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other entities.
 
 
This news release includes forward-looking statements based on information currently available to management. Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. These statements include declarations regarding management's intents, beliefs and current expectations. These statements typically contain, but are not limited to, the terms "anticipate," "potential," "expect," "believe," "estimate" and similar words. Forward-looking statements involve estimates, assumptions, known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Actual results may differ mater ially due to the speed and nature of increased competition in the electric utility industry and legislative and regulatory changes affecting how generation rates will be determined following the expiration of existing rate plans in Pennsylvania, the impact of the regulatory process on the pending matters in Ohio, Pennsylvania and New Jersey, business and regulatory impacts from American Transmission Systems, Incorporated's realignment into PJM Interconnection, L.L.C., economic or weather conditions affecting future sales and margins, changes in markets for energy services, changing energy and commodity market prices and availability, replacement power costs being higher than anticipated or inadequately hedged, the continued ability of FirstEnergy's regulated utilities to collect transition and other charges or to recover increased transmission costs, operating and maintenance costs being higher than anticipated, other legislative and regulatory changes, revised environmental requirements, including possible greenhouse gas emission regulations, the potential impacts of the U.S. Court of Appeals' July 11, 2008 decision requiring revisions to the Clean Air Interstate Rules and the scope of any laws, rules or regulations that may ultimately take their place, the uncertainty of the timing and amounts of the capital expenditures needed to, among other things, implement the Air Quality Compliance Plan (including that such amounts could be higher than anticipated or that certain generating units may need to be shut down) or levels of emission reductions related to the Consent Decree resolving the New Source Review litigation or other similar potential regulatory initiatives or actions, adverse regulatory or legal decisions and outcomes (including, but not limited to, the revocation of necessary licenses or operating permits and oversight) by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Metropolitan Edison Company's and Pennsylvania Electric Company's transmission service charge filings with the Pennsylvania Public Utility Commis sion, the continuing availability of generating units and their ability to operate at or near full capacity, the ability to comply with applicable state and federal reliability standards, the ability to accomplish or realize anticipated benefits from strategic goals (including employee workforce initiatives), the ability to improve electric commodity margins and to experience growth in the distribution business, the changing market conditions that could affect the value of assets held in FirstEnergy's nuclear decommissioning trusts, pension trusts and other trust funds, and cause it to make additional contributions sooner, or in an amount that is larger than currently anticipated, the ability to access the public securities and other capital and credit markets in accordance with FirstEnergy's financing plan and the cost of such capital, changes in general economic conditions affecting the company, the state of the capital and credit markets affecting the company, interest rates and any actions taken by credi t rating agencies that could negatively affect FirstEnergy's access to financing or its costs or increase its requirements to post additional collateral to support outstanding commodity positions, letters of credit and other financial guarantees, the continuing decline of the national and regional economy and its impact on the company's major industrial and commercial customers, issues concerning the soundness of financial institutions and counterparties with which FirstEnergy does business, the expected timing and likelihood of completion of the proposed merger with Allegheny Energy, Inc., including the timing, receipt and terms and conditions of any required governmental and regulatory approvals of the proposed merger that could reduce anticipated benefits or cause the parties to abandon the merger, the diversion of management's time and attention from our ongoing business during this time period, the ability to maintain relationships with customers, employees or suppliers as well as the ability to success fully integrate the businesses and realize cost savings and any other synergies and the risk that the credit ratings of the combined company or its subsidiaries may be different from what the companies expect and the risks and other factors discussed from time to time in its Securities and Exchange Commission filings, and other similar factors. The foregoing review of factors should not be construed as exhaustive. New factors emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for management to predict all such factors, nor assess the impact of any such factor on FirstEnergy's business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. FirstEnergy expressly disclaims any current intention to update any forward-looking statements contained herein as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
Forward-Looking Statements:
 
4
 

 
EXHIBIT 99.2
              
 
       
Report
Consolidated
 to the Financial Community                                                                           
Second Quarter 2010
 
(Unaudited) 
(Released August 3, 2010)
 
 
 
 
 
FirstEnergy Solutions Corp.s (FES) generation sales increased 2.9 million MWH, or 20%, and increased earnings by $0.21 per share.  FirstEnergy successfully executed its retail strategy by switching customers in Ohio from Provider of Last Resort (POLR) to the direct and governmental aggregation sales channels.    FES retail sales also grew significantly in all other markets it serves, with expansion into multiple new territories, including the Columbus and Dayton Ohio areas, as well as PPLs service territory in Pennsylvania.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FES wholesale electricity sales decreased 468,000 MWH, or 22%, reducing earnings by $0.06 per share.
 
 
 
 
Net PJM RPM capacity revenues and expenses reduced earnings by $0.07 per share due to increased capacity rates as of June 1, 2010.  Capacity expenses for FES, Metropolitan Edison Company (Met-Ed) and Pennsylvania Electric Company (Penelec) reduced earnings by $0.13 per share, while capacity revenues increased earnings by $0.06 per share.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Commodity Margin EPS Summary
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                            
 
 
 
 
 
2010 Earnings Guidance
Normalized non-GAAP* earnings guidance for 2010, excluding special items, has been revised to $3.60 to $3.70 per share from our previous non-GAAP guidance of $3.50 to $3.70 per share.  Year-to-date normalized non-GAAP earnings now stand at $1.63 per share.
 
 
 
 
*
The 2010 GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliation statements can be found on page 16 of this report and all GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliation statements are available on the Investor Information section of FirstEnergy Corp.'s website at
www.firstenergycorp.com/ir
.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Recent
Developments
 
Merger Matters
FERC
On May 11, 2010, FirstEnergy (FE) and Allegheny Energy (AYE) filed an application with the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) for approval of their proposed merger. Under the Federal Power Act, FERC has 180 days to rule on the merger application. FE and AYE subsequently submitted additional information regarding the merger application which was requested by FERC. Interventions and protests were filed with the FERC on July 12, 2010.
 
State Regulatory Filings
On May 14 and May 18, 2010, FE and AYE filed applications with the Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission (PAPUC) and the Public Service Commission of West Virginia, respectively, for approval of their proposed merger. On May 27, 2010, FE and AYE filed an application for approval of the proposed merger with the Maryland Public Service Commission (MDPSC). The MDPSC is required to issue an order no later than 180 days after an application is filed, but for good cause MDPSC may give itself a 45-day extension which it did when it issued its initial order on June 24, 2010.  On June 14, 2010, FE and AYE completed their application with the Virginia State Corporation Commission (VSCC) for approval of their proposed merger. VSCC is required to rule on the merger application in 60 days, subject to up to a 120-day extension.  In its or der issued on June 25, 2010, the VSCC extended the period for its review by 30 days; therefore, the companies expect a decision by September 13, 2010.  Pennsylvania and West Virginia laws impose no statutory timeframe for their commissions consideration of a merger application, but procedural schedules have been established; and final decisions are anticipated in January and February, respectively.
Hart-Scott-Rodino (HSR) Act Filings
On May 25, 2010, FE and AYE made HSR filings with the Department of Justice (DOJ) and Federal Trade Commission. On June 24, 2010, FE and AYE each received a request for additional information from the DOJ, which extends the HSR Act waiting period for an additional 30 days from the date that the requested information is supplied to the DOJ.
 
S-4 Registration Statement
In June and July 2010,
 
FE and AYE filed amended Form S-4 registration statements with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The Form S-4 registration statement, as amended, was declared effective by the SEC on July 16, 2010. The official record date for shareholders permitted to vote at the special shareholder meeting is July 16, 2010, and the FE and AYE special shareholder meetings are both scheduled for September 14, 2010.
Financial Matters
Financing Activities
On June 1, 2010, FirstEnergy Generation Corp. (FGCO) purchased $15 million of fixed rate Pollution Control Revenue Bonds (PCRBs) originally issued on its behalf.   Subject to market conditions, FGCO plans to remarket the $15 million of PCRBs, as well as an additional $235 million PCRBs purchased in April, in the near future.
On June 1, 2010, Penn Power redeemed $1 million of 5.40% Environmental Improvement Revenue Bonds, 1993 Series A, due October 1, 2013, and on July 30, 2010, redeemed $6.5 million of 7.65% First Mortgage Bonds Series of 1993 due in 2023.
In May of 2010, FE terminated fixed-for-floating interest rate swap agreements with a notional value of $3.15 billion, which resulted in cash proceeds of $43.1 million. These proceeds will generally be amortized to earnings over the life of the underlying debt.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Effective June 1, 2010, FE executed multiple fixed-for-floating interest rate swap agreements with a combined notional value of $3.2 billion, which essentially replaced the swap agreements terminated in May of 2010. As of June 30, 2010, the debt underlying the $3.2 billion outstanding notional amount of interest rate swaps had a weighted average fixed interest rate of 6%, which the swaps have converted to a current weighted average variable rate of 4%.
On July 16, 2010, FE terminated these fixed-for-floating interest rate swap agreements with a notional value of $3.2 billion, which resulted in cash proceeds of $83.6 million. These proceeds will generally be amortized to earnings over the life of the underlying debt.
Regulatory Matters
Ohio Electric Security Plan (ESP)
OE, CEI and TE (collectively the Ohio Companies) filed a second Supplemental Stipulation with the PUCO on July 22, 2010, to supplement the ESP Stipulation filed on March 23, 2010, and the Supplemental Stipulation filed on May 13, 2010.  An additional four signatories were included in the Supplemental Stipulations, joining the Ohio Companies and 17 original signatory parties that support the ESP.  A final PUCO order is pending.
Significantly Excessive Earnings Test (SEET)
On June 30, 2010, the PUCO issued an order that requires each electric utility in Ohio to file a SEET application by July 15, 2010.   Subsequent to that order, the PUCO extended the filing date to September 1, 2010.
Met-Ed and Penelec Transmission Service Charges (TSC)
On May 20, 2010, the PAPUC approved the revised TSC for Metropolitan Edison (Met-Ed) and Pennsylvania Electric (Penelec). The revised TSC rates were slightly increased for Met-Ed and slightly decreased for Penelec, and are effective for the period of June 1, 2010 to December 31, 2010.  The PAPUCs Order of March 3, 2010, which denies the recovery of marginal transmission losses through the TSC for the period of June 1, 2007 through March 31, 2008, remains subject to an appeal that is currently pending in the Commonwealth Court of Pennsylvania.
Met-Ed and Penelec Default Service Plan
On May 27, 2010, the PAPUC approved the results of the third of four auctions held to procure the default service requirements for Met-Ed and Penelec customers who choose not to shop with an alternative supplier.  For the five-month period of January 1, 2011 to May 31, 2011, the tranche-weighted average prices ($/MWh) for Met-Eds residential and commercial classes were $72.81 and $72.29, respectively; Penelecs tranche-weighted average prices were $62.04 and $63.35 for its residential and commercial classes, respectively.  There will be another auction in October 2010 to procure the remaining supply for this period.  The May 2010 auction was also the first of four auctions to procure commercial default service requirements for the 12-month period of June 1, 2011 to May 31, 2012 and residential requireme nts for the 24-month period of June 1, 2011 to May 31, 2013.   For Met-Ed and Penelec commercial customers the tranche-weighted average price ($/MWh) was $66.32 and $57.60, respectively, and for residential customers the tranche-weighted average price was $68.55 and $58.43, respectively.  The remaining three auctions for these products will be conducted in October 2010, January 2011, and March 2011.
Department of Energy (DOE) Smart Grid Grants
On June 3, 2010, FE and the DOE signed grants totaling $57.4 million that were awarded as part of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act to introduce smart grid technologies in targeted areas in Pennsylvania, Ohio, and New Jersey.  The DOE grants represent 50% of the funding for the $114.9 million FE investment in smart grid technologies; the PAPUC and the State of New Jersey Board of Public Utilities have already approved recovery for the remaining portion of smart grid costs.  The PUCO issued an order on June 30, 2010, approving FEs smart grid program, but FE has delayed implementation of the Ohio portion of the program until there is more certainty regarding cost recovery for the portion of the costs not covered by the grant.
 
 
 
                                             
                                 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reliability Pricing Model (RPM) Base Residual Auction
On May 14, 2010, PJM released the results of the 2013/2014 RPM Base Residual Auction.  The auction cleared 152,743 MW of unforced capacity in the RTO Zone, which includes the ATSI zone, at the Resource Clearing Price of $27.73/MW-day.  The Clearing Price in MAAC, which includes Met-Ed and Penelec zones, and EMAAC which includes the Jersey Central zone, were $226.15/MW-day and $245.00/MW-day, respectively.
Jersey Central Power & Light (JCP&L) Rate Filing
On July 26, 2010, JCP&L filed a request with the New Jersey Board of Public Utilities (BPU) for a rate decrease of $180 million in its Non-utility Generation Clause (NGC). The NGC reflects costs associated with contracts previously approved by the BPU for approximately 900 megawatts of non-utility generation capacity that JCP&L was required to enter into under the Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act (PURPA). The decrease is related to changes in JCP&Ls long-term contracts with non-utility generators and would become effective January 1, 2011, pending approval by the BPU.
Operational Matters
Davis-Besse Refueling Outage
On June 3, 2010, modifications of 24 of the 69 nozzles on the reactor head were completed at Davis-Besse Nuclear Power Station (Davis-Besse) and Davis-Besse returned to service on June 29, 2010.  These nozzles were identified during Davis-Besses 16 refueling outage and reactor head inspection which began February 28, 2010.  The plant was originally scheduled to have a new reactor head installed in 2014.  This timeline was voluntarily accelerated, and FE announced that a new reactor head will be installed in the fall of 2011.  The new head was manufactured in France and will arrive at the plant in the fall of 2010 to undergo a series of pre-service inspections.
th
Legacy Power Contracts
In July 2010, FES entered into financial transactions that offset the mark-to-market impact of legacy purchased power contracts totaling 500 MW entered into in 2008 for delivery in 2010 and 2011 and which were marked-to-market beginning in December 2009.  These financial transactions eliminate the volatility in GAAP earnings associated with marking these contracts to market through the end of 2011.
 
                                             
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This Consolidated Report to the Financial Community includes forward-looking statements based on information currently available to management. Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. These statements include declarations regarding management's intents, beliefs and current expectations. These statements typically contain, but are not limited to, the terms "anticipate," "potential," "expect," "believe," "estimate" and similar words. Forward-looking statements involve estimates, assumptions, known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. A ctual results may differ materially due to the speed and nature of increased competition in the electric utility industry and legislative and regulatory changes affecting how generation rates will be determined following the expiration of existing rate plans in Pennsylvania, the impact of the regulatory process on the pending matters in Ohio, Pennsylvania and New Jersey, business and regulatory impacts from American Transmission Systems, Incorporated's realignment into PJM Interconnection, L.L.C., economic or weather conditions affecting future sales and margins, changes in markets for energy services, changing energy and commodity market prices and availability, replacement power costs being higher than anticipated or inadequately hedged, the continued ability of FirstEnergy's regulated utilities to collect transition and other charges or to recover increased transmission costs, operating and maintenance costs being higher than anticipated, other legislative and regulatory changes, revised environmental req uirements, including possible greenhouse gas emission regulations, the potential impacts of the U.S. Court of Appeals' July 11, 2008 decision requiring revisions to the Clean Air Interstate Rules and the scope of any laws, rules or regulations that may ultimately take their place, the uncertainty of the timing and amounts of the capital expenditures needed to, among other things, implement the Air Quality Compliance Plan (including that such amounts could be higher than anticipated or that certain generating units may need to be shut down) or levels of emission reductions related to the Consent Decree resolving the New Source Review litigation or other similar potential regulatory initiatives or actions, adverse regulatory or legal decisions and outcomes (including, but not limited to, the revocation of necessary licenses or operating permits and oversight) by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Metropolitan Edison Company's and Pennsylvania Electric Company's transmission service charge filings with the Penn sylvania Public Utility Commission, the continuing availability of generating units and their ability to operate at or near full capacity, the ability to comply with applicable state and federal reliability standards, the ability to accomplish or realize anticipated benefits from strategic goals (including employee workforce initiatives), the ability to improve electric commodity margins and to experience growth in the distribution business, the changing market conditions that could affect the value of assets held in FirstEnergy's nuclear decommissioning trusts, pension trusts and other trust funds, and cause it to make additional contributions sooner, or in an amount that is larger than currently anticipated, the ability to access the public securities and other capital and credit markets in accordance with FirstEnergy's financing plan and the cost of such capital, changes in general economic conditions affecting the company, the state of the capital and credit markets affecting the company, interest rates and any actions taken by credit rating agencies that could negatively affect FirstEnergy's access to financing or its costs or increase its requirements to post additional collateral to support outstanding commodity positions, letters of credit and other financial guarantees, the continuing decline of the national and regional economy and its impact on the company's major industrial and commercial customers, issues concerning the soundness of financial institutions and counterparties with which FirstEnergy does business, the expected timing and likelihood of completion of the proposed merger with Allegheny Energy, Inc., including the timing, receipt and terms and conditions of any required governmental and regulatory approvals of the proposed merger that could reduce anticipated benefits or cause the parties to abandon the merger, the diversion of management's time and attention from our ongoing business during this time period, the ability to maintain relationships with customers, employees or suppliers as well as the ability to successfully integrate the businesses and realize cost savings and any other synergies and the risk that the credit ratings of the combined company or its subsidiaries may be different from what the companies expect and the risks and other factors discussed from time to time in its Securities and Exchange Commission filings, and other similar factors. The foregoing review of factors should not be construed as exhaustive. New factors emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for management to predict all such factors, nor assess the impact of any such factor on FirstEnergy's business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. FirstEnergy expressly disclaims any current intention to update any forward-looking statements contained herein as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
Forward-Looking Statements:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


