FILE:FE/FE-8K-20110802093528.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2.):
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On August 2, 2011, FirstEnergy Corp. issued two public documents, which are attached as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 hereto and incorporated by reference. FirstEnergy's Press Release and Consolidated Report to the Financial Community contain non-GAAP* financial measures. Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, FirstEnergy has provided quantitative reconciliations within the Press Release and Consolidated Report to the Financial Community of the non-GAAP* financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
The Press Release and Consolidated Report to the Financial Community contain references to non-GAAP* financial measures including, among others, normalized earnings per share, which are not calculated in accordance with GAAP because they exclude the impact of "special items." Special items reflect the impact on earnings of events that are not routine or that may be related to discontinued businesses. Management believes presenting normalized earnings calculated in this manner provides useful information to investors in evaluating the ongoing results of FirstEnergy's businesses and assists investors in comparing FirstEnergys operating performance to the operating performance of other companies in the energy sector. Management believes presenting this non-GAAP* measure provides useful information to investors in assessing FirstEnergy's normalized operating performance. FirstEnergy's management frequently references this non-GAAP* financial measure in its decision-making, using it to facilitate historical and ongoing performance comparisons as well as comparisons to the performance of peer companies.
The non-GAAP* information presented in the Press Release and Consolidated Report to the Financial Community should be considered in addition to, and not as a substitute for, the most directly comparable financial measure prepared in accordance with GAAP. Also, the non-GAAP* financial measure may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other entities.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
*This Form 8-K contains non-GAAP financial measures. Generally, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a company's historical or future financial performance, financial position, or cash flows that either excludes or includes amounts, or is subject to adjustment that has the effect of excluding or including amounts, that are not normally excluded or included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, or GAAP.
 
 
 
2
 
 
Forward-Looking Statements:  
This Form 8-K includes forward-looking statements based on information currently available to management. Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. These statements include declarations regarding managements intents, beliefs and current expectations. These statements typically contain, but are not limited to, the terms anticipate, potential, expect, believe, estimate and similar words. Forward-looking statements involve estimates, assumptions, known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Actual results may differ materially due to: the speed and nature of increased competition in the electric utility industry, the impact of the regulatory process on the pending matters in the various states in which we do business including, but not limited to, matters related to rates, the status of the PATH project in light of PJM's direction to suspend work on the project pending review of its planning process, its re-evaluation of the need for the project and the uncertainty of the timing and amounts of any related capital expenditures, business and regulatory impacts from ATSIs realignment into PJM Interconnection, L.L.C, economic or weather conditions affecting future sales and margins, changes in markets for energy services, changing energy and commodity market prices and availability, financial derivative reforms that could increase our liquidity needs and collateral costs, the continued ability of FirstEnergys regulated utilities to collect transition and other costs, operation and maintenance costs being higher than anticipated, other legislative and regulatory changes, and revised environmental requirements, including possible GHG emission, water intake and coal combustion residual regulations, the potential impacts of any laws, rules or regulations that ultimately replace CAIR including the Cross-State Air Pollution Rule (CSAPR) and the effects of the EPAs recently released MACT proposal to establish certain mercury and other emission standards for electric generating units, the uncertainty of the timing and amounts of the capital expenditures that may arise in connection with any NSR litigation or potential regulatory initiatives or rulemakings (including that such expenditures could result in our decision to shut down or idle certain generating units), adverse regulatory or legal decisions and outcomes with respect to our nuclear operations (including, but not limited to, the revocation or non-renewal of necessary licenses, approvals or operating permits by the NRC, including as a result of the incident at Japans Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Plant), adverse legal decisions and outcomes related to Met-Eds and Penelecs ability to recover certain transmission costs through their transmission service charge riders, the continuing availability of generating units and changes in their ability to operate at or near full capacity, replacement power costs being higher than anticipated or inadequately hedged, the ability to comply with applicable state and federal reliability standards and energy efficiency mandates, changes in customers demand for power, including but not limited to, changes resulting from the implementation of state and federal energy efficiency mandates, the ability to accomplish or realize anticipated benefits from strategic goals, efforts, and our ability to improve electric commodity margins and the impact of, among other factors, the increased cost of coal and coal transportation on such margins, the ability to experience growth in the distribution business, the changing market conditions that could affect the value of assets held in FirstEnergys nuclear decommissioning trusts, pension trusts and other trust funds, and cause FirstEnergy to make additional contributions sooner, or in amounts that are larger than currently anticipated, the ability to access the public securities and other capital and credit markets in accordance with FirstEnergys financing plan, the cost of such capital and overall condition of the capital and credit markets affecting FirstEnergy and its subsidiaries, changes in general economic conditions affecting FirstEnergy and its subsidiaries, interest rates and any actions taken by credit rating agencies that could negatively affect FirstEnergys and its subsidiaries access to financing or their costs and increase requirements to post additional collateral to support outstanding commodity positions, LOCs and other financial guarantees, the continuing uncertainty of the national and regional economy and its impact on the major industrial and commercial customers of FirstEnergys subsidiaries, issues concerning the soundness of financial institutions and counterparties with which FirstEnergy and its subsidiaries do business, issues arising from the recently completed merger of FirstEnergy and Allegheny Energy, Inc. and the ongoing coordination of their combined operations including FirstEnergys ability to maintain relationships with customers, employees or suppliers, as well as the ability to successfully integrate the businesses and realize cost savings and any other synergies and the risk that the credit ratings of the combined company or its subsidiaries may be different from what the companies expect, the risks and other factors discussed from time to time in FirstEnergys and its applicable subsidiaries SEC filings, and other similar factors. Dividends declared from time to time on FirstEnergy's common stock during any annual period may in aggregate vary from the indicated amount due to circumstances considered by FirstEnergy's Board of Directors at the time of the actual declarations. A security rating is not a recommendation to buy, or hold securities and is subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating agency. Each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. The foregoing review of factors should not be construed as exhaustive. New factors emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for management to predict all such factors, nor assess the impact of any such factor on FirstEnergys business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. The Registrant expressly disclaims any current intention to update any forward-looking statements contained herein as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
 
 
 
3
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
August 2, 2011
 
 
 
 
4
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
Akron, Ohio  FirstEnergy Corp. (NYSE: FE) today announced second quarter 2011 basic earnings of $0.65 per share of common stock ($0.64 diluted) on a non-GAAP* basis.  These results exclude the impact of special items listed below.  This compares to basic and diluted non-GAAP earnings of $0.82 per share in the second quarter of 2010.
On a GAAP basis, second quarter 2011 basic and diluted earnings were $0.43 per share of common stock on net income of $171 million and revenue of $4.1 billion.  Second quarter 2010 basic and diluted GAAP earnings were $0.87 per share on net income of $256 million, with revenue of $3.1 billion.
These results are in line with our expectations, and today we are narrowing our 2011 non-GAAP earnings guidance to the upper end of the previous range  to $3.30 to $3.50 per share, from $3.20 to $3.50 per share, said FirstEnergy President and Chief Executive Officer Anthony J. Alexander.  We have already made significant progress in realizing benefits from the merger with Allegheny Energy, and we remain confident that we will achieve our 2011 merger targets.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Second quarter 2011 non-GAAP* results benefited from the net accretion from the Allegheny merger, including the impact of shares issued in the merger.  Results were negatively affected by higher maintenance costs for the generation fleet (principally nuclear refueling outage costs), lower commodity margin from FirstEnergy Solutions resulting from unplanned generating unit outages, higher financing costs, and the absence of favorable tax settlements that were achieved last year.
Distribution deliveries, excluding Allegheny Energy deliveries, decreased 1 percent in the quarter.  Usage by industrial customers decreased less than 1 percent, as higher usage in the steel sector was offset by decreased demand in the automotive and refinery industries.  Residential sales decreased slightly, and commercial deliveries decreased 2 percent.
Commodity margins for FirstEnergy Solutions decreased compared to the second quarter of 2010, as higher competitive generation sales were offset by increases in transmission expense, higher purchased power costs, and lower wholesale sales.
For the first six months of 2011, net income was $216 million, or basic and diluted earnings of $0.61 per share of common stock, on revenue of $7.6 billion.  This compares to first-half 2010 net income of $405 million, or basic earnings of $1.38 per share of common stock ($1.37 diluted), on revenue of $6.4 billion.
 
 
 
 
2
 
FirstEnergys Consolidated Report to the Financial Community  which provides highlights on company developments and financial results for the second quarter of 2011  is posted on the companys Investor Information website  . To access the report, click on
www.firstenergycorp.com/ir
Second Quarter 2011 Consolidated Report to the Financial Community.
The company invites investors, customers and other interested parties to listen to a live Internet webcast of its teleconference for financial analysts at 1:00 p.m. Eastern Daylight Time today.  FirstEnergy management will present an overview of the companys financial results for the quarter, followed by a question-and-answer session.  The teleconference can be accessed on the companys website by selecting the link.  The webcast will be archived on the website.
Q2 2010 Earnings Conference Call
 
 
 
 
 
FirstEnergy is a diversified energy company dedicated to safety, reliability and operational excellence.  Its ten electric distribution companies comprise the nations largest investor-owned electric system.  Its diverse generating fleet features non-emitting nuclear, scrubbed baseload coal, natural gas, and pumped-storage hydro and other renewables, and has a total generating capacity of approximately 23,000 megawatts.
(*)  This news release contains non-GAAP financial measures.  Generally, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a company's historical or future financial performance, financial position, or cash flows that either excludes or includes amounts that are not normally excluded or included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP).   These non-GAAP financial measures are intended to complement, and not considered as an alternative to, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure.  Also, the non-GAAP financial measures may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other entities.
 
 
 
 
3
 
This news release includes forward-looking statements based on information currently available to management. Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. These statements include declarations regarding managements intents, beliefs and current expectations. These statements typically contain, but are not limited to, the terms anticipate, potential, expect, believe, estimate and similar words. Forward-looking statements involve estimates, assumptions, known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Actual results may differ materially due to: the speed and nature of increased competition in the electric utility industry. the impact of the regulatory process on the pending matters in the various states in which we do business including, but not limited to, matters related to rates, the status of the PATH project in light of PJM's direction to suspend work on the project pending review of its planning process, its re-evaluation of the need for the project and the uncertainty of the timing and amounts of any related capital expenditures, business and regulatory impacts from ATSIs realignment into PJM Interconnection, L.L.C, economic or weather conditions affecting future sales and margins, changes in markets for energy services, changing energy and commodity market prices and availability, financial derivative reforms that could increase our liquidity needs and collateral costs, the continued ability of FirstEnergys regulated utilities to collect transition and other costs, operation and maintenance costs being higher than anticipated, other legislative and regulatory changes, and revised environmental requirements, including possible GHG emission, water intake and coal combustion residual regulations, the potential impacts of any laws, rules or regulations that ultimately replace CAIR including the Cross-State Air Pollution Rule (CSAPR) and the effects of the EPAs recently released MACT proposal to establish certain mercury and other emission standards for electric generating units, the uncertainty of the timing and amounts of the capital expenditures that may arise in connection with any NSR litigation or potential regulatory initiatives or rulemakings (including that such expenditures could result in our decision to shut down or idle certain generating units), adverse regulatory or legal decisions and outcomes with respect to our nuclear operations (including, but not limited to, the revocation or non-renewal of necessary licenses, approvals or operating permits by the NRC, including as a result of the incident at Japans Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Plant), adverse legal decisions and outcomes related to Met-Eds and Penelecs ability to recover certain transmission costs through their transmission service charge riders, the continuing availability of generating units and changes in their ability to operate at or near full capacity, replacement power costs being higher than anticipated or inadequately hedged, the ability to comply with applicable state and federal reliability standards and energy efficiency mandates, changes in customers demand for power, including but not limited to, changes resulting from the implementation of state and federal energy efficiency mandates, the ability to accomplish or realize anticipated benefits from strategic goals, efforts, and our ability, to improve electric commodity margins and the impact of, among other factors, the increased cost of coal and coal transportation on such margins, the ability to experience growth in the distribution business, the changing market conditions that could affect the value of assets held in FirstEnergys nuclear decommissioning trusts, pension trusts and other trust funds, and cause FirstEnergy to make additional contributions sooner, or in amounts that are larger than currently anticipated, the ability to access the public securities and other capital and credit markets in accordance with FirstEnergys financing plan, the cost of such capital and overall condition of the capital and credit markets affecting FirstEnergy and its subsidiaries, changes in general economic conditions affecting FirstEnergy and its subsidiaries, interest rates and any actions taken by credit rating agencies that could negatively affect FirstEnergys and its subsidiaries access to financing or their costs and increase requirements to post additional collateral to support outstanding commodity positions, LOCs and other financial guarantees, the continuing uncertainty of the national and regional economy and its impact on the major industrial and commercial customers of FirstEnergys subsidiaries, issues concerning the soundness of financial institutions and counterparties with which FirstEnergy and its subsidiaries do business, issues arising from the recently completed merger of FirstEnergy and Allegheny Energy, Inc. and the ongoing coordination of their combined operations including FirstEnergys ability to maintain relationships with customers, employees or suppliers, as well as the ability to successfully integrate the businesses and realize cost savings and any other synergies and the risk that the credit ratings of the combined company or its subsidiaries may be different from what the companies expect, the risks and other factors discussed from time to time in FirstEnergys and its applicable subsidiaries SEC filings, and other similar factors. Dividends declared from time to time on FirstEnergy's common stock during any annual period may in aggregate vary from the indicated amount due to circumstances considered by FirstEnergy's Board of Directors at the time of the actual declarations. A security rating is not a recommendation to buy, or hold securities and is subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating agency. Each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. The foregoing review of factors should not be construed as exhaustive. New factors emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for management to predict all such factors, nor assess the impact of any such factor on FirstEnergys business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. FirstEnergy expressly disclaims any current intention to update any forward-looking statements contained herein as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Forward-Looking Statements:

Exhibit 99.2
 
    
Consolidated Report
 to the Community                                                                           
Financial
 Quarter 2011
Second
 
        
  
 (Unaudited) 
(Released August 2, 2011)
 
 
 
 
 
 
* The 2011 GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliation statements can be found on page 18 of this report and all GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliation statements are available on the Investor Information section of FirstEnergy Corp.'s website at
www.firstenergycorp.com/ir
.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Commodity Margin EPS Summary
 
 
 
 
(a)  FirstEnergy Solutions Corp.s (FES) contract generation sales increased by 756,000 MWH, or 4%, and increased earnings by $0.12 per share.  FES continues to successfully execute its retail strategy by gaining new customers in recently opened markets in Pennsylvania following the expiration of Provider of Last Resort (POLR) obligations in December 2010.   FES retail sales also grew significantly in all other markets it serves, particularly in northern, central and southern Ohio.
Contract Generation Sales
 
 
(b)    FES wholesale electricity sales decreased by 713,000 MWH, or 64% and decreased earnings by $0.06 per share.
Wholesale Sales
 
(c)    Higher capacity revenues increased earnings by $0.05 per share, primarily due to FES receiving capacity revenues in June 2011 in connection with transitioning the ATSI zone from MISO to PJM.
PJM Capacity, FRR Auction
 
(d)   Net REC activity increased earnings by $0.01 per share due to increased sales of RECs partially offset by increased costs imposed by renewable obligation requirements.
REC Sales
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(e)    FES generation output for the quarter decreased by approximately 1.8 million MWH, or 10%.  The reduction in output was associated with planned and unplanned outages at the fossil plants.  Lower fuel expenses increased earnings by $0.04 per share.
Fuel Expenses
 
 
(f)    Power purchases increased by 1.7 million MWH or 70%.  Higher purchases in the spot market resulted primarily from increased contract generation sales and lower generation output from the fossil plants.   Higher purchased power costs reduced earnings by $0.07 per share.
Purchased Power
 
 
 
(g)   Higher capacity expense decreased earnings by $0.05 per share as a result of FES serving more retail load.
Capacity Expenses
 
 
 (h)  FES net MISO-PJM transmission costs decreased earnings by $0.08 per share due primarily to higher congestion, network, and transmission line loss expense in PJM.
Net MISO-PJM Transmission Expenses
 
 
 
 
(a)  Higher nuclear O&M expenses reduced earnings by $0.05 per share, primarily due to refueling outages at the Perry Plant (50 days) and Beaver Valley Unit 2 (11 days) as compared to the second quarter of 2010 when Davis-Besse was off-line to complete the modifications on the nozzles on the reactor vessel head.  The costs of the Davis-Besse extended outage were mostly capital-related.
Nuclear O&M 
 
 
(b)  Increased planned and unplanned outages at both supercritical and sub-critical fossil units reduced earnings by $0.03 per share.
Fossil O&M 
 
 
(c)  Continued cost reductions in the Energy Delivery segment increased earnings by $0.01 per share.
Energy Delivery O&M 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Merger Benefits
 
Management believes the company is on track to achieve the 2011 merger benefits target resulting from the merger with Allegheny Energy.  Through June 2011, the company has taken actions and completed savings initiatives that are expected to allow the company to capture merger benefits of approximately $132 million pre-tax on an annual basis, or 63% of the $210 million annual target.   The $132 million realized from savings initiatives completed through June, along with the impact of initiatives still underway, will be reflected in earnings throughout 2011.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2011 Earnings Guidance
 
Normalized non-GAAP* earnings guidance for 2011, excluding special items, has been revised to  $3.30 - $3.50 per basic share from our previous non-GAAP* guidance of $3.20 to $3.50 per share.  The revised guidance implies estimated earnings for the second half of 2011 of $1.94 to $2.14 per share.  Earnings for the remainder of the year, exclusive of any special items, are expected to be allocated approximately 60% to the third quarter and 40% to the fourth quarter.
 
 
* The 2011 GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliation statements can be found on page 18 of this report and all GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliation statements are available on the Investor Information section of FirstEnergy Corp.'s website at
www.firstenergycorp.com/ir
.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Developments
Recent
 
Financial Matters
Dividend
On July 19, 2011, the FirstEnergy Corp. (FirstEnergy or FE) Board of Directors declared an unchanged dividend of $0.55 per share of outstanding common stock. The dividend is payable September 1, 2011 to shareholders of record as of August 5, 2011.
 
 
Financing Activities
On April 29, 2011, Metropolitan Edison Company (Met-Ed) redeemed $13.69 million of Pollution Control Revenue Bonds (PCRBs) at par value.
On May 4, 2011, Allegheny Energy Inc. (AE Inc.) terminated its $250 million credit facility due to other available funding sources following completion of the merger with FE.
On June 1, 2011, FirstEnergy Generation Corp. (FGCO) repurchased $40 million of PCRBs and is holding these bonds for future remarketing or refinancing.
On June 17, 2011, FE and certain of its subsidiaries entered into $4.5 billion of 5-year revolving credit facilities. These facilities consist of a $2 billion 5-year revolving credit facility for FE and its regulated entities and a $2.5 billion 5-year revolving credit facility for FirstEnergy Solutions and Allegheny Energy Supply (AE Supply). As a result of the new facilities, FEs $2.75 billion facility, AE Supplys $1 billion facility, Monongahela Power Companys $150 million facility, The Potomac Edison Companys $150 million facility, and West Penn Power Companys $200 million facility, were terminated.
On July 25, 2011, AE Supply redeemed at par $15.4 million of PCRBs.
On July 29, 2011, FGCO and FirstEnergy Nuclear Generation Corp. (NGC) provided notice to the trustee for $317 million of PCRBs and of termination of supporting letters of credit. As a result, the PCRBs will be subject to mandatory purchase on September 1, 2011. Subject to market conditions and other considerations, FGCO and NGC currently expect to hold these bonds for future remarketing or refinancing.
Regulatory Matters
Marginal Transmission Loss Recovery
On March 3, 2010, the Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission (PPUC) issued an order denying Met-Eds and Pennsylvania Electric Companys (Penelec) ability to recover marginal transmission losses through the transmission service charge riders in their respective tariffs which applies to the periods including June 1, 2008 through December 31, 2010. Subsequently, Met-Ed and Penelec (Companies) filed a Petition for Review with the Commonwealth Court of Pennsylvania (Commonwealth Court) appealing the PPUCs order. On June 14, 2011, the Commonwealth Court affirmed the PPUCs decision that marginal transmission losses are not recoverable as transmission costs. On July 13, 2011, the Companies filed a federal complaint with the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, and on the following day filed a Petition for Allowance of Appeal to the Pennsylvania Supreme Court. The Companies believe the Commonwealth Courts decision contradicts federal law and is inconsistent with prior PPUC and court decisions and therefore expect to fully recover the related regulatory assets ($189 million for Met-Ed and $65 million for Penelec). In January 2011 and continuing for 29 months, pursuant to a related PPUC order, the Companies began crediting customers for the amounts at issue pending outcome of the court appeals. The effect of the credits is included in FEs estimated cash from operating activities.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Litigation
On July 11, 2011, FE was found to be a potentially responsible party under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (CERCLA), indirectly liable for a portion of past and future clean-up costs of certain manufactured gas plant sites in New York. As a result, FE recognized an additional expense of $29 million during the second quarter of 2011; $30 million had previously been reserved prior to 2011.
Operational Matters
New Nuclear Emergency Operations Facilities
In June 2011, FirstEnergy Nuclear Operating Company (FENOC) broke ground for new Emergency Operations Facilities for the Beaver Valley Power Station and Perry Nuclear Power Plant (Perry Plant). Each of the 12,000 square-foot facilities will house activities related to maintaining public health and safety during the unlikely event of an emergency at the plant and allow for improved coordination between the plant, state and local emergency management agencies. FENOC is expected to break ground for a similar facility for the Davis-Besse Nuclear Power Station in August 2011.
Perry Plant Returns to Service after Refueling
On June 7, 2011, the Perry Plant (1,268 MW) returned to service following a scheduled shutdown for refueling and maintenance which began on April 18, 2011. During the outage, 248 of the 748 fuel assemblies were replaced and safety inspections were successfully conducted. Additionally, numerous preventative maintenance activities and improvement projects were completed that we believe will result in continued safe and reliable operations, including replacement of several control rod blades, rewind of the generator, and routine work on more than 150 valves, pumps and motors.
American Transmission Systems, Incorporated (ATSI) Integrated into PJM Interconnection (PJM)
On June 1, 2011, ATSI successfully integrated into PJM. With this transition, all of FEs generation, transmission and distribution facilities are now in PJM.
 
Fremont Energy Center
On July 28, 2011, FE closed on the previously announced sale of Fremont Energy Center to American Municipal Power, Inc. for $510 million based on 685 MW of output. The purchase price can be incrementally increased, not to exceed an additional $16 million, to reflect additional transmission export capacity up to 707 MW. The proceeds are expected to be used to reduce FEs net debt position.
 
TrAIL Update
On May 19, 2011, TrAILCos new 500-kilovolt transmission line, spanning more than 150 miles from southwestern Pennsylvania through West Virginia to northern Virginia, was completed and fully energized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Forward-Looking Statements:
This Consolidated Report to the Financial Community includes forward-looking statements based on information currently available to management. Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. These statements include declarations regarding managements intents, beliefs and current expectations. These statements typically contain, but are not limited to, the terms anticipate, potential, expect, believe, estimate and similar words. Forward-looking statements involve estimates, assumptions, known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Actual results may differ materially due to: the speed and nature of increased competition in the electric utility industry. the impact of the regulatory process on the pending matters in the various states in which we do business including, but not limited to, matters related to rates, the status of the PATH project in light of PJM's direction to suspend work on the project pending review of its planning process, its re-evaluation of the need for the project and the uncertainty of the timing and amounts of any related capital expenditures, business and regulatory impacts from ATSIs realignment into PJM Interconnection, L.L.C, economic or weather conditions affecting future sales and margins, changes in markets for energy services, changing energy and commodity market prices and availability, financial derivative reforms that could increase our liquidity needs and collateral costs, the continued ability of FirstEnergys regulated utilities to collect transition and other costs, operation and maintenance costs being higher than anticipated, other legislative and regulatory changes, and revised environmental requirements, including possible GHG emission, water intake and coal combustion residual regulations, the potential impacts of any laws, rules or regulations that ultimately replace CAIR including the Cross-State Air Pollution Rule (CSAPR) and the effects of the EPAs recently released MACT proposal to establish certain mercury and other emission standards for electric generating units, the uncertainty of the timing and amounts of the capital expenditures that may arise in connection with any NSR litigation or potential regulatory initiatives or rulemakings (including that such expenditures could result in our decision to shut down or idle certain generating units), adverse regulatory or legal decisions and outcomes with respect to our nuclear operations (including, but not limited to, the revocation or non-renewal of necessary licenses, approvals or operating permits by the NRC, including as a result of the incident at Japans Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Plant), adverse legal decisions and outcomes related to Met-Eds and Penelecs ability to recover certain transmission costs through their transmission service charge riders, the continuing availability of generating units and changes in their ability to operate at or near full capacity, replacement power costs being higher than anticipated or inadequately hedged, the ability to comply with applicable state and federal reliability standards and energy efficiency mandates, changes in customers demand for power, including but not limited to, changes resulting from the implementation of state and federal energy efficiency mandates, the ability to accomplish or realize anticipated benefits from strategic goals, efforts, and our ability, to improve electric commodity margins and the impact of, among other factors, the increased cost of coal and coal transportation on such margins, the ability to experience growth in the distribution business, the changing market conditions that could affect the value of assets held in FirstEnergys nuclear decommissioning trusts, pension trusts and other trust funds, and cause FirstEnergy to make additional contributions sooner, or in amounts that are larger than currently anticipated, the ability to access the public securities and other capital and credit markets in accordance with FirstEnergys financing plan, the cost of such capital and overall condition of the capital and credit markets affecting FirstEnergy and its subsidiaries, changes in general economic conditions affecting FirstEnergy and its subsidiaries, interest rates and any actions taken by credit rating agencies that could negatively affect FirstEnergys and its subsidiaries access to financing or their costs and increase requirements to post additional collateral to support outstanding commodity positions, LOCs and other financial guarantees, the continuing uncertainty of the national and regional economy and its impact on the major industrial and commercial customers of FirstEnergys subsidiaries, issues concerning the soundness of financial institutions and counterparties with which FirstEnergy and its subsidiaries do business, issues arising from the recently completed merger of FirstEnergy and Allegheny Energy, Inc. and the ongoing coordination of their combined operations including FirstEnergys ability to maintain relationships with customers, employees or suppliers, as well as the ability to successfully integrate the businesses and realize cost savings and any other synergies and the risk that the credit ratings of the combined company or its subsidiaries may be different from what the companies expect, the risks and other factors discussed from time to time in FirstEnergys and its applicable subsidiaries SEC filings, and other similar factors. Dividends declared from time to time on FirstEnergy's common stock during any annual period may in aggregate vary from the indicated amount due to circumstances considered by FirstEnergy's Board of Directors at the time of the actual declarations. A security rating is not a recommendation to buy, or hold securities and is subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating agency. Each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. The foregoing review of factors should not be construed as exhaustive. New factors emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for management to predict all such factors, nor assess the impact of any such factor on FirstEnergys business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. FirstEnergy expressly disclaims any current intention to update any forward-looking statements contained herein as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


