FILE:FE/FE-8K-20110518171649.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
TEXT:
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2.):
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.07 Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
FirstEnergy Corp. held its Annual Meeting of Shareholders on May 17, 2011 in Akron, Ohio.  The matters voted upon and the final results of the vote were as follows:
 Ratify the appointment of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as the Companys independent registered public accounting firm, for the 2011 fiscal year.  There were no broker non-votes for this item.  Item 2 received the following vote:
Item 2
 
 Amendment to the Amended Code of Regulations to reduce the percentage of shares required to call a special meeting of shareholders.  The proposal received the following vote:
Item 3
 
 Advisory vote on executive compensation.  The proposal received the following vote:
Item 4
 
 Advisory vote on frequency of the advisory vote on executive compensation.  The proposal received the following vote:
Item 5
 
In light of the Board of Directors recommendation for a one year vote frequency for the advisory vote on executive compensation, which received a majority of votes cast by our shareholders, the Board of Directors has determined that future advisory votes on executive compensation will be submitted to shareholders annually until the next required shareholder vote on this matter.
 
 
 
2
 
- A shareholder proposal requesting that the Board of Directors prepare a report on coal combustion waste.  The proposal received the following vote:
Item 6
 
- A shareholder proposal requesting that the Board of Directors undertake the steps necessary to lower the percentage of shares required for shareholders to take action by written consent.  The proposal received the following vote:
Item 7
 
- A shareholder proposal requesting that the Board of Directors initiate the process to amend the Companys articles of incorporation to adopt a majority vote standard for the election of directors.  The proposal received the following vote:
Item 8
 
- A shareholder proposal requesting that the Board of Directors issue a report on the financial risks of continued reliance on coal.  The proposal received the following vote:
Item 9
 
 
Reference is made to FirstEnergys 2011 Proxy Statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 1, 2011, for more information regarding the proposals set forth above and the vote required for approval of these matters.
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto authorized.
May 18, 2011
 
 
 
 
 
3
 


