FILE:FE/FE-8K-20111221151956.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2.):
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02  Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
(d) On December 20, 2011, FirstEnergy Corp. (Company) announced that Donald T. Misheff has been elected to the Board of Directors (Board) effective January 1, 2012, and he will serve for a term expiring at the annual meeting of shareholders in 2012 or until his successor is elected.  Mr. Misheff is currently a Managing Partner of Ernst & Young.  He will retire from Ernst & Young effective December 31, 2011. The Board has affirmatively determined that, at January 1, 2012, Mr. Misheff is an independent director under the regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and the listing standards of the New York Stock Exchange.
Mr. Misheff will serve on the Board's Corporate Governance and Nuclear Committees and will be compensated for his Board service in the same manner as the other Board members. The Boards compensation program was amended effective January 1, 2012, to increase the annual cash and equity retainers paid and, in most instances, eliminate the current regular board and committee meeting fees. There are no arrangements or understandings between Mr. Misheff and any other person pursuant to which Mr. Misheff was selected as a director.  There are no relationships between Mr. Misheff and FirstEnergy or any of its subsidiaries that would require disclosure pursuant to Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K.
The Company will enter into an Indemnification Agreement with Mr. Misheff. The form of Indemnification Agreement to be entered into by Mr. Misheff was previously filed with the SEC as Exhibit 10.1 to FirstEnergys Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2009, and is incorporated herein by reference.
A copy of the news release issued by the Company announcing the election of Mr. Misheff is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
December 21, 2011
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
Akron, Ohio  FirstEnergy Corp. (NYSE: FE) today announced that Donald T. Misheff has been elected to the companys Board of Directors, effective January 1, 2012.
As Northeast Ohio Managing Partner at Ernst & Young, Misheff advised some of the regions largest companies on financial and corporate governance issues.  He began his career with Ernst & Young in 1978 as part of the audit staff and later joined the tax practice, specializing in accounting/financial reporting for income taxes, purchase accounting and mergers and acquisitions.  Misheff will retire from Ernst & Young effective December 31, 2011.
Dons vast financial and corporate governance experience, together with his extensive service to community organizations and business development groups in our region, make him a strong addition to our Board, said George Smart, chairman of FirstEnergys Board of Directors.
Misheff is chairman of the Board of Firestone Country Club; chairman of Cuyahoga Community College (Tri-C) Foundation, member of the Akron Tomorrow Board, and trustee of Ashland University.  He previously served as a member of the Cleveland United Way executive committee and on numerous boards including the University of Akron Foundation and BioEnterprise.  He is also past chairman of the Greater Akron Chamber, and past treasurer and chair of the finance committee for Team NEO.
 
 
 
 
 
Misheff holds a bachelor of science degree in accounting from the University of Akron.  He is a Certified Public Accountant, and a member of the Ohio Society of CPAs and the American Institute of CPAs.
He has been recognized with the University of Akron Distinguished Alumni Frank Simonetti Award; the Greater Akron Chamber H. Peter Burg Award for Regional Economic Development; the University of Akron Accounting Program Distinguished Alumni Award; and the National Multiple Sclerosis Societys Norman Cohn Hope Award.  He was also recognized by magazine as one of the 100 Most Influential People in Northeast Ohio.
Inside Business
The election of Misheff brings the size of FirstEnergys Board to 15 members.
FirstEnergy is a diversified energy company dedicated to safety, reliability and operational excellence.  Its ten electric distribution companies comprise the nations largest investor-owned electric system.  Its diverse generating fleet features non-emitting nuclear, scrubbed base load coal, natural gas, and pumped-storage hydro and other renewables, and has a total generating capacity of nearly 23,000 megawatts.
 
 
 
2
 


