FILE:FE/FE-8K-20110502163511.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2.):
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On May 2, 2011, FirstEnergy Corp. issued two public documents, which are attached as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 hereto and incorporated by reference. FirstEnergy's Press Release and Consolidated Report to the Financial Community contain non-GAAP* financial measures. Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, FirstEnergy has provided quantitative reconciliations within the Press Release and Consolidated Report to the Financial Community of the non-GAAP* financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
The Press Release and Consolidated Report to the Financial Community contain references to Non-GAAP financial measures including, among others, normalized earnings per share, which are not calculated in accordance with GAAP because they exclude the impact of "special items." Special items reflect the impact on earnings of events that are not routine or that may be related to discontinued businesses. Management believes presenting normalized earnings calculated in this manner provides useful information to investors in evaluating the ongoing results of FirstEnergy's businesses and assists investors in comparing FirstEnergys operating performance to the operating performance of other companies in the energy sector. Management believes presenting these non-GAAP* measures provides useful information to investors in assessing FirstEnergy's normalized operating performance. FirstEnergy's management frequently references these non-GAAP* financial measures in its decision-making, using them to facilitate historical and ongoing performance comparisons as well as comparisons to the performance of peer companies.
The non-GAAP* information presented in the Press Release and Consolidated Report to the Financial Community should be considered in addition to, and not as a substitute for, the most directly comparable financial measure prepared in accordance with GAAP. Also, the non-GAAP* financial measure may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other entities.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
*This Form 8-K contains non-GAAP financial measures. Generally, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a company's historical or future financial performance, financial position, or cash flows that either excludes or includes amounts, or is subject to adjustment that has the effect of excluding or including amounts, that are not normally excluded or included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, or GAAP.
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
This Form 8-K includes forward-looking statements based on information currently available to management. Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. These statements include declarations regarding managements intents, beliefs and current expectations. These statements typically contain, but are not limited to, the terms anticipate, potential, expect, believe, estimate and similar words. Forward-looking statements involve estimates, assumptions, known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Actual results may differ materially due to: the speed and nature of increased competition in the electric utility industry. the impact of the regulatory process on the pending matters in the various states in which we do business including, but not limited to, matters related to rates, the status of the PATH project in light of PJM's direction to suspend work on the project pending review of its planning process, its re-evaluation of the need for the project and the uncertainty of the timing and amounts of any related capital expenditures, business and regulatory impacts from ATSIs realignment into PJM Interconnection, L.L.C, economic or weather conditions affecting future sales and margins, changes in markets for energy services, changing energy and commodity market prices and availability, financial derivative reforms that could increase our liquidity needs and collateral costs, replacement power costs being higher than anticipated or inadequately hedged, the continued ability of FirstEnergys regulated utilities to collect transition and other costs, operation and maintenance costs being higher than anticipated, other legislative and regulatory changes, and revised environmental requirements, including possible GHG emission, water intake and coal combustion residual regulations, the potential impacts of any laws, rules or regulations that ultimately replace CAIR and the effects of the EPAs recently released MACT proposal to establish certain mercury and other emission standards for electric generating units, the uncertainty of the timing and amounts of the capital expenditures that may arise in connection with any NSR litigation or potential regulatory initiatives or rulemakings (including that such expenditures could result in our decision to shut down or idle certain generating units), adverse regulatory or legal decisions and outcomes (including, but not limited to, the revocation of necessary licenses or operating permits) and oversight by the NRC, including as a result of the incident at Japans Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Plant, adverse legal decisions and outcomes related to Met-Eds and Penelecs transmission service charge appeal at the Commonwealth Court of Pennsylvania, the continuing availability of generating units and changes in their ability to operate at or near full capacity, the ability to comply with applicable state and federal reliability standards and energy efficiency mandates, changes in customers demand for power, including but not limited to, changes resulting from the implementation of state and federal energy efficiency mandates, the ability to accomplish or realize anticipated benefits from strategic goals, efforts, and our ability, to improve electric commodity margins and the impact of, among other factors, the increased cost of coal and coal transportation on such margins, the ability to experience growth in the distribution business, the changing market conditions that could affect the value of assets held in FirstEnergys nuclear decommissioning trusts, pension trusts and other trust funds, and cause FirstEnergy to make additional contributions sooner, or in amounts that are larger than currently anticipated, the ability to access the public securities and other capital and credit markets in accordance with FirstEnergys financing plan, the cost of such capital and overall condition of the capital and credit markets affecting FirstEnergy and its subsidiaries, changes in general economic conditions affecting FirstEnergy and its subsidiaries, interest rates and any actions taken by credit rating agencies that could negatively affect FirstEnergys and its subsidiaries access to financing or their costs and increase requirements to post additional collateral to support outstanding commodity positions, letters of credit and other financial guarantees, the continuing uncertainty of the national and regional economy and its impact on the major industrial and commercial customers of FirstEnergys subsidiaries, issues concerning the soundness of financial institutions and counterparties with which FirstEnergy and its subsidiaries do business, issues arising from the recently completed merger of FirstEnergy and Allegheny Energy, Inc. and the ongoing coordination of their combined operations including FirstEnergys ability to maintain relationships with customers, employees or suppliers, as well as the ability to successfully integrate the businesses and realize cost savings and any other synergies and the risk that the credit ratings of the combined company or its subsidiaries may be different from what the companies expect, the risks and other factors discussed from time to time in FirstEnergys and its applicable subsidiaries SEC filings, and other similar factors. Dividends declared from time to time on FirstEnergy's common stock during any annual period may in aggregate vary from the indicated amount due to circumstances considered by FirstEnergy's Board of Directors at the time of the actual declarations. The foregoing review of factors should not be construed as exhaustive. New factors emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for management to predict all such factors, nor assess the impact of any such factor on FirstEnergys business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. The Registrant expressly disclaims any current intention to update any forward-looking statements contained herein as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Forward-Looking Statements:  
 
 
 
3
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
May 2, 2011
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4
 
 

 
 
 
Akron, Ohio  FirstEnergy Corp. (NYSE: FE) today announced earnings for the first quarter of 2011, and provided non-GAAP* earnings guidance of $3.20 to $3.50 per share of common stock for each year from 2011 through 2013.  During each of these years, the company also expects to generate cash from operations in excess of its planned capital spending and common stock dividend payments.
For the first quarter of 2011, basic and diluted earnings were $0.69 per share of common stock on a non-GAAP basis.  These results exclude the impact of special items, primarily related to the recently completed merger with Allegheny Energy, listed below.  This compares to basic and diluted non-GAAP earnings of $0.81 per share in the first quarter of 2010.  On a GAAP basis, first quarter 2011 basic and diluted earnings were $0.15 per share of common stock on net income of $45 million and revenue of $3.6 billion.  First quarter 2010 basic and diluted GAAP earnings were $0.51 per share on net income of $149 million, with revenue of $3.3 billion.
With the February closing of our merger with Allegheny Energy behind us, we are already making significant progress in realizing its benefits, and we now expect the merger to be accretive to earnings in 2011, said FirstEnergy President and Chief Executive Officer Anthony J. Alexander.  Our first quarter results are in line with our expectations for the year.
We are also pleased to introduce non-GAAP earnings guidance for 2011 through 2013, which reflect anticipated benefits from the merger, the successful execution of our competitive retail strategy, and steady improvement in distribution deliveries as the economy improves, Alexander said.
 
 
 
 
 
Alexander also noted that FirstEnergy will focus on several financial initiatives in the 2011-2013 period, including capturing cash benefits of $1.3 billion from the merger on a pre-tax basis, strengthening the balance sheet, and continuing to apply aggressive financial discipline to spending decisions.  
First quarter 2011 non-GAAP results benefited from the one-month earnings contribution from the Allegheny Energy companies, and higher distribution deliveries.  Results were negatively affected by shares issued in the merger, higher operation and maintenance expenses, reduced capitalized interest, increased general taxes, and lower commodity margin from FirstEnergy Solutions.
Distribution deliveries, excluding Allegheny Energy deliveries, increased 2 percent in the quarter due to the improving economy and colder weather compared to the same period of 2010.  Usage by industrial customers increased 6 percent, primarily driven by higher usage in the steel industry.  Residential sales increased 2 percent, and commercial deliveries decreased slightly.
Commodity margin for FirstEnergy Solutions decreased compared to the first quarter of 2010, as higher competitive generation sales were offset by increases in transmission expense and lower sales of Renewable Energy Credits.
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
FirstEnergys Consolidated Report to the Financial Community  which provides highlights on company developments and financial results for the first quarter of 2011  is posted on the companys Investor Information website  . To access the report, click on
www.firstenergycorp.com/ir
First Quarter 2011 Consolidated Report to the Financial Community
              An in-depth briefing on the companys strategies, operations and financial outlook will be presented at FirstEnergys Analyst Meeting in New York City tomorrow at approximately
8:15 a.m. EDT.  Materials related to the meeting will be posted on the Investor Information website this evening.  A live Internet webcast of the presentation and follow-up question-and-answer session will be available on the site.  The webcast will be archived on the website.
FirstEnergy is a diversified energy company dedicated to safety, reliability and operational excellence.  Its ten electric distribution companies comprise the nations largest investor-owned electric system.  Its diverse generating fleet features non-emitting nuclear, scrubbed baseload coal, natural gas, and pumped-storage hydro and other renewables, and has a total generating capacity of approximately 23,000 megawatts.
(*)  This news release contains non-GAAP financial measures.  Generally, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a company's historical or future financial performance, financial position, or cash flows that either excludes or includes amounts that are not normally excluded or included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP).   These non-GAAP financial measures are intended to complement, and not considered as an alternative to, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure.  Also, the non-GAAP financial measures may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other entities.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3
 
 
This news release includes forward-looking statements based on information currently available to management. Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. These statements include declarations regarding managements intents, beliefs and current expectations. These statements typically contain, but are not limited to, the terms anticipate, potential, expect, believe, estimate and similar words. Forward-looking statements involve estimates, assumptions, known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Actual results may differ materially due to the speed and nature of increased competition in the electric utility industry, the impact of the regulatory process on the pending matters in the various states in which we do business including, but not limited to, matters related to rates, the status of the Potomac-Appalachian Transmission Highline (PATH) project in light of PJM Interconnection, LLCs efforts to determine whether the need for PATH should be re-evaluated and the related suspension of work on the project, PATHs rate of recovery at FERC, business and regulatory impacts from American Transmission Systems, Incorporateds realignment into PJM Interconnection, LLC, economic or weather conditions affecting future sales and margins, changes in markets for energy services, changing energy and commodity market prices and availability, financial derivative reforms that could increase our liquidity needs and collateral costs, replacement power costs being higher than anticipated or inadequately hedged, the continued ability of FirstEnergys regulated utilities to collect transition and other costs, operation and maintenance costs being higher than anticipated, other legislative and regulatory changes, and revised environmental requirements, including possible greenhouse gas emission and coal combustion residual regulations, the potential impacts of any laws, rules or regulations that ultimately replace the Clean Air Interstate Rules, the uncertainty of the timing and amounts of the capital expenditures needed to complete, among other things,  the PATH project as a result of its current suspension status, the uncertainty of the timing and amounts of the capital expenditures needed to resolve any New Source Review litigation or other potential similar regulatory initiatives or rulemakings (including that such expenditures could result in our decision to shut down or idle certain generating units), adverse regulatory or legal decisions and outcomes (including, but not limited to, the revocation of necessary licenses or operating permits and oversight by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission), adverse legal decisions and outcomes related to Metropolitan Edison Companys and Pennsylvania Electric Companys transmission service charge appeal at the Commonwealth Court of Pennsylvania, the continuing availability of generating units and their ability to operate at or near full capacity, the ability to comply with applicable state and federal reliability standards and energy efficiency mandates, changes in customers demand for power, including but not limited to, changes resulting from the implementation of state and federal energy efficiency mandates, the ability to accomplish or realize anticipated benefits from strategic goals (including employee workforce initiatives), the ability to improve electric commodity margins and the impact of, among other factors, the increased cost of coal and coal transportation on such margins and the ability to experience growth in the distribution business, the changing market conditions that could affect the value of assets held in FirstEnergys nuclear decommissioning trusts, pension trusts and other trust funds, and cause FirstEnergy to make additional contributions sooner, or in amounts that are larger than currently anticipated, the ability to access the public securities and other capital and credit markets in accordance with FirstEnergys financing plan and the cost of such capital, changes in general economic conditions affecting the company, the state of the capital and credit markets affecting the company, interest rates and any actions taken by credit rating agencies that could negatively affect FirstEnergys access to financing or its costs and increase its requirements to post additional collateral to support outstanding commodity positions, letters of credit and other financial guarantees, the continuing uncertainty of the national and regional economy and its impact on the companys major industrial and commercial customers, issues concerning the soundness of financial institutions and counterparties with which FirstEnergy does business, issues arising from the recently completed merger of FirstEnergy and Allegheny Energy, Inc. and the ongoing coordination of their combined operations, including FirstEnergys ability to maintain relationships with customers, employees or suppliers as well as the ability to successfully integrate the businesses and realize cost savings and any other synergies and the risk that the credit ratings of the combined company or its subsidiaries may be different from what the companies expect and the risks and other factors discussed from time to time in FirstEnergys Securities and Exchange Commission filings, and other similar factors. The foregoing review of factors should not be construed as exhaustive. New factors emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for management to predict all such factors, nor assess the impact of any such factor on FirstEnergys business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. FirstEnergy expressly disclaims any current intention to update any forward-looking statements contained herein as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
Forward-Looking Statements:
 
4
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
Report
   Consolidated
 to the Financial Community                                                                           
First Quarter 2011
 
        
 (Unaudited)   
(Released May 2, 2011)
 
 
 
 
* The 2011 GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliation statements can be found on page 13 of this report and all GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliation statements are available on the Investor Information section of FirstEnergy Corp.'s website at
www.firstenergycorp.com/ir
.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Commodity Margin EPS Summary
 
 
 
 
(a)  FirstEnergy Solutions Corp.s (FES) generation sales increased by 536,000 MWH, or 3%, and increased earnings by $0.25 per share.  FES continues to successfully execute its retail strategy by gaining customers in Ohio through direct and governmental aggregation sales channels.  FES retail sales also grew significantly in all other markets it serves, with expansion into multiple new territories, including Pennsylvania as well as central and southern Ohio, and continued growth in existing territories.
Generation Sales
 
 
(b)    FES wholesale electricity sales increased by 215,000 MWH, or 24%.  However, wholesale sales margins decreased earnings by $0.03 per share, as lower average prices more than offset higher sales volumes.
Wholesale Sales
 
 
(c)    Higher capacity revenues increased earnings by $0.02 per share primarily due to higher clearing prices for our Beaver Valley generating units.
PJM RPM Capacity Auction
 
 
(d)   Lower revenues derived from the sale of RECs decreased earnings by $0.06 per share due primarily to a decreased volume of RECs sold.
REC Sales
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(e)    FES generation output for the quarter increased by approximately 1.0 million MWH, or 6%, due to increased production from the fossil fleet. Higher fuel expenses reduced earnings by $0.01 per share, primarily due to higher coal transportation costs associated with increased usage of western coal.
Fuel Expenses
 
 
    
 
(f)    Power purchases increased by 390,000 MWH or 13%, which is primarily attributable to increased spot market purchases in PJM due to the Beaver Valley refueling outage in the first quarter of 2011.  Lower purchased power costs increased earnings by $0.01 per share as lower average prices more than offset increased volumes purchased.
Purchased Power
 
 
               
  
 
(g)   Higher FES capacity expense decreased earnings by $0.02 per share, as a result of FES serving more load in market areas with higher clearing prices.
Capacity Expenses
 
 
(h)  FES net MISO-PJM transmission costs  decreased earnings by $0.18 per share due primarily to higher congestion, network, and transmission line loss expense in PJM.
Net MISO-PJM Transmission Expenses
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
             
 
 
2011 Earnings Guidance
 
Normalized non-GAAP* earnings guidance for 2011, excluding special items, is $3.20 - $3.50 per basic share of common stock -- $2.88 - $3.18 per share measured on a GAAP basis.
 
 
 
* The 2011 GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliation statements can be found on page 13 of this report and all GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliation statements are available on the Investor Information section of FirstEnergy Corp.'s website at
www.firstenergycorp.com/ir
.
 
 
 
 
 
 
           
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Recent
 
Developments
Merger Completion
On February 25, 2011, the FirstEnergy Corp. (FirstEnergy or FE) and Allegheny Energy Inc. (Allegheny Energy) merger closed.
Financial Matters
Dividend
With the completion of the merger, the dividend synchronization plan announced in December 2010 became effective.  FE shareholders of record as of February 7, 2011, received a pro rata dividend of $0.5255 per share, payable March 1, 2011. FE shareholders of record as of February 25, 2011, received a pro rata dividend of $0.0245 per share, payable March 7, 2011. Allegheny Energy shareholders of record as of February 24, 2011 received a pro rated final dividend of $0.12045 per share, payable March 11, 2011.
On February 15, 2011, the FE Board of Directors declared an unchanged dividend of $0.55 per share of outstanding common stock.  The dividend is payable June 1, 2011 to shareholders of record as of May 6, 2011.
 
Financing Activities
On March 16, 2011, Pennsylvania Electric Company (Penelec) and Metropolitan Edison Company (Met-Ed) extended for three years a Letter of Credit (LOC) supporting two series of Pollution Control Revenue Bonds (PCRBs) totaling $49 million.
On March 17 and April 1, 2011, FES and Penelec completed the remarketing of six series of PCRBs totaling $328 million. Each of these series either remained in, or were converted to, a variable rate mode supported with a three year LOC.
On March 29, 2011, FES paid off a $100 million two year secured term loan facility that was set to mature on March 31, 2011. On April 8, 2011, FE entered into a $150 million unsecured term loan facility with an April 2013 maturity.
During March 2011, the utility accounts receivable financing arrangements for Ohio Edison Company (Ohio Edison), The Toledo Edison Company (Toledo Edison), Penelec and Met-Ed were terminated.  FE determined that it was more economical to use other sources of liquidity.
Pension Contribution
In March and April 2011, FE voluntarily contributed an aggregate $250 million to its pension plan.  In addition, $11.2 million was contributed to Allegheny Energys pension plan during the first quarter of 2011.
Regulatory Matters
Ohio Energy Efficiency (EE) and Peak Demand Reduction (DR) Portfolio Plan
On March 23, 2011, the Public Utilities Commission of Ohio approved the three-year EE and DR portfolio plan for Ohio Edison, Cleveland Electric Illuminating Company and Toledo Edison (Ohio Utilities).  The Ohio Utilities plan was developed to comply with the EE mandate in Ohios Senate Bill 221, passed in 2008.  This law requires that all Ohio utilities reduce energy usage by 22.2% by 2025 and peak demand 7.75% by 2018, develop a portfolio plan, and meet annual benchmarks to measure progress.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Met-Ed, Penelec and Penn Power Generation Procurement
On March 21, 2011, auctions were conducted to procure a portion of the default service requirements for Met-Ed, Penelec and Pennsylvania Power Company (Penn Power) customers who choose not to shop with an alternative supplier.  The March 2011 auction was the final of four auctions for Met-Ed and Penelec and the final of two auctions for Penn Power to procure commercial default service requirements for the 12-month period of June 1, 2011 to May 31, 2012 and residential requirements for the 24-month period of June 1, 2011 to May 31, 2013.   For Met-Ed, Penelec and Penn Power commercial customers the tranche-weighted average price ($/MWH) was $67.34, $59.55 and $56.03, respectively, and for residential customers the tranche-weighted average price was $70.09, $60.27 and $56.49, respectively.  This was also the final of two auctions held to procure residential service requirements for the 12-month period of June 1, 2011 to May 31, 2012.  For Met-Ed, Penelec and Penn Power residential customers the tranche-weighted average price ($/MWH) was $67.35, $57.88 and $55.85, respectively.
Penn Power Solar Renewable Energy Credits (SREC)
On March 11, 2011, the Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission approved the results of the Penn Power procurement of SRECs to meet Pennsylvanias Alternative Energy Portfolio Standards through 2020.  Penn Power contracted for 19,800 SRECs. One SREC represents the solar renewable energy attributes of one MWH of generation from a solar generating facility.  This purchase of SRECs is equivalent to approximately 2,200 MWH of solar power generation annually over the next nine years.  The average cost is $199.09 per SREC, with deliveries scheduled to begin in June 2011 and continuing through May 2020.
Operational Matters
Perry Plant Begins Refueling
On April 18, 2011, FirstEnergy Nuclear Operating Company (FENOC) announced that Perry Nuclear Power Plant (1,268 MW) shutdown for a scheduled refueling and maintenance outage. During the outage, 284 of the 748 fuel assemblies will be replaced, numerous safety inspections will be conducted, and many maintenance projects will be completed.  On April 25, 2011, the Nuclear Regulatory Commission began a Special Inspection to review the circumstances surrounding work activities to remove a source range monitor from the reactor core on April 22, 2011.
Beaver Valley Refueling
On April 11, 2011, FENOC announced that Beaver Valley Unit 2 (911 MW) returned to service following a scheduled March 7, 2011 shutdown for refueling and maintenance.  During the outage 60 of the 157 fuel assemblies were exchanged, safety inspections were conducted, and many maintenance and improvement projects were completed.
Signal Peak
On March 16, 2011, Signal Peak Energy received a letter from the Mine Safety and Health Administration that its mine is no longer being considered for the pattern of potential violations notice.
Fremont Energy Center
On March 11, 2011, FE entered into a definitive agreement to sell Fremont Energy Center (707 MW) to American Municipal Power, Inc. (AMP).  Under the terms of the agreement, AMP will purchase the Fremont Energy Center for approximately $485 million, based on 685 MW of output.  The purchase price could be incrementally increased, not to exceed an additional $16 million, if additional output and transmission export capacity permit an increase to the facilitiys nameplate capacity of 707 MW.  In addition, AMP will reimburse FE up to $25.3 million for construction costs to be incurred from February 1, 2011 through the closing date.  The transaction is expected to close on or about July 1, 2011.
Trans-Allegheny Interstate Line (TrAIL)
On April 15, 2011, the Meadow Brook to Loudoun 500 kV segment of the TrAIL transmission line was energized.  The scheduled in-service date for the entire TrAIL line is June 1, 2011.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Suspension of Potomac-Appalachian Transmission Highline (PATH)
On February 28, 2011, FE announced that it filed to withdraw its applications for state regulatory approval of the PATH project after an announcement by regional grid operator PJM Interconnection LLC (PJM) that the project was suspended.  The Maryland Public Service Commission deemed the notice effective upon filing and the West Virginia Public Service Commission has granted the motion to withdraw. The Virginia State Corporation Commission has not ruled on the motion to withdraw.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This Consolidated Report to the Financial Community includes forward-looking statements based on information currently available to management. Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. These statements include declarations regarding managements intents, beliefs and current expectations. These statements typically contain, but are not limited to, the terms anticipate, potential, expect, believe, estimate and similar words. Forward-looking statements involve estimates, assumptions, known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Actual results may differ materially due to: the speed and nature of increased competition in the electric utility industry. the impact of the regulatory process on the pending matters in the various states in which we do business including, but not limited to, matters related to rates, the status of the PATH project in light of PJM's direction to suspend work on the project pending review of its planning process, its re-evaluation of the need for the project and the uncertainty of the timing and amounts of any related capital expenditures, business and regulatory impacts from ATSIs realignment into PJM Interconnection, L.L.C, economic or weather conditions affecting future sales and margins, changes in markets for energy services, changing energy and commodity market prices and availability, financial derivative reforms that could increase our liquidity needs and collateral costs, replacement power costs being higher than anticipated or inadequately hedged, the continued ability of FirstEnergys regulated utilities to collect transition and other costs, operation and maintenance costs being higher than anticipated, other legislative and regulatory changes, and revised environmental requirements, including possible GHG emission, water intake and coal combustion residual regulations, the potential impacts of any laws, rules or regulations that ultimately replace CAIR and the effects of the EPAs recently released MACT proposal to establish certain mercury and other emission standards for electric generating units, the uncertainty of the timing and amounts of the capital expenditures that may arise in connection with any NSR litigation or potential regulatory initiatives or rulemakings (including that such expenditures could result in our decision to shut down or idle certain generating units), adverse regulatory or legal decisions and outcomes (including, but not limited to, the revocation of necessary licenses or operating permits) and oversight by the NRC, including as a result of the incident at Japans Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Plant, adverse legal decisions and outcomes related to Met-Eds and Penelecs transmission service charge appeal at the Commonwealth Court of Pennsylvania, the continuing availability of generating units and changes in their ability to operate at or near full capacity, the ability to comply with applicable state and federal reliability standards and energy efficiency mandates, changes in customers demand for power, including but not limited to, changes resulting from the implementation of state and federal energy efficiency mandates, the ability to accomplish or realize anticipated benefits from strategic goals, efforts, and our ability, to improve electric commodity margins and the impact of, among other factors, the increased cost of coal and coal transportation on such margins, the ability to experience growth in the distribution business, the changing market conditions that could affect the value of assets held in FirstEnergys nuclear decommissioning trusts, pension trusts and other trust funds, and cause FirstEnergy to make additional contributions sooner, or in amounts that are larger than currently anticipated, the ability to access the public securities and other capital and credit markets in accordance with FirstEnergys financing plan, the cost of such capital and overall condition of the capital and credit markets affecting FirstEnergy and its subsidiaries, changes in general economic conditions affecting FirstEnergy and its subsidiaries, interest rates and any actions taken by credit rating agencies that could negatively affect FirstEnergys and its subsidiaries access to financing or their costs and increase requirements to post additional collateral to support outstanding commodity positions, LOCs and other financial guarantees, the continuing uncertainty of the national and regional economy and its impact on the major industrial and commercial customers of FirstEnergys subsidiaries, issues concerning the soundness of financial institutions and counterparties with which FirstEnergy and its subsidiaries do business, issues arising from the recently completed merger of FirstEnergy and Allegheny Energy, Inc. and the ongoing coordination of their combined operations including FirstEnergys ability to maintain relationships with customers, employees or suppliers, as well as the ability to successfully integrate the businesses and realize cost savings and any other synergies and the risk that the credit ratings of the combined company or its subsidiaries may be different from what the companies expect, the risks and other factors discussed from time to time in FirstEnergys and its applicable subsidiaries SEC filings, and other similar factors. Dividends declared from time to time on FirstEnergy's common stock during any annual period may in aggregate vary from the indicated amount due to circumstances considered by FirstEnergy's Board of Directors at the time of the actual declarations. A security rating is not a recommendation to buy, or hold securities and is subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating agency. Each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. The foregoing review of factors should not be construed as exhaustive. New factors emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for management to predict all such factors, nor assess the impact of any such factor on FirstEnergys business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. FirstEnergy expressly disclaims any current intention to update any forward-looking statements contained herein as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Forward-Looking Statements:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


