FILE:FE/FE-8K-20111101095653.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2.):
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On November 1, 2011, FirstEnergy Corp. issued two public documents, which are attached as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 hereto and incorporated by reference. FirstEnergy's Press Release and Consolidated Report to the Financial Community contain non-GAAP* financial measures. Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, FirstEnergy has provided quantitative reconciliations within the Press Release and Consolidated Report to the Financial Community of the non-GAAP* financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
The Press Release and Consolidated Report to the Financial Community contain references to non-GAAP* financial measures including, among others, normalized earnings per share, which are not calculated in accordance with GAAP because they exclude the impact of "special items." Special items reflect the impact on earnings of events that are not routine or that may be related to discontinued businesses. Management believes presenting normalized earnings calculated in this manner provides useful information to investors in evaluating the ongoing results of FirstEnergy's businesses and assists investors in comparing FirstEnergys operating performance to the operating performance of other companies in the energy sector. Management believes presenting this non-GAAP* measure provides useful information to investors in assessing FirstEnergy's normalized operating performance. FirstEnergy's management frequently references this non-GAAP* financial measure in its decision-making, using it to facilitate historical and ongoing performance comparisons as well as comparisons to the performance of peer companies.
The non-GAAP* information presented in the Press Release and Consolidated Report to the Financial Community should be considered in addition to, and not as a substitute for, the most directly comparable financial measure prepared in accordance with GAAP. Also, the non-GAAP* financial measure may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other entities.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
*This Form 8-K contains non-GAAP financial measures. Generally, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a company's historical or future financial performance, financial position, or cash flows that either excludes or includes amounts, or is subject to adjustment that has the effect of excluding or including amounts, that are not normally excluded or included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, or GAAP.
 
 
 
2
 
 
This Form 8-K includes forward-looking statements based on information currently available to management. Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. These statements include declarations regarding management's intents, beliefs and current expectations. These statements typically contain, but are not limited to, the terms "anticipate," "potential," "expect," "believe," "estimate" and similar words. Forward-looking statements involve estimates, assumptions, known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Actual results may differ materially due to: the speed and nature of increased competition in the electric utility industry, the impact of the regulatory process on the pending matters in the various states in which we do business including, but not limited to, matters related to rates, the status of the PATH project in light of PJM's direction to suspend work on the project pending review of its planning process, its re-evaluation of the need for the project and the uncertainty of the timing and amounts of any related capital expenditures, business and regulatory impacts from ATSI's realignment into PJM Interconnection, L.L.C., economic or weather conditions affecting future sales and margins, changes in markets for energy services, changing energy and commodity market prices and availability, financial derivative reforms that could increase our liquidity needs and collateral costs, the continued ability of FirstEnergy's regulated utilities to collect transition and other costs, operation and maintenance costs being higher than anticipated, other legislative and regulatory changes, and revised environmental requirements, including possible GHG emission, water intake and coal combustion residual regulations, the potential impacts of any laws, rules or regulations that ultimately replace CAIR including the Cross-State Air Pollution Rule (CSAPR) and the effects of the EPA's recently released MACT proposal to establish certain mercury and other emission standards for electric generating units, the uncertainty of the timing and amounts of the capital expenditures that may arise in connection with any NSR litigation or potential regulatory initiatives or rulemakings (including that such expenditures could result in our decision to shut down or idle certain generating units), adverse regulatory or legal decisions and outcomes with respect to our nuclear operations (including, but not limited to, the revocation or non-renewal of necessary licenses, approvals or operating permits by the NRC, including as a result of the incident at Japan's Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Plant), issues that could delay the current outage at Davis-Besse for the installation of the new reactor vessel head, including indications of cracking in the plants shield building currently under investigation, adverse legal decisions and outcomes related to Met-Ed's and Penelec's ability to recover certain transmission costs through their transmission service charge riders, the continuing availability of generating units and changes in their ability to operate at or near full capacity, replacement power costs being higher than anticipated or inadequately hedged, the ability to comply with applicable state and federal reliability standards and energy efficiency mandates, changes in customers' demand for power, including but not limited to, changes resulting from the implementation of state and federal energy efficiency mandates, the ability to accomplish or realize anticipated benefits from strategic goals and our ability to improve electric commodity margins and the impact of, among other factors, the increased cost of coal and coal transportation on such margins, the ability to experience growth in the distribution business, the changing market conditions that could affect the value of assets held in FirstEnergy's nuclear decommissioning trusts, pension trusts and other trust funds, and cause FirstEnergy to make additional contributions sooner, or in amounts that are larger than currently anticipated, the ability to access the public securities and other capital and credit markets in accordance with FirstEnergy's financing plan, the cost of such capital and overall condition of the capital and credit markets affecting FirstEnergy and its subsidiaries, changes in general economic conditions affecting FirstEnergy and its subsidiaries, interest rates and any actions taken by credit rating agencies that could negatively affect FirstEnergy's and its subsidiaries' access to financing or their costs and increase requirements to post additional collateral to support outstanding commodity positions, LOCs and other financial guarantees, the continuing uncertainty of the national and regional economy and its impact on the major industrial and commercial customers of FirstEnergy's subsidiaries, issues concerning the soundness of financial institutions and counterparties with which FirstEnergy and its subsidiaries do business, issues arising from the recently completed merger of FirstEnergy and Allegheny Energy, Inc. and the ongoing coordination of their combined operations including FirstEnergy's ability to maintain relationships with customers, employees or suppliers, as well as the ability to successfully integrate the businesses and realize cost savings and any other synergies and the risk that the credit ratings of the combined company or its subsidiaries may be different from what the companies expect, the risks and other factors discussed from time to time in FirstEnergy's and its applicable subsidiaries' SEC filings, and other similar factors. Dividends declared from time to time on FirstEnergy's common stock during any annual period may in aggregate vary from the indicated amount due to circumstances considered by FirstEnergy's Board of Directors at the time of the actual declarations. A security rating is not a recommendation to buy, or hold securities and is subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating agency. Each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating.  The foregoing review of factors should not be construed as exhaustive. New factors emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for management to predict all such factors, nor assess the impact of any such factor on FirstEnergy's business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. The Registrant expressly disclaims any current intention to update any forward-looking statements contained herein as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. 
Forward-Looking Statements:  
 
 
 
 
3
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
November 1, 2011
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
Akron, Ohio  FirstEnergy Corp. (NYSE: FE) today announced third quarter 2011 basic and diluted earnings of $1.34 per share of common stock on a non-GAAP* basis.  These results exclude the impact of special items listed further below.  This compares to basic and diluted non-GAAP earnings of $1.28 per share in the third quarter of 2010.
On a GAAP basis, third quarter 2011 basic and diluted earnings were $1.22 per share of common stock on net income of $509 million and revenue of $4.7 billion.  Third quarter 2010 basic and diluted GAAP earnings were $0.59 per share on net income of $175 million, with revenue of $3.7 billion.
During the third quarter we continued making steady progress toward our merger and financial targets, and our team remains focused on meeting its commitments and continuing our success, said FirstEnergy President and Chief Executive Officer Anthony J. Alexander.  Based on our strong third quarter results and our continued confidence in our business strategy, we are reaffirming 2011 non-GAAP earnings guidance of $3.30 to $3.50 per share, and 2012 and 2013 non-GAAP guidance of $3.20 to $3.50 per share.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Third quarter 2011 non-GAAP* results benefited from higher sales margins the net accretion from the Allegheny merger, including the impact of shares issued in the merger.  Higher operating costs, including outage-related costs associated with the nuclear and fossil generation fleet, and higher financing costs and depreciation expense held down the increase in third quarter earnings.
and
Distribution deliveries, excluding Allegheny Energy deliveries, increased 2 percent in the quarter.  Usage by industrial customers increased 6 percent, as higher usage in the steel sector was partially offset by decreased demand in the automotive industry.  Residential sales increased
1 percent, and commercial deliveries decreased slightly.
Sales margins for FirstEnergy Solutions increased compared to the third quarter of 2010 due to higher retail sales, the benefit of fuel-contract restructuring, increased capacity auction revenues, and lower purchased power costs.
For the first nine months of 2011, net income was $725 million, or basic earnings of $1.89 per share of common stock ($1.88 diluted), on revenue of $12.4 billion.  This compares to 2010 net income of $580 million in the first nine months of the year, or basic earnings of $1.97 per share of common stock ($1.96 diluted), on revenue of $10.2 billion.
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
FirstEnergys Consolidated Report to the Financial Community  which provides highlights on company developments and financial results for the third quarter of 2011  is posted on the companys Investor Information website  To access the report, click on
www.firstenergycorp.com/ir
.
 
Third Quarter 2011 Consolidated Report to the Financial Community.
The company invites investors, customers and other interested parties to listen to a live Internet webcast of its teleconference for financial analysts at 1:00 p.m. Eastern Daylight Time today.  FirstEnergy management will present an overview of the companys financial results for the quarter, followed by a question-and-answer session.  The teleconference can be accessed on the companys website by selecting the link.  The webcast will be archived on the website.
Q3 2011 Earnings Conference Call
 
 
 
FirstEnergy is a diversified energy company dedicated to safety, reliability and operational excellence.  Its ten electric distribution companies comprise the nations largest investor-owned electric system.  Its diverse generating fleet features non-emitting nuclear, scrubbed baseload coal, natural gas, and pumped-storage hydro and other renewables, and has a total generating capacity of approximately 23,000 megawatts.
(*)  This news release contains non-GAAP financial measures.  Generally, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a company's historical or future financial performance, financial position, or cash flows that either excludes or includes amounts that are not normally excluded or included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP).   These non-GAAP financial measures are intended to complement, and not considered as an alternative to, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure.  Also, the non-GAAP financial measures may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other entities.
 
 
 
3
 
 
 
 
4
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
   Consolidated Report
 to the
Community                                                                           
Financial
Quarter 2011
Third
 
        
  
 (Unaudited) 
(Released November 1, 2011)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
.
*The 2011 GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliation statements can be found on page 18 of this report and all GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliation statements are available on the Investor Information section of FirstEnergy Corp.'s website at
www.firstenergycorp.com/ir
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
        Commodity Margin EPS Summary
 
 
 
 
(a)     FirstEnergy Solutions Corp.s (FES) contract generation sales decreased by 975,000 MWH, or 4%, and decreased earnings by $0.05    per share.  In line with FES strategy to realign its sales portfolio, POLR sales decreased by 6.9 million MWH, or 73%, as a result of lower POLR obligation and increased shopping in Ohio, as well as elimination of our POLR requirement in Pennsylvania.  This was partially offset by higher direct sales, which increased by 4.9 million MWH, or 62%, and higher governmental aggregation sales, which increased by 0.9 million MWH, or 25%. FES continues to successfully execute its retail strategy by gaining new customers in recently deregulated markets in Pennsylvania following the expiration of POLR obligations in December 2010. FES retail sales also grew significantly in Ohio and continues to expand in other markets, including Illinois, Michigan, New Jersey, and Maryland.
Contract Generation Sales
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
              
 
 
 
      
 
    
             
              
               
 
 
 
  
 (h)    FES net MISO-PJM transmission costs decreased earnings by $0.05 per share due primarily to higher congestion,     
Net MISO-PJM Transmission Expenses
            network, and transmission line loss expense in PJM.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
          
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Merger Benefits
 
FirstEnergy is on track to achieve the 2011 merger benefits target resulting from the merger with Allegheny Energy.  Through September 2011, FirstEnergy has taken actions and completed savings initiatives that are expected to allow it to capture merger benefits of approximately $165 million pre-tax on an annual basis, or 79% of the $210 million annual target.   The $165 million realized from savings initiatives completed through September, along with the impact of initiatives still underway, are being reflected in earnings throughout 2011.
 
 
2011 Earnings Guidance
 
Normalized non-GAAP* earnings guidance for 2011, excluding special items, remains at $3.30 to $3.50 per share. We are reaffirming our 2012 and 2013 non-GAAP* earnings guidance of $3.20 to $3.50 per share.
 
 
 
* The 2011 GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliation statements can be found on page 18 of this report and all GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliation statements are available on the Investor Information section of FirstEnergy Corp.'s website at
www.firstenergycorp.com/ir
.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FirstEnergy Corp.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FirstEnergy Corp.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Developments
Recent
 
Board of Directors
 
On September 20, 2011, FirstEnergy Corp. (FirstEnergy or FE) announced the election of Christopher D. Pappas to serve on its Board of Directors. Pappas is president and chief executive officer of Styron LLC (Trinseo SA), a leading global materials company located in Berwyn, Pa. The election of Pappas brings the size of FE's Board to 14 members.
Financial Matters
Dividend
On September 20, 2011, the Board of Directors declared an unchanged quarterly dividend of $0.55 per share of outstanding FE common stock. The dividend is payable December 1, 2011, to shareholders of record as of November 7, 2011.
Financing Activities
On July 14, 2011, Allegheny Generating Company (AGC) issued $100 million 5.06% Senior Notes due 2021. The proceeds were used to redeem $100 million 6.875% Senior Notes due 2023 on August 15, 2011.
During August and September, FE redeemed or repurchased approximately $410.3 million of Pollution Control Revenue Bonds (PCRBs), as summarized below:
 
 
Asset Sales
On October 18, 2011, FE announced that Gunvor Group, Ltd. purchased a one-third interest in the Signal Peak coal mine in Montana. The sale strengthens FEs balance sheet in the following ways:
Following the sale, FE, through its wholly-owned subsidiary, FE Ventures Corp., has a one-third interest in Global Mining Holding Company, LLC, a joint venture that owns Signal Peak. FGCO has revised its coal purchase agreement with Signal Peak to reduce delivery from 7.5 million tons annually to an obligation to accept up to 2 million tons each year.
On October 18, 2011, FE closed on the sale of its Richland (432 MW) and Stryker (18 MW) plants for approximately $80 million. The proceeds from the sale of these non-core assets will be used to reduce FEs net debt position.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Regulatory Matters
Cost Recovery Filing
On September 1, 2011, MP and Potomac Edison Company submitted a joint filing to the West Virginia Public Service Commission (WVPSC) to recover costs associated with fuel and purchased power. Under a cost recovery clause established by the WVPSC in 2007, customer bills are adjusted periodically to reflect upward or downward changes in the cost of fuel and purchased power. If the proposal is adopted as filed, bills will increase approximately 3% overall, starting January 1, 2012.
Operational Matters
Emission Allowances Auction
On October 24, 2011, FirstEnergy Solutions (FES) announced that a competitive bidding auction process will be conducted to sell sulfur dioxide (SO) and nitrogen oxides (NO) emission allowances for 2012 and 2013. The allowances are the result of the U. S. Environmental Protection Agencys recently enacted Cross State Air Pollution Rule (CSAPR). Bidding in the auction is tentatively scheduled to begin on November 17, 2011.  Information regarding the November 2011 Auction is posted on an informational website, . An ascending-price clock auction format will be used. The auction will be managed by CRA International, Inc. and will offer six products for sale:
2
X
www.fescsaprauction.info
Each of the products will be divided into identical blocks, or tranches, with each having a reserve price and a minimum quantity to sell at the reserve price. The minimum quantity of SO allowances being offered at the reserve price will be 50,000 for both 2012 and 2013.
2
 
 
Davis-Besse Outage
On October 1, 2011, the Davis-Besse Plant (908 MW) was safely shut down for a scheduled outage to install a new reactor vessel head and complete other maintenance activities. The new reactor head, which replaces a head installed in 2002, enhances safety, reliability and features control rod nozzles made of material less susceptible to cracking. On October 10, 2011, a sub-surface hairline crack was identified in one of the exterior architectural elements on the Shield Building, following opening of the building for installation of the new reactor head. These elements serve as architectural features and do not have structural significance. During investigation of the crack at the Shield Building opening, concrete samples and electronic testing found similar sub-surface hairline cracks in most of the buildings architectural elements. The team of industry-recognized structural concrete experts and Davis-Besse engineers evaluating this condition has determined the cracking does not affect the facilitys structural integrity or safety. FirstEnergy Nuclear Operating Companys (FENOC) investigation also identified other indications. Included among them were sub-surface hairline cracks in two localized areas of the Shield Building similar to those found in the architectural elements. FENOC has determined these two areas are not associated with the architectural element cracking and are investigating them as a separate issue. FENOCs overall investigation and analysis continues.Davis-Besse is currently expected to return to service around the end of November. For more information regarding the Davis-Besse outage, refer to the Letter to the Investment Community issued on October 31, 2011 as well as certain related information, which is available on FEs Investor Information website 
 
www.firstenergycorp.com/ir
.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Forward-Looking Statements:
This Consolidated Report to the Financial Community includes forward-looking statements based on information currently available to management. Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. These statements include declarations regarding managements intents, beliefs and current expectations. These statements typically contain, but are not limited to, the terms anticipate, potential, expect, believe, estimate and similar words. Forward-looking statements involve estimates, assumptions, known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Actual results may differ materially due to: the speed and nature of increased competition in the electric utility industry. the impact of the regulatory process on the pending matters in the various states in which we do business including, but not limited to, matters related to rates, the status of the PATH project in light of PJM's direction to suspend work on the project pending review of its planning process, its re-evaluation of the need for the project and the uncertainty of the timing and amounts of any related capital expenditures, business and regulatory impacts from ATSIs realignment into PJM Interconnection, L.L.C, economic or weather conditions affecting future sales and margins, changes in markets for energy services, changing energy and commodity market prices and availability, financial derivative reforms that could increase our liquidity needs and collateral costs, the continued ability of FirstEnergys regulated utilities to collect transition and other costs, operation and maintenance costs being higher than anticipated, other legislative and regulatory changes, and revised environmental requirements, including possible GHG emission, water intake and coal combustion residual regulations, the potential impacts of any laws, rules or regulations that ultimately replace CAIR including the Cross-State Air Pollution Rule (CSAPR) and the effects of the EPAs recently released MACT proposal to establish certain mercury and other emission standards for electric generating units, the uncertainty of the timing and amounts of the capital expenditures that may arise in connection with any NSR litigation or potential regulatory initiatives or rulemakings (including that such expenditures could result in our decision to shut down or idle certain generating units), adverse regulatory or legal decisions and outcomes with respect to our nuclear operations (including, but not limited to, the revocation or non-renewal of necessary licenses, approvals or operating permits by the NRC, including as a result of the incident at Japans Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Plant), issues that could delay the current outage at Davis-Besse for the installation of the new reactor vessel head, including indications of cracking in the plants shield building currently under investigation, adverse legal decisions and outcomes related to Met-Eds and Penelecs ability to recover certain transmission costs through their transmission service charge riders, the continuing availability of generating units and changes in their ability to operate at or near full capacity, replacement power costs being higher than anticipated or inadequately hedged, the ability to comply with applicable state and federal reliability standards and energy efficiency mandates, changes in customers demand for power, including but not limited to, changes resulting from the implementation of state and federal energy efficiency mandates, the ability to accomplish or realize anticipated benefits from strategic goals, efforts, and our ability, to improve electric commodity margins and the impact of, among other factors, the increased cost of coal and coal transportation on such margins, the ability to experience growth in the distribution business, the changing market conditions that could affect the value of assets held in FirstEnergys nuclear decommissioning trusts, pension trusts and other trust funds, and cause FirstEnergy to make additional contributions sooner, or in amounts that are larger than currently anticipated, the ability to access the public securities and other capital and credit markets in accordance with FirstEnergys financing plan, the cost of such capital and overall condition of the capital and credit markets affecting FirstEnergy and its subsidiaries, changes in general economic conditions affecting FirstEnergy and its subsidiaries, interest rates and any actions taken by credit rating agencies that could negatively affect FirstEnergys and its subsidiaries access to financing or their costs and increase requirements to post additional collateral to support outstanding commodity positions, LOCs and other financial guarantees, the continuing uncertainty of the national and regional economy and its impact on the major industrial and commercial customers of FirstEnergys subsidiaries, issues concerning the soundness of financial institutions and counterparties with which FirstEnergy and its subsidiaries do business, issues arising from the recently completed merger of FirstEnergy and Allegheny Energy, Inc. and the ongoing coordination of their combined operations including FirstEnergys ability to maintain relationships with customers, employees or suppliers, as well as the ability to successfully integrate the businesses and realize cost savings and any other synergies and the risk that the credit ratings of the combined company or its subsidiaries may be different from what the companies expect, the risks and other factors discussed from time to time in FirstEnergys and its applicable subsidiaries SEC filings, and other similar factors. Dividends declared from time to time on FirstEnergy's common stock during any annual period may in aggregate vary from the indicated amount due to circumstances considered by FirstEnergy's Board of Directors at the time of the actual declarations. A security rating is not a recommendation to buy, or hold securities and is subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating agency. Each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. The foregoing review of factors should not be construed as exhaustive. New factors emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for management to predict all such factors, nor assess the impact of any such factor on FirstEnergys business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. FirstEnergy expressly disclaims any current intention to update any forward-looking statements contained herein as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


