FILE:FE/FE-8K-20110216090615.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2.):
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On February 16, 2011, FirstEnergy Corp. issued two public documents, which are attached as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 hereto and incorporated by reference. FirstEnergy's Press Release and Consolidated Report to the Financial Community contain non-GAAP* financial measures. Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, FirstEnergy has provided quantitative reconciliations within the Press Release and Consolidated Report to the Financial Community of the non-GAAP* financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
The Press Release and Consolidated Report to the Financial Community include normalized earnings per share, which are not calculated in accordance with GAAP because they exclude the impact of "special items." Special items reflect the impact on earnings of events that are not routine or that may be related to discontinued businesses. Management believes presenting normalized earnings calculated in this manner provides useful information to investors in evaluating the ongoing results of FirstEnergy's businesses and assists investors in comparing FirstEnergys operating performance to the operating performance of other companies in the energy sector. Management believes presenting this non-GAAP* measure provides useful information to investors in assessing FirstEnergy's normalized operating performance. FirstEnergy's management freq uently references this non-GAAP* financial measure in its decision-making, using it to facilitate historical and ongoing performance comparisons as well as comparisons to the performance of peer companies.
The non-GAAP* information presented in the Press Release and Consolidated Report to the Financial Community should be considered in addition to, and not as a substitute for, the most directly comparable financial measure prepared in accordance with GAAP. Also, the non-GAAP* financial measure may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other entities.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
*This Form 8-K contains non-GAAP financial measures. Generally, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a company's historical or future financial performance, financial position, or cash flows that either excludes or includes amounts, or is subject to adjustment that has the effect of excluding or including amounts, that are not normally excluded or included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, or GAAP.
 
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
This Form 8-K includes forward-looking statements based on information currently available to management. Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. These statements include declarations regarding management's intents, beliefs and current expectations. These statements typically contain, but are not limited to, the terms "anticipate," "potential," "expect," "believe," "estimate" and similar words. Forward-looking statements involve estimates, assumptions, known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Actual results may differ mat erially due to the speed and nature of increased competition in the electric utility industry, the impact of the regulatory process on the pending matters in Ohio, Pennsylvania and New Jersey, business and regulatory impacts from American Transmission Systems, Incorporated's realignment into PJM Interconnection, L.L.C., economic or weather conditions affecting future sales and margins, changes in markets for energy services, changing energy and commodity market prices and availability, financial derivative reforms that could increase our liquidity needs and collateral costs, replacement power costs being higher than anticipated or inadequately hedged, the continued ability of FirstEnergy's regulated utilities to collect transition and other  costs, operating and maintenance costs being higher than anticipated, other legislative and regulatory changes, revised environmental requirements, including possible greenhouse gas emission and coal combustion regulations, the potential impacts of  a ny laws, rules or regulations that ultimately replace the Clean Air Interstate Rules, the uncertainty of the timing and amounts of the capital expenditures needed to, among other things, resolve any NSR litigation or other potential similar regulatory initiatives or rulemakings  (including that such amounts could be higher than anticipated or that certain generating units may need to be shut down), adverse regulatory or legal decisions and outcomes (including, but not limited to, the revocation of necessary licenses or operating permits and oversight) by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Metropolitan Edison Company's and Pennsylvania Electric Company's transmission service charge appeal at the Commonwealth Court of Pennsylvania, any impact resulting from the receipt by Signal Peak of the Department of Labor's notice of potential pattern of violations at Bull Mountain Mine No. 1, the continuing availability of generating units and their ability to operate at or near full capacity, the ability to co mply with applicable state and federal reliability standards, the ability to accomplish or realize anticipated benefits from strategic goals (including employee workforce initiatives), the ability to improve electric commodity margins and the impact of, among other factors, the increased cost of coal and coal transportation on such margins and the ability  to experience growth in the distribution business, the changing market conditions that could affect the value of assets held in FirstEnergy's nuclear decommissioning trusts, pension trusts and other trust funds, and cause it to make additional contributions sooner, or in an amount that is larger than currently anticipated, the ability to access the public securities and other capital and credit markets in accordance with FirstEnergy's financing plan and the cost of such capital, changes in general economic conditions affecting the company, the state of the capital and credit markets affecting the company, interest rates and any actions taken by c redit rating agencies that could negatively affect FirstEnergy's access to financing or its costs or increase its requirements to post additional collateral to support outstanding commodity positions, letters of credit and other financial guarantees, the continuing uncertainty in the national and regional economy and its impact on the company's major industrial and commercial customers, issues concerning the soundness of financial institutions and counterparties with which FirstEnergy does business, the expected timing and likelihood of completion of the proposed merger with Allegheny Energy, Inc., including the timing, receipt and terms and conditions of any required governmental and regulatory approvals of the proposed merger that could reduce anticipated benefits or cause the parties to abandon the merger, the diversion of management's time and attention from our ongoing business during this time period, the ability to maintain relationships with customers, employees or suppliers as well as the ability to successfully integrate the businesses and realize cost savings and any other synergies and the risk that the credit ratings of the combined company or its subsidiaries may be different from what the companies expect and the risks and other factors discussed from time to time in its Securities and Exchange Commission filings, and other similar factors. The foregoing review of factors should not be construed as exhaustive. Dividends declared from time to time on FirstEnergys common stock during any annual period may in aggregate vary from the indicated amount due to circumstances considered by FirstEnergys Board of Directors at the time of the actual declarations. New factors emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for management to predict all such factors, nor assess the impact of any such factor on FirstEnergy's business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. The Regi strant expressly disclaims any current intention to update any forward-looking statements contained herein as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise
Forward-Looking Statements:  
 
 
3
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto authorized.
February 16, 2011
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
AKRON, Ohio  FirstEnergy Corp. (NYSE: FE) today reported 2010 basic earnings of $3.62 per share of common stock ($3.61 diluted) on a non-GAAP* basis.  These results exclude the special items listed in the table.  This compares to 2009 basic non-GAAP earnings of $3.77 per share ($3.75 diluted).  On a GAAP basis, 2010 basic earnings were $2.58 per share ($2.57 diluted) on net income of $760 million, and revenue of $13.34 billion.  In 2009, basic earnings were $3.31 per share ($3.29 diluted), on net income of $990 million, and revenue of $12.97 billion.  
Fourth quarter 2010 non-GAAP basic earnings were $0.71 per share of common stock ($0.70 diluted).  In the fourth quarter of 2009, non-GAAP basic and diluted earnings were $0.77 per share.  On a GAAP basis, fourth quarter 2010 basic and diluted earnings were $0.61 per share, on net income of $180 million and revenue of
$3.22 billion.  This compares to basic and diluted earnings of $0.78 per share in the fourth quarter of 2009, on net income of $236 million, and revenue of $2.96 billion.  
In a challenging year of soft power prices and a slowly recovering economy, we benefited from the continued success of our competitive strategy, which effectively tripled the retail customers for our FirstEnergy Solutions subsidiary last year, said Anthony J. Alexander, president and chief executive officer of FirstEnergy.  We also saw a modest recovery in industrial sales and a return to more normal weather in our service territory.  And, we continued to hold the line on costs, all of which helped us end the year within our guidance, which was revised to the upper end of the initial range in August.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fourth Quarter and Full Year GAAP to Non-GAAP* Reconciliation
                                                                                                                                                         & #160;                        
 
Electric generation sales by FirstEnergy Solutions (FES) were up 26 percent for the year and 23 percent in the quarter compared to the same periods in 2009  The sales growth in the fourth quarter reflects FES continued success in the direct and governmental aggregation sales channels, as well as higher wholesale sales.
.
Total distribution deliveries in 2010 increased by 6 percent compared to 2009, and by 2 percent in the fourth quarter.  The hot summer weather and colder weather at the end of 2010, compared with milder conditions in 2009, contributed to increased customer usage.
In addition to higher generation and distribution revenues, adjusted 2010 full-year results benefited from lower operating expenses and the impact of delivery service improvement riders in Ohio.  These factors were partially offset by higher fuel and purchased power costs, reduced transition cost recovery by Cleveland Electric Illuminating Co., the absence of an income tax adjustment that benefited 2009 results and a reduction in investment income from the companys nuclear decommissioning trust.
 
 
 
2
 
Fourth quarter 2010 results benefited primarily from growth in FES sales margins and higher distribution deliveries.  These positive factors were offset by the absence of the 2009 income tax adjustment and higher operating costs, primarily related to the acceleration of work activities that were originally planned for future periods.
Our accomplishments in 2010 set the stage for the continued improvement of our financial metrics and a number of exciting transitions in 2011, including the completion of our merger with Allegheny Energy, Alexander said.
FirstEnergys Consolidated Report to the Financial Community  which provides highlights on company developments and financial results for the year and for the fourth quarter of 2010  is posted on the companys website  To access the report, click on Q4 2010 Consolidated Report to the Financial Community.
www.firstenergycorp.com/ir
.
 
The company invites investors, customers and other interested parties to listen to a live Internet webcast of its teleconference for financial analysts at 1:00 p.m. Eastern Time today.  FirstEnergy management will present an overview of the companys financial results for the quarter, followed by a question-and-answer session.  The teleconference can be accessed on the companys website by selecting the link.  The webcast will be archived on the website.
Q4 2010 Earnings Conference Call
 
 
(*)  This news release contains non-GAAP financial measures.  Generally, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a company's historical or future financial performance, financial position, or cash flows that either excludes or includes amounts that are not normally excluded or included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP).   These non-GAAP financial measures are intended to complement, and not considered as an alternative, to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure.  Also, the non-GAAP financial measures may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other entities.
 
 
 
3
 
 
This news release includes forward-looking statements based on information currently available to management. Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. These statements include declarations regarding management's intents, beliefs and current expectations. These statements typically contain, but are not limited to, the terms "anticipate," "potential," "expect," "believe," "estimate" and similar words. Forward-looking statements involve estimates, assumptions, known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Actual results may differ mater ially due to the speed and nature of increased competition in the electric utility industry, the impact of the regulatory process on the pending matters in Ohio, Pennsylvania and New Jersey, business and regulatory impacts from American Transmission Systems, Incorporated's realignment into PJM Interconnection, L.L.C., economic or weather conditions affecting future sales and margins, changes in markets for energy services, changing energy and commodity market prices and availability, financial derivative reforms that could increase our liquidity needs and collateral costs, replacement power costs being higher than anticipated or inadequately hedged, the continued ability of FirstEnergy's regulated utilities to collect transition and other  costs, operating and maintenance costs being higher than anticipated, other legislative and regulatory changes, revised environmental requirements, including possible greenhouse gas emission and coal combustion regulations, the potential impacts of  any laws, rules or regulations that ultimately replace the Clean Air Interstate Rules , the uncertainty of the timing and amounts of the capital expenditures needed to, among other things, resolve any NSR litigation or other potential similar regulatory initiatives or rulemakings  (including that such amounts could be higher than anticipated or that certain generating units may need to be shut down) , adverse regulatory or legal decisions and outcomes (including, but not limited to, the revocation of necessary licenses or operating permits and oversight) by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Metropolitan Edison Company's and Pennsylvania Electric Company's transmission service charge appeal at the Commonwealth Court of Pennsylvania, any impact resulting from the receipt by Signal Peak of the Department of Labor's notice of a potential pattern of violations at Bull Mountain Mine No. 1, the continuing availability of generating units and their ability to operate at or near full capacity, the ability to comply with applicable state and federal reliability standards, the ability to accomplish or realize anticipated benefits from strategic goals (including employee workforce initiatives), the ability to improve electric commodity margins and the impact of, among other factors, the increased cost of coal and coal transportation on such margins and the ability  to experience growth in the distribution business, the changing market conditions that could affect the value of assets held in FirstEnergy's nuclear decommissioning trusts, pension trusts and other trust funds, and cause it to make additional contributions sooner, or in an amount that is larger than currently anticipated, the ability to access the public securities and other capital and credit markets in accordance with FirstEnergy's financing plan and the cost of such capital, changes in general economic conditions affecting the company, the state of the capital and credit markets affecting the company, interest rates and any actions taken by credit rating agencies that could negatively affect FirstEnergy's access to financing or its costs or increase its requirements to post additional collateral to support outstanding commodity positions, letters of credit and other financial guarantees, the continuing uncertainty in the national and regional economy and its impact on the company's major industrial and commercial customers, issues concerning the soundness of financial institutions and counterparties with which FirstEnergy does business, the expected timing and likelihood of completion of the proposed merger with Allegheny Energy, Inc., including the timing, receipt and terms and conditions of any required governmental and regulatory approvals of the proposed merger that could reduce anticipated benefits or cause the parties to abandon the merger, the diversion of management's time and attention from our ongoing business during this time period, the ability to maintain relationships with customers, employees or suppliers as well as the ability to successfully integrate the businesses and realize cost savings and any other synergies and the risk that the credit ratings of the combined company or its subsidiaries may be different from what the companies expect and the risks and other factors discussed from time to time in its Securities and Exchange Commission filings, and other similar factors. The foregoing review of factors should not be construed as exhaustive.  New factors emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for management to predict all such factors, nor assess the impact of any such factor on FirstEnergy's business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. FirstEnergy expressly disclaims any current intention to update any forward-looking statements contained herein as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
Forward-Looking Statements:
 
(021611)
 
 
 
4
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
Report
Consolidated
 to the Financial Community                                                                           
Fourth Quarter 2010
 
              
(Released February 16, 2011)
 
 
 
FirstEnergy Solutions Corp.s (FES) generation sales increased 3.4 million MWH, or 23%, and increased earnings by $0.49 per share.  FES continues to successfully execute its retail strategy by gaining customers in Ohio through direct and governmental aggregation sales channels.    FES retail sales also grew significantly in all other markets it serves, with expansion into multiple new territories, including central and southern Ohio, Michigan and  Pennsylvania, and continued growth in existing territories.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FES wholesale electricity sales increased 1.2 million MWH, or 58%, increasing earnings by $0.07 per share.
 
 
 
 
Generation output for the quarter increased 3.6 million MWH, or 23%. Approximately 2.2 million MWH of the 2.8 million increase in fossil generation output was from the baseload units, while nuclear generation output increased 834,000 MWH.
 
 
 
 
Higher fuel expenses reduced earnings by $0.18 per share.  Fossil fuel expenses increased $0.16 per share due to increased coal consumption, higher coal transportation costs and fuel surcharges.  Nuclear fuel expenses increased $0.02 per share due to higher volume and unit prices.
 
Increased purchased power costs reduced earnings by $0.12 per share. The increase in energy purchases was primarily attributable to increased spot market purchases in PJM.  The increase in PJM energy purchases resulted from higher POLR and retail load requirements.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Commodity Margin EPS Summary
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
*
The 2010 GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliation statements can be found on page 16 of this report and all GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliation statements are available on the Investor Information section of FirstEnergy Corp.'s website at
www.firstenergycorp.com/ir
.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Developments
Recent
 
Merger Matters
Pennsylvania State Filing
On October 25, 2010, FirstEnergy (FE) and Allegheny Energy (AYE) filed a comprehensive settlement with the Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission (PPUC) that addresses issues raised by 18 of the parties to the merger.  On December 20, 2010 the Administrative Law Judges issued their initial decision on the merger. FE provided a five-year commitment to maintain at least 800 jobs in Greensburg and Westmoreland County for the first year after the merger close, 675 jobs for the following 12 months, 650 jobs for the next year and 600 jobs for each of the next two years, subject to certain conditions; nearly $11 million in distribution rate credits for West Penn Power customers; a distribution rate freeze for FE's current Pennsylvania utility customers and support for renewable and sustainable energy and customer choice. A PPUC decision is pen ding.
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC)
On December 16, 2010, the companies received approval from the FERC.
West Virginia State Filing
On December 16, 2010, the West Virginia Public Service Commission approved the merger. FE committed to a regional headquarters for Allegheny Powers West Virginia utility operations; $7.5 million rate reduction over two years for Allegheny Powers West Virginia customers; and commitment to maintain call center operations in Fairmont for at least five years.
Department of Justice (DOJ)
On January 7, 2011, the DOJ completed its merger review process and closed its investigation.
Maryland State Filing
On January 18, 2011, the Maryland Public Service Commission (PSC) approved the merger.   FE committed to locate a regional headquarters in Potomac Edisons Maryland service territory; a one-time $6.5 million credit to be provided to Potomac Edisons residential electric distribution customers; a reduction of $750,000 in costs to customers for EmPower Maryland Programs and a $600,000 contribution of corporate funds for the Electric Universal Service Program.
Financial Matters
Dividend
On December 21, 2010, the FE Board of Directors declared an unchanged quarterly dividend of 55 cents per share of outstanding common stock for the first quarter of 2011 and on February 15, 2011, the FE Board of Directors declared an unchanged quarterly dividend of 55 cents per share of outstanding common stock for the second quarter of 2011.  The dividend declarations provide contingent dividend payment scenarios to reflect possible timing of the completion of the pending merger with AYE.
Financing Activities
On December 3, 2010, FirstEnergy Solutions Corp. (FES) and Pennsylvania Electric Company (Penelec) completed the refinancing and remarketing of five series of Pollution Control Revenue Bonds totaling $178 million.  These series were converted from variable rates to fixed interest rates ranging from 2.25% to 3.75% per-annum and are subject to mandatory purchase between April 1, 2011 and December 1, 2014.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Regulatory Matters
Ohio Generation Auction
On January 25, 2011, Ohio Edison Company, The Cleveland Electric Illuminating Company and The Toledo Edison Company (Ohio Utilities) conducted the second in a series of auctions to procure generation for customers who choose not to shop with an alternative supplier for delivery beginning June 1, 2011 through May 31, 2014.  The auction consisted of one, two and three-year products.  Fifty tranches in total were acquired through this auction. Seventeen tranches of the one-year product were acquired at a clearing price of $56.13 per MWh; seventeen tranches of the two-year product were acquired a clearing price of $54.92 per MWh; and sixteen tranches of the three-year product were acquired at a clearing price of $57.47 per MWh.  There were 10 registered bidders that participated in the auction, with 7 bidders winning tranches in the auction.  FES participated and was the winning bidder for three tranches of the one-year product and three tranches of the three-year product.  On January 27, 2010, the Public Utilities Commission of Ohio (PUCO) accepted the results of the auction. The next auction is scheduled for October 2011.
at
Significantly Excessive Earnings Test (SEET)
On November 22, 2010, the PUCO unanimously
 
approved a stipulation between the parties resolving all issues related to the Ohio Utilities SEET application filed on September 1, 2010. The stipulation recommended that the PUCO determine that there were no significantly excessive earnings in 2009.
Met-Ed, Penelec and Penn Power Generation Procurement
On January 18-20, 2011, the Pennsylvania utilities conducted auctions to procure a portion of the default service requirements for Metropolitan Edison (Met-Ed), Penelec and Pennsylvania Power (Penn Power) customers who choose not to shop with an alternative supplier.  The January 2011 auction was the third of four auctions for Met-Ed and Penelec and the first of two auctions for Penn Power to procure commercial default service requirements for the 12-month period of June 1, 2011 to May 31, 2012 and residential requirements for the 24-month period of June 1, 2011 to May 31, 2013.   For Met-Ed, Penelec and Penn Power commercial customers the tranche-weighted average price ($/MWh) was $69.97, $59.32 and $57.88, respectively, and for residential customers the tranche-weighted average price was $70.69, $59.74 and $55.39, respe ctively.  This was also the first of two auctions held to procure residential service requirements for the 12-month period of June 1, 2011 to May 31, 2012.  For Met-Ed, Penelec and Penn Power residential customers the tranche-weighted average price ($/MWh) was $67.43, $58.01 and $60.29, respectively. In addition, the January 2011 auction procured supply for Met-Ed and Penelec industrial customers opting in to Hourly Price Default Service.  For Met-Ed and Penelec, the average 12-month price ($/MWh) was $9.90 and $9.91, respectively.
 
FERC Rate Filing
On February 1, 2011, American Transmission Systems, Inc. (ATSI) and PJM Interconnection, LLC (PJM) jointly filed with FERC to establish transmission rates and make PJM tariff and operating agreement changes.  The rates would be effective June 1, 2011, concurrent with ATSIs integration into PJM.
Operational Matters
Burger Biomass
On November 17, 2010, FE announced plans to cancel the repowering of R.E. Burger units 4 and 5 (312 MW) to generate electricity principally with biomass.  The units were permanently shut down on December 31, 2010, due to current market conditions.  The avoided capital cost to retrofit Burger was estimated to be $200 million.
Beaver Valley Refueling
On November 4, 2010, Beaver Valley Nuclear Power Station Unit 1 (911 MW) returned to service after completing its scheduled refueling and maintenance outage which began on October 2, 2010.  Several projects were completed to ensure continued safe and reliable operations, including replacement of one of three reactor coolant pump motors and maintenance work and inspections on various plant components. Sixty of the 157 fuel assemblies were exchanged during the outage.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ohio Valley Electric Corporation (OVEC)
On December 28, 2010, FE announced the sale of FirstEnergy Generation Corp.s  6.65% participation interest in the output of OVEC (approximately 150 MW) to Peninsula Generation Cooperative, a subsidiary of Wolverine Power Supply Cooperative, Inc.  FEs remaining interest in OVEC is 4.85%.
Ohio Wind Power Project
On February 8, 2011, FES announced its agreement to purchase 100 MW of output from Blue Creek Wind Farm (304 MW), which is being built in western Ohio by Iberdrola Renewables.
 
Under terms of the agreement FES will purchase 100 MW of the total output of the project for 20 years beginning in October of 2012.
Fremont Energy Center
On February 9, 2011, FE entered into a non-binding Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) for the sale of its Fremont Energy Center (707 MW) to American Municipal Power, Inc.  The MOU provides, among other things, for the parties to engage in exclusive negotiations toward AMP executing a definitive agreement by March 11, 2011, to purchase the facility on or about July 1, 2011.  Fremont is currently under construction and scheduled to be completed in 2011.  The plant includes two natural gas turbines and a steam turbine capable of producing 544 MW of load-following capacity and 163 MW of peaking capacity.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This Consolidated Report to the Financial Community includes forward-looking statements based on information currently available to management. Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. These statements include declarations regarding management's intents, beliefs and current expectations. These statements typically contain, but are not limited to, the terms "anticipate," "potential," "expect," "believe," "estimate" and similar words. Forward-looking statements involve estimates, assumptions, known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Ac tual results may differ materially due to the speed and nature of increased competition in the electric utility industry, the impact of the regulatory process on the pending matters in Ohio, Pennsylvania and New Jersey, business and regulatory impacts from American Transmission Systems, Incorporated's realignment into PJM Interconnection, L.L.C., economic or weather conditions affecting future sales and margins, changes in markets for energy services, changing energy and commodity market prices and availability, financial derivative reforms that could increase our liquidity needs and collateral costs, replacement power costs being higher than anticipated or inadequately hedged, the continued ability of FirstEnergy's regulated utilities to collect transition and other costs, operating and maintenance costs being higher than anticipated, other legislative and regulatory changes, revised environmental requirements, including possible greenhouse gas emission and coal combustion regulations, the potential impacts of any laws, rules or regulations that ultimately replace the Clean Air Interstate Rules, the uncertainty of the timing and amounts of the capital expenditures needed to, among other things, resolve any NSR litigation or other potential similar regulatory initiatives or rulemakings (including that such amounts could be higher than anticipated or that certain generating units may need to be shut down), adverse regulatory or legal decisions and outcomes (including, but not limited to, the revocation of necessary licenses or operating permits and oversight) by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Metropolitan Edison Company's and Pennsylvania Electric Company's transmission service charge appeal at the Commonwealth Court of Pennsylvania, any impact resulting from the receipt by Signal Peak of the Department of Labors notice of potential pattern violations at Bull Mountain Mine No. 1, the continuing availability of generating units and their ability to operate at or near full capacity, the ability to compl y with applicable state and federal reliability standards, the ability to accomplish or realize anticipated benefits from strategic goals (including employee workforce initiatives), the ability to improve electric commodity margins and the impact of, among other factors, the increase cost of coal and coal transportation on such margins and the ability to experience growth in the distribution business, the changing market conditions that could affect the value of assets held in FirstEnergy's nuclear decommissioning trusts, pension trusts and other trust funds, and cause it to make additional contributions sooner, or in an amount that is larger than currently anticipated, the ability to access the public securities and other capital and credit markets in accordance with FirstEnergy's financing plan and the cost of such capital, changes in general economic conditions affecting the company, the state of the capital and credit markets affecting the company, interest rates and any actions taken by credit rating ag encies that could negatively affect FirstEnergy's access to financing or its costs or increase its requirements to post additional collateral to support outstanding commodity positions, letters of credit and other financial guarantees, the continuing uncertainty in the national and regional economy and its impact on the company's major industrial and commercial customers, issues concerning the soundness of financial institutions and counterparties with which FirstEnergy does business, the expected timing and likelihood of completion of the proposed merger with Allegheny Energy, Inc., including the timing, receipt and terms and conditions of any required governmental and regulatory approvals of the proposed merger that could reduce anticipated benefits or cause the parties to abandon the merger, the diversion of management's time and attention from our ongoing business during this time period, the ability to maintain relationships with customers, employees or suppliers as well as the ability to successfully i ntegrate the businesses and realize cost savings and any other synergies and the risk that the credit ratings of the combined company or its subsidiaries may be different from what the companies expect and the risks and other factors discussed from time to time in its Securities and Exchange Commission filings, and other similar factors. The foregoing review of factors should not be construed as exhaustive. Dividends declared from time to time on FirstEnergys common stock during any annual period may in aggregate vary from the indicated amount due to circumstances considered by FirstEnergys Board of Directors at the time of actual declarations. New factors emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for management to predict all such factors, nor assess the impact of any such factor on FirstEnergy's business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. FirstEnergy expressly discl aims any current intention to update any forward-looking statements contained herein as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
Forward-Looking Statements:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


