FILE:FE/FE-8K-20110225165540.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2.):
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 2.01. Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets.
     On February 25, 2011, FirstEnergy Corp. ("FirstEnergy") completed its previously announced merger with Allegheny Energy, Inc. ("Allegheny Energy"). Pursuant to the terms and conditions of the Agreement and Plan of Merger (the "Merger Agreement"), by and among FirstEnergy, Allegheny Energy and Element Merger Sub, Inc., a direct wholly-owned subsidiary of FirstEnergy ("Merger Sub"), dated as of February 10, 2010, as amended as of June 4, 2010, Merger Sub was merged with and into Allegheny Energy, with Allegheny Energy surviving the merger (the "Merger") and becoming a wholly-owned subsidiary of FirstEnergy.
     Pursuant to the Merger Agreement, FirstEnergy issued to Allegheny Energy stockholders 0.667 of a share of FirstEnergy common stock, par value $0.10 per share, for each outstanding share of Allegheny Energy common stock. Upon closing of the Merger, Allegheny Energy became a wholly owned subsidiary of FirstEnergy and the shares of Allegheny Energy common stock, which traded under the symbol "AYE," have ceased trading on, and are being delisted from, the New York Stock Exchange.
     The foregoing description of the Merger Agreement and the Merger does not purport to be complete and is qualified in it is entirety by reference to the Merger Agreement, which is incorporated by reference as Exhibits 2.1 and 2.2 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
     Additional information regarding Allegheny Energy and its business can be found in its Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 23, 2011.
Item 3.03. Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders.
     The disclosure provided under Item 5.03 below is incorporated by reference herein.
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
Completion of Merger
     In connection with the Merger described in Item 2.01 of this Current Report on Form 8-K and pursuant to the terms of the Merger Agreement, the Board of Directors of FirstEnergy (the "Board") expanded its size from 11 to 13 and appointed two former directors of Allegheny Energy, Julia L. Johnson and Ted J. Kleisner, as members of the Board, effective immediately after the Effective Time (as defined in the Merger Agreement). Each director will serve for a term expiring at the annual meeting of shareholders in 2011 and until his or her successor is elected, or until his or her earlier resignation or removal.
     The following is a brief biography of the directors appointed to the Board in connection with the Merger:
     Julia L. Johnson, age 48, has been President of NetCommunications, LLC, a national regulatory and public affairs firm focusing primarily on energy, telecommunications and broadcast regulation, since 2000. She is a director of American Water Works Company, Inc., MasTec, Inc. and NorthWestern Corporation. Ms. Johnson served as a director of Allegheny Energy, Inc. from 2003 to 2011.
     Ted J. Kleisner, age 66, has been Chief Executive Officer of Hershey Entertainment & Resorts Company, an entertainment and hospitality company, since 2007. He was also President of Hershey Entertainment & Resorts Company from 2007 to 2010. Mr. Kleisner was the President of CSX Hotels, Inc. (d/b/a The Greenbrier) from 1988 to 2006 and President and Chief Executive Officer of The Greenbrier Resort & Club Management Company from 1988 to 2006. Mr. Kleisner served as a director of Allegheny Energy, Inc. from 2001 to 2011.
 
     The appointed directors will be compensated for their services on the Board in the same manner as the other Board members. As of the date of this Current Report on Form 8-K, the Board committee assignments of Ms. Johnson and Mr. Kleisner have not yet been determined.
     FirstEnergy will also enter into an Indemnification Agreement with each of Ms. Johnson and Mr. Kleisner. The form of Indemnification Agreement to be entered into with each director was previously filed with the SEC as Exhibit 10.1 to FirstEnergy's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2009 and is incorporated into this Item 5.02 by reference.
     Further, in connection with the consummation of the Merger, Paul J. Evanson's Employment Agreement, dated March 19, 2010, has become effective. Mr. Evanson's Employment Agreement was previously summarized in FirstEnergy's Registration Statement on Form S-4, as amended. Mr. Evanson's Employment Agreement is incorporated by reference as Exhibit 10.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
Change in Control Definition
     On February 25, 2011, the Board approved revisions to the definition of "change in control" within the FirstEnergy Corp. 2007 Incentive Compensation Plan, effective January 1, 2011, and the FirstEnergy Corp. Executive Deferred Compensation Plan, the FirstEnergy Corp. Deferred Compensation Plan for Outside Directors and the FirstEnergy Corp. Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan, effective January 1, 2012. The Board also granted authority to a designated officer of FirstEnergy to make the same revisions to the "change in control" definition in the FirstEnergy Corp. Executive Benefit Plans Security Trust Agreement Third Restatement and the FirstEnergy Corp. Trust Agreement for Outside Directors Third Restatement, effective January 1, 2012. The definition of "change in control" in the above referenced plans was revised by the Board to better align the definition with market practice, conform the change in control definition among FirstEnergy's various plans and make certain other clarifying changes. Elements of the change in control trigger that were revised include (i) the acquisition by a person of beneficial ownership of 25% or more of FirstEnergy's voting securities (from a previous level of 50% and without regard to whether such person proposed a nominee to the Board) and (ii) the consummation of a Major Corporate Event (defined to include mergers and consolidations and certain asset sales) where FirstEnergy shareholders hold less than 60% of the combined voting power of the surviving corporation (from the previous level of 75% with a requirement that their pre-transaction and post-transaction holdings remain proportionate). Except for the above-referenced terms and certain other clarifying changes, no other terms of the existing definition were modified.
Change in Control Severance Plan
     On February 25, 2011 the Board approved the FirstEnergy Corp. Change in Control Severance Plan (the "CIC Severance Plan") to provide for the payment of severance benefits to certain eligible executives of FirstEnergy, including all actively employed named executive officers (the "NEOs"), in the event their employment with FirstEnergy terminates involuntarily in connection with a change in control of FirstEnergy. The CIC Severance Plan replaces the Change in Control Special Severance Agreements (the "Severance Agreements") previously entered into with certain of FirstEnergy's NEOs, including Mr. Alexander, Mr. Clark, Mr. Leidich and Ms. Vespoli. The CIC Severance Plan is effective as of January 1, 2011, but NEOs party to a Severance Agreement will enter the plan upon non-renewal of the Severance Agreements as of January 1, 2012. The CIC Severance Plan has an initial three year irrevocable term that will automatically renew each year for an additional year. During the three year initial term, and for the 24 month period following a change in control, the CIC Severance Plan may not be amended, modified or terminated.
 
     The CIC Severance Plan contains terms substantially similar to those under the Severance Agreements, subject to the changes in the definition of "change in control" discussed above. Under the CIC Severance Plan, the NEOs are entitled to severance benefits triggered only if during the 24 month period following a Change in Control a NEO incurs an involuntarily Termination of Employment for any reason other than for Cause or a voluntary Termination of Employment for Good Reason within 30 days following an event that constitutes Good Reason (as defined in the CIC Severance Plan). Severance benefits will not be payable if a NEO dies or is terminated for Cause or due to Disability (as defined in the CIC Severance Plan). The severance benefits to the NEOs consist of a lump sum cash payment equal to the NEO's base salary through the date of the NEO's termination and up to three times the sum of his or her base salary and target annual short-term incentive amount. Upon termination, the NEO will be entitled to receive his target bonus under the 2007 Incentive Plan (or any successor plan) and the NEO will be credited with three additional years of age and service pursuant to the FirstEnergy Corp. Executive Deferred Compensation Plan and the FirstEnergy Corp. Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan and will also be entitled to up to three years of continuation of coverage under FirstEnergy-group health and life insurance plans. The CIC Severance Plan also contains a non-competition provision that precludes, among other things, direct or indirect competition with FirstEnergy and the solicitation of FirstEnergy's customers or employees for a period of 24 months following the date of the NEO's termination of employment.
Amendment to Employment Agreement of Gary R. Leidich
     On February 25, 2011, the employment agreement, dated February 26, 2008 (the "Initial Leidich Agreement"), as amended on January 29, 2010 and modified May 17, 2010 (the "Amended Leidich Agreement," and collectively with the Initial Leidich Agreement, the "Leidich Agreement"), between FirstEnergy Service Company and Gary R. Leidich, Executive Vice President of FirstEnergy, was amended by mutual agreement to extend for an additional period through December 31, 2011. All other terms of the Leidich Agreement remain the same. The Initial Leidich Agreement was previously filed as Exhibit 10-4 (and listed as Exhibit 10-88 in the Exhibit List) to FirstEnergy's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007 and the Amended Leidich Agreement was previously filed as Exhibit 10-39 to FirstEnergy's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009.
Item 5.03. Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year.
     In connection with the Merger Agreement and as previously approved by FirstEnergy shareholders, on February 25, 2011 FirstEnergy filed a Certificate of Amendment to its Amended Articles of Incorporation to increase the number of shares of authorized common stock from 375,000,000 to 490,000,000. This amendment reflects changes contemplated or necessitated by the Merger Agreement which are described in FirstEnergy's Registration Statement on Form S-4, as amended.
     The Amendment to the Amended Articles of Incorporation is attached hereto as Exhibit 3.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 8.01. Other Events
Announcement of Completion of Merger
     On February 25, 2011, FirstEnergy issued a press release announcing that FirstEnergy completed its merger with Allegheny Energy. The news release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
Incorporation by Reference to Form S-3 Shelf Registration Statement
     FirstEnergy intends to file a prospectus supplement to its Form S-3 shelf registration statement (File No. 333-153608) with the Securities and Exchange Commission relating to common stock to be issued to former employees and former non-employee directors of Allegheny Energy under the following plans that FirstEnergy has assumed in connection with the Merger: the Allegheny Energy, Inc. 2008 Long-Term Incentive Plan, the Allegheny Energy, Inc. 1998 Long-Term Incentive Plan, the Allegheny Energy, Inc. Non-Employee Director Stock Plan and the Allegheny Energy, Inc. Amended and Restated Revised Plan for Deferral of Compensation of Directors. Such stock plans are attached hereto as Exhibits 10.2, 10.3, 10.4 and 10.5, respectively, for the purpose of incorporating such plans by reference into such Form S-3 shelf registration statement. Additionally, the opinion of Robert P. Reffner, Vice President, Legal, of FirstEnergy's subsidiary FirstEnergy Service Company, with respect to certain legal matters related to the issuance of FirstEnergy common stock is filed hereto as Exhibit 5.1.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(a) Financial Statements of Businesses Acquired.
 
     FirstEnergy intends to file the financial statements of Allegheny Energy required by Item 9.01(a) as part of an amendment to this Current Report on Form 8-K not later than 71 calendar days after the date this Current Report is required to be filed.
(b) Pro Forma Financial Information.
     FirstEnergy intends to file the pro forma financial information required by Item 9.01(b) as part of an amendment to this Current Report on Form 8-K not later than 71 calendar days after the date this Current Report is required to be filed.
(d) Exhibits.
 
: This Form 8-K includes forward-looking statements based on information currently available to management. Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. These statements include declarations regarding management's intents, beliefs and current expectations. These statements typically contain, but are not limited to, the terms "anticipate," "potential," "expect," "believe," "estimate" and similar words. Forward-looking statements involve estimates, assumptions, known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Actual results may differ materially due to the speed and nature of increased competition in the electric utility industry, the impact of the regulatory process on the pending matters in the various states in which we do business (including, but not limited to, proceedings related to rates and matters with respect to the Trans-Allegheny Interstate Line and Potomac-Appalachian Transmission Highline projects), business and regulatory impacts from American Transmission Systems, Incorporated's realignment into PJM Interconnection, L.L.C., economic or weather conditions affecting future sales and margins, changes in markets for energy services, changing energy and commodity market prices and availability, financial derivative reforms that could increase our liquidity needs and collateral costs, replacement power costs being higher than anticipated or inadequately hedged, the continued ability of FirstEnergy's regulated utilities to collect transition and other costs, operation and maintenance costs being higher than anticipated, other legislative and regulatory changes, and revised environmental requirements, including possible greenhouse gas emission and coal combustion residual regulations, the potential impacts of any laws, rules or regulations that ultimately replace the Clean Air Interstate Rules, the uncertainty of the timing and amounts of the capital expenditures needed to complete, among other things, the Trans-Allegheny Interstate Line and Potomac-Appalachian Transmission Highline projects, the uncertainty of the timing and amounts of the capital expenditures needed to resolve any New Source Review litigation or other potential similar regulatory initiatives or rulemakings (including that such expenditures could result in our decision to shut down or idle certain generating units), adverse regulatory or legal decisions and outcomes (including, but not limited to, the revocation of necessary licenses or operating permits and oversight by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission), adverse legal decisions and outcomes related to Metropolitan Edison Company's and Pennsylvania Electric Company's transmission service charge appeal at the Commonwealth Court of Pennsylvania, any impact resulting from the receipt by Signal Peak of the Department of Labor's notice of a potential pattern of violations at Bull Mountain Mine No. 1, the continuing availability of generating units and their ability to operate at or near full capacity, the ability to comply with applicable state and federal reliability standards and energy efficiency mandates, changes in customers' demand for power, including but not limited to, changes resulting from the implementation of state and federal energy efficiency mandates, the ability to accomplish or realize anticipated benefits from strategic goals (including employee workforce initiatives), the ability to improve electric commodity margins and the impact of, among other factors, the increased cost of coal and coal transportation on such margins and the ability to experience growth in the distribution business, the changing market conditions that could affect the value of assets held in FirstEnergy's nuclear decommissioning trusts, pension trusts and other trust funds, and cause FirstEnergy to make additional contributions sooner, or in amounts that are larger than currently anticipated, the ability to access the public securities and other capital and credit markets in accordance with FirstEnergy's financing plan and the cost of such capital, changes in general economic conditions affecting the company, the state of the capital and credit markets affecting the company, interest rates and any actions taken by credit rating agencies that could negatively affect FirstEnergy's access to financing or its costs and increase its requirements to post additional collateral to support outstanding commodity positions, letters of credit and other financial guarantees, the continuing uncertainty of the national and regional economy and its impact on the company's major industrial and commercial customers, issues concerning the soundness of financial institutions and counterparties with which FirstEnergy does business, issues arising from the recently completed merger of FirstEnergy and Allegheny Energy, Inc. and the ongoing coordination of their combined operations, including FirstEnergy's ability to maintain relationships with customers, employees or suppliers as well as the ability to successfully integrate the businesses and realize cost savings and any other synergies and the risk that the credit ratings of the combined company or its subsidiaries may be different from what the companies expect and the risks and other factors discussed from time to time in FirstEnergy's Securities and Exchange Commission filings, and other similar factors. Dividends declared from time to time on FirstEnergy's common stock during any annual period may in aggregate vary from the indicated amount due to circumstances considered by FirstEnergy's Board of Directors at the time of the actual declarations. The foregoing review of factors should not be construed as exhaustive. New factors emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for management to predict all such factors, nor assess the impact of any such factor on FirstEnergy's business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. The Registrant expressly disclaims any current intention to update any forward-looking statements contained herein as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
Forward-Looking Statements
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto authorized.
February 25, 2011
 

Exhibit 3.1
          Article IV, Section A of the Amended Articles of Incorporation of FirstEnergy Corp. (the "Corporation") shall be deleted in its entirety and replaced as follows:
          "A. Authorized Capital Stock. The Corporation is authorized to issue 495 million shares of capital stock, consisting of five (5) million shares of preferred stock, with par value of $100 per share ("Preferred Stock"), and 490 million shares of common stock, with par value of $0.10 per share ("Common Stock")."

Exhibit 5.1
FirstEnergy Corp. 76 South Main Street Akron, Ohio 44308-1890
     Ladies and Gentlemen:
     I am Vice President, Legal of FirstEnergy Service Company, and have acted as counsel to its affiliate, FirstEnergy Corp., an Ohio corporation (the ""), in connection with the registration under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, of 75,844 shares of common stock, par value $0.10 per share, of the Company (the ""), to be offered pursuant to the prospectus supplement dated February 25, 2011 (the "") pursuant to Rule 424(b)(5), issuable by the Company pursuant to terms of the Allegheny Energy, Inc. 2008 Long-Term Incentive Plan, the Allegheny Energy, Inc. 1998 Long-Term Incentive Plan, the Allegheny Energy, Inc. Non-Employee Director Stock Plan and the Allegheny Energy, Inc. Amended and Restated Revised Plan for Deferral of Compensation of Directors (collectively, the "") and upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in the Company's Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-153608) (the "") relating thereto filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on September 22, 2008. The Allegheny Energy Plans are being assumed by the Company pursuant to the terms of the Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of February 10, 2010 and amended as of June 4, 2010 by and among the Company, Element Merger Sub and Allegheny Energy, Inc.
Company
Shares
Supplement
Allegheny Energy Plans
Registration Statement
     In connection with this opinion, I or persons under my supervision or control have reviewed originals or copies, certified or otherwise identified to my satisfaction, of the Registration Statement, including the Supplement. In addition, I or persons under my supervision or control have reviewed originals, or copies certified or otherwise identified to my satisfaction, of such other instruments, certificates, records and documents and such certificates or comparable documents of public officials and of officers and representatives of the Company, and have reviewed such questions of law, as I have deemed necessary or appropriate for purposes of this opinion. In such review, I have assumed the genuineness of all signatures, the authenticity of all documents submitted to me as originals, the conformity to the original documents of all documents submitted as copies and the authenticity of the originals of such latter documents.
     Based upon the foregoing, and subject to the qualifications and limitations stated herein, I am of the opinion that the Shares, when issued and delivered in accordance with the terms of the
 
FirstEnergy Corp. February 25, 2011 Page 2
Allegheny Energy Plans and any applicable agreements under the Allegheny Energy Plans, will be duly authorized, validly issued, fully paid and non-assessable.
     In connection with this opinion, I have assumed that the authorization of the Shares will not be modified or rescinded by the Board of Directors of the Company and there will not have occurred any change in law affecting the validity or enforceability of such Shares prior to their issuance.
     This letter is limited to the matters expressly stated herein and no opinion is to be inferred or implied beyond the opinion expressly set forth herein. I undertake no, and hereby disclaim any, obligation to make any inquiry after the date hereof or to advise you of any changes in any matter set forth herein, whether based on a change in the law, a change in any fact relating to the Company or any other person or any other circumstance.
     I consent to the filing of this letter as an exhibit to the Registration Statement and I further consent to the use of my name under the caption "Interests of Named Experts and Counsel" in the Supplement. In giving such consent, I do not thereby admit that I am in the category of persons whose consent is required under Section 7 of the Securities Act.
     I am a member of the bar of the State of Ohio, and this opinion is limited to the laws of the State of Ohio.

Exhibit 10.2
     Sec. 1.01 . The purpose of the Allegheny Energy, Inc. 1998 Long-Term Incentive Plan (as the same may be amended from time to time, the "Plan") is to assist Allegheny Energy, Inc., a Maryland corporation (the "Company"), and its Subsidiaries (as defined below) in attracting and retaining highly competent key employees and directors and to act as an incentive in motivating selected key employees and directors of the Company and its Subsidiaries (as defined below) to achieve long-term corporate objectives.
Purpose
     Sec. 1.02 . The Plan has been approved by the Board of Directors of the Company (the "Board") to be effective as of the date of approval of the Plan by the shareholders of the Company (the "Effective Date"). The Plan shall remain in effect until the tenth anniversary of the Effective Date; provided, however, that the provisions of Articles VII and VIII with respect to performance-based awards to "covered employees" under Section 162(m) of the Code (as defined below) shall expire as of the fifth anniversary of the Effective Date. This Plan is hereby amended and restated effective as of January 1, 2008 to update it for changes in applicable law and to make certain other clarifying changes.
Adoption and Term
     For the purposes of this Plan, capitalized terms shall have the following meanings:
     Sec. 2.01 "Acquiring Corporation" shall have the meaning given to such term in Section 9.08(b).
     Sec. 2.02 "Award" means any grant to a Participant of one or a combination of Non-Qualified Stock Options or Incentive Stock Options described in Article VI, Restricted Shares described in Article VII and Performance Awards described in Article VIII.
     Sec. 2.03 "Award Agreement" means a written agreement between the Company and a Participant or a written notice from the Company to a Participant specifically setting forth the terms and conditions of an Award granted under the Plan.
     Sec. 2.04 "Award Period" means, with respect to an Award, the period of time set forth in the Award Agreement during which specified target performance goals must be achieved or other conditions set forth in the Award Agreement must be satisfied.
     Sec. 2.05 "Beneficiary" means an individual, trust or estate who or which, by a written designation of the Participant filed with the Company or by operation of law, succeeds to the rights and obligations of the Participant under the Plan and an Award Agreement upon the Participant's death.
 
     Sec. 2.06 "Board" shall have the meaning given to such term in Section 1.02.
     Sec. 2.07 "Change in Control" shall be deemed to have occurred at such time as (a) any individual, entity or group (within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) or 14(d)(2) of the Exchange Act) is or becomes the "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of 25% or more of the combined voting power of the Company Voting Securities; or (b) during any period of not more than two years, individuals who constitute the Board as of the beginning of the period and any new director (other than a director designated by a person who has entered into an agreement with the Company to effect a transaction described in clause (a) or (c) of this sentence) whose election by the Board or nomination for election by the Company's shareholders was approved by a vote of at least two-thirds (2/3) of the directors then still in office who either were directors at such time or whose election or nomination for election was previously so approved, cease for any reason to constitute a majority thereof; or (c) the shareholders of the Company approve a merger or consolidation of the Company with any other corporation, other than a merger or consolidation which would result in the Company Voting Securities outstanding immediately prior thereto continuing to represent (either by remaining outstanding or by being converted into voting securities of the surviving entity) at least 50% of the combined voting power of the Company Voting Securities or the voting securities of such surviving entity outstanding immediately after such merger or consolidation, or the shareholders of the Company approve a plan of complete liquidation of the Company or any agreement for the sale or disposition by the Company of all or substantially all of the Company's assets.
     Sec. 2.08 "Code" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. References to a section of the Code include that section and any comparable section or sections of any future legislation that amends, supplements or supersedes said section.
     Sec. 2.09 "Committee" means the committee established in accordance with Section 3.01.
     Sec. 2.10 "Company" shall have the meaning given to such term in Section 1.01.
     Sec. 2.11 "Common Stock" means Common Stock of the Company.
     Sec. 2.12 "Company Voting Securities" means the combined voting power of all outstanding securities of the Company entitled to vote generally in the election of directors of the Company.
     Sec. 2.13 "Date of Grant" means the date as of which the Committee grants an Award. If the Committee contemplates an immediate grant to a Participant, the Date of Grant shall be the date of the Committee's action. If the Committee contemplates a date on which the grant is to be made other than the date of the Committee's action, the Date of Grant shall be the date so contemplated and set forth in or determinable from the records of action of the Committee; provided, however, that the Date of Grant shall not precede the date of the Committee's action.
     Sec. 2.14 "Dividend Equivalent Account" shall have the meaning given to such term in Section 6.03(a).
     Sec. 2.15 "Effective Date" shall have the meaning given to such term in Section 1.02.
 
     Sec. 2.16 "Exchange Act" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
     Sec. 2.17 "Exercise Price" shall have the meaning given to such term in Section 6.01(b).
     Sec. 2.18 "Fair Market Value" means, as of any applicable date, the closing price per share of the Common Stock as quoted in the NYSE-Composite Transactions listing in The Wall Street Journal (or such other reliable publication as the Committee, in its discretion, may determine to rely upon) for the date as of which Fair Market Value is to be determined. If there are no sales on such date, then Fair Market Value shall be the closing price per share of the Common Stock as so quoted on the nearest date before the date as of which Fair Market Value is to be determined on which there are sales. If the Common Stock is not listed on the New York Stock Exchange on the date as of which Fair Market Value is to be determined, the Committee shall in good faith determine the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock on such date. Fair Market Value shall be determined without regard to any restriction other than a restriction which, by its terms, will never lapse. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the case of Options granted in connection with the assumption by the Company of stock options of acquired companies, as described in Section 9.08(c) the Committee may determine that the term "Fair Market Value" shall have the same meaning as is given to such term under the provisions of such assumed stock option. All determinations regarding the Fair Market Value of the Company's Common Stock shall be consistent with the requirements of Section 409A of the Code and its corresponding regulations and related guidance.
     Sec. 2.19 "Incentive Stock Option" means a stock option within the meaning of Section 422 of the Code.
     Sec. 2.20 "Merger" means any merger, reorganization, consolidation, share exchange, transfer of assets or other transaction having similar effect involving the Company.
     Sec. 2.21 "Non-Qualified Stock Option" means a stock option which is not an Incentive Stock Option.
     Sec. 2.22 "Options" means all Non-Qualified Stock Options and Incentive Stock Options granted at any time under the Plan.
     Sec. 2.23 "Original Option" shall have the meaning given to such term in Section 6.04.
     Sec. 2.24 "Participant" means a person designated to receive an Award under the Plan in accordance with Section 5.01.
     Sec. 2.25 "Performance Awards" means Awards granted in accordance with Article VIII.
     Sec. 2.26 "Plan" shall have the meaning given to such term in Section 1.01.
     Sec. 2.27 "Reload Option" shall have the meaning given to such term in Section 6.04.
 
     Sec. 2.28 "Restricted Shares" means Common Stock subject to restrictions imposed in connection with Awards granted under Article VII.
     Sec. 2.29 "Retirement" means early or normal retirement under a pension plan or arrangement of the Company or one of its Subsidiaries in which the Participant participates.
     Sec. 2.30 "Subsidiary" means a subsidiary of the Company within the meaning of Section 424(f) of the Code.
     Sec. 2.31 "Termination of Employment" means the voluntary or involuntary termination of a Participant's employment with the Company or a Subsidiary for any reason, including death, disability, retirement or as the result of the divestiture of the Participant's employer or any similar transaction in which the Participant's employer ceases to be the Company or one of its Subsidiaries. A leave of absence approved in accordance with Company policy shall not be deemed a Termination of Employment. Whether entering military or other government service shall constitute Termination of Employment, or whether a Termination of Employment shall occur as a result of disability, shall be determined in each case by the Committee in its sole discretion. In the case of a director who is not an employee of the Company or a Subsidiary, Termination of Employment shall mean voluntary or involuntary cessation of Board service for any reason. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Termination of Employment for purposes of determining whether an Award that is "deferred compensation" and subject to Section 409A of the Code is payable from the Plan means a "separation from service" as determined under Section 409A of the Code and its corresponding regulations and related guidance.
     Sec. 3.01 . The Plan shall be administered by a committee of the Board (the "Committee") comprised of at least two directors of the Company. The Committee shall have exclusive and final authority in each determination, interpretation or other action affecting the Plan and its Participants. The Committee shall have the sole discretionary authority to interpret the Plan, to establish and modify administrative rules for the Plan, to impose such conditions and restrictions on Awards as it determines appropriate, and to take such steps in connection with the Plan and Awards granted hereunder as it may deem necessary or advisable. The Committee may, subject to compliance with applicable legal requirements, delegate to any designated executive officer of the Company the power to determine the employees (other than himself or herself or any employee to whom such designated executive officer reports) to receive Awards under the Plan and the types and amounts of such Awards, subject in each case to the terms and conditions of the Plan. In addition, the Board may exercise any of the authority conferred upon the Committee hereunder. In the event of any such delegation of authority or exercise of authority by the Board, references in the Plan to the Committee shall be deemed to refer to the delegate of the Committee or the Board, as the case may be.
Committee
 
     Sec. 4.01 . The total number of shares initially authorized to be issued under the Plan shall be 10,000,000 shares of Common Stock. The number of shares available for issuance under the Plan shall be subject to adjustment in accordance with Section 9.08. The shares to be offered under the Plan shall be authorized and unissued shares of Common Stock, or issued shares of Common Stock which will have been reacquired by the Company.
Number of Shares Issuable
     Sec. 4.02 . Shares of Common Stock covered by any unexercised portions of terminated Options (including canceled Options) granted under Article VI, shares of Common Stock forfeited as provided in Section 7.02(a) and shares of Common Stock subject to any Award that are otherwise surrendered by a Participant or terminated may be subject to new Awards under the Plan. If any shares of Common Stock are withheld from those otherwise issuable or are tendered to the Company, by attestation or otherwise, in connection with the exercise of an Option, only the net number of shares of Common Stock issued as a result of such exercise shall be deemed delivered for purposes of determining the maximum number of shares available for delivery under the Plan.
Shares Subject to Terminated Awards
     Sec. 5.01 . Participants in the Plan shall be such key employees and directors of the Company and its Subsidiaries as the Committee, in its sole discretion, may designate from time to time. The Committee's designation of a Participant in any year shall not require the Committee to designate such person to receive Awards in any other year. The designation of a Participant to receive an Award under one portion of the Plan does not require the Committee to include such Participant under other portions of the Plan. The Committee shall consider such factors as it deems pertinent in selecting Participants and in determining the types and amounts of their respective Awards. Subject to adjustment in accordance with Section 9.08, during any calendar year no Participant shall be granted Awards in respect of more than 600,000 shares of Common Stock (whether through grants of Options or other Awards of Common Stock or rights with respect thereto); provided, however, that if it is the Committee's intention as of the Date of Grant of an Award, as evidenced by the applicable Award Agreement, that such Award shall be earned by the Participant over a period of more than one calendar year, then for purposes of applying the foregoing per calendar year share limitation, the shares of Common Stock subject to such Award shall be allocated to the first calendar year in which such shares may be earned (determined without regard to possible vesting as a result of a Change in Control or pursuant to any provision of this Plan authorizing the Committee to accelerate the vesting of an Award).
Eligible Participants
     Sec. 6.01 .
Option Awards
          (a) . The Committee may grant, to such Participants as the Committee may select, Options entitling the Participants to purchase shares of Common Stock from the Company in such numbers, at such prices, and on such terms and subject to such conditions, not inconsistent with the terms of the Plan, as may be established by the Committee. The terms of any Option granted under the Plan shall be set forth in an Award Agreement.
Grant of Options
 
          (b) . The exercise price of each share of Common Stock which may be purchased upon exercise of any Option granted under the Plan (the "Exercise Price") shall be determined by the Committee; provided, however, that, except in the case of any substituted Options described in Section 9.08(c), the Exercise Price shall in all cases be equal to or greater than the Fair Market Value on the Date of Grant.
Exercise Price of Options
          (c) . Except as otherwise expressly provided in the Plan, the Committee may designate, at the time of the grant of an Option, such Option as an Incentive Stock Option or a Non-Qualified Stock Option; provided, however, that an Option may be designated as an Incentive Stock Option only if the applicable Participant is an employee of the Company or a Subsidiary on the Date of Grant.
Designation of Options
          (d) . No Participant may be granted Incentive Stock Options under the Plan (or any other plans of the Company and its Subsidiaries) that would result in Incentive Stock Options to purchase shares of Common Stock with an aggregate Fair Market Value (measured on the Date of Grant) of more than $100,000 first becoming exercisable by such Participant in any one calendar year. Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan to the contrary, no Incentive Stock Option shall be granted to any person who, at the time the Option is granted, owns stock (including stock owned by application of the constructive ownership rules in Section 424(d) of the Code) possessing more than 10% of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock of the Company or any Subsidiary, unless at the time the Incentive Stock Option is granted the Exercise Price is at least 110% of the Fair Market Value on the Date of Grant of the Common Stock subject to the Incentive Stock Option and the Incentive Stock Option by its terms is not exercisable for more than five (5) years from the Date of Grant.
Special Incentive Stock Option Rules
          (e) . A Participant or a transferee of an Option pursuant to Section 9.04 shall have no rights as a shareholder with respect to the shares of Common Stock covered by an Option until that Participant or transferee shall have become the holder of record of any such shares, and, except to the extent that Dividend Equivalent Accounts are granted in accordance with Section 6.03, no adjustment shall be made with respect to any such shares of Common Stock for dividends in cash or other property or distributions of other rights on the Common Stock for which the record date is prior to the date on which that Participant or transferee shall have become the holder of record of any shares covered by such Option; provided, however, that Participants are entitled to the adjustments set forth in section 9.08.
Rights as a Shareholder
     Sec. 6.02 .
Terms of Stock Options
          (a) . An Award Agreement with respect to Options may contain such waiting periods, exercise dates and restrictions on exercise (including, but not limited to, periodic installments) as may be determined by the Committee at the time of grant.
Conditions on Exercise
          (b) . Options shall terminate after the first to occur of the following events:
Duration of Options
 
          (c) . The Committee, in its sole discretion, shall have the right (but shall not in any case be obligated), exercisable at any time after the Date of Grant, to permit the exercise of any Option prior to the time such Option would otherwise become exercisable under the terms of the related Award Agreement.
Acceleration of Exercise Time
          (d) . In addition to the extensions permitted under Section 6.02(e) in the event of Termination of Employment, the Committee, in its sole discretion, shall have the right (but shall not in any case be obligated), exercisable on or at any time after the Date of Grant, to permit the exercise of any Option after its expiration date described in Section 6.02(e), subject, however, to the limitations described in Sections 6.02(b)(i) and (iii).
Extension of Exercise Time
          (e) .
Exercise of Options Upon Termination of Employment
 
     Sec. 6.03 . The Committee shall have the discretion, upon the grant of an Option or thereafter, to establish a dividend equivalent account ("Dividend Equivalent Account") with respect to the Option, and applicable Option Award Agreement or an amendment thereto shall confirm such establishment. If a Dividend Equivalent Account is established, the following terms apply:
Dividend Equivalent Accounts
          (a) . Subject to such conditions, limitations and restrictions as shall be established by the Committee, from the Date of Grant of the Option or, if later, the date of establishment of the Dividend Equivalent Account, to the earlier of (i) the date of payment of such Dividend Equivalent Account or (ii) the date of cancellation, termination or expiration of the Option, the Dividend Equivalent Account shall be credited as of the record date of
Crediting of Dividends
 
each cash dividend on the Common Stock with an amount equal to the cash dividends which would be paid with respect to the Common Stock then covered by the Option if the Option had been exercised and such Common Stock had been held of record on such record date. The Participant or other holder of such Option shall be entitled to receive from the Company in cash the balance credited to the Dividend Equivalent Account at such time, or from time to time, and subject to such terms and conditions as shall be determined by the Committee and set forth in the applicable Option Award Agreement or an amendment thereto.
          (b) . To the extent that an Option is cancelled, terminates or expires without being exercised, the Dividend Equivalent Account with respect to the Option shall be eliminated, and no payment with respect to the Dividend Equivalent Account shall be made by the Company. Dividend Equivalent Accounts shall be established and maintained only on the books and records of the Plan and/or the Company and no assets or funds of the Company or of the Plan shall be set aside, placed in trust, removed from the claims of the Company's general creditors, or otherwise made available until such amounts are actually payable as provided hereunder.
Other Dividend Equivalent Terms
     Sec. 6.04 . The Committee shall have the authority to specify, at or after the time of grant of an Option, that, subject to the availability of shares of Common Stock under the Plan at the time of such grant, a Participant shall be granted a reload option ("Reload Option") in the event(i) such Participant exercises all or a part of an Option (an "Original Option") by surrendering previously acquired shares of Common Stock in full or partial payment of the Exercise Price under such Original Option, and/or (ii) a Participant's withholding tax obligation with respect to the exercise of an Original Option is satisfied in whole or in part by the delivery of previously acquired shares of Common Stock by the Participant to the Company or the withholding of shares of Common Stock from the shares otherwise issuable to the Participant upon the exercise of the Original Option. Each such Reload Option shall cover a number of shares of Common Stock equal to the number of shares of Common Stock surrendered in payment of the Exercise Price under such Original Option and/or surrendered or withheld to pay withholding taxes with respect to such Original Option. Each such Reload Option shall have an Exercise Price per share of Common Stock equal to the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock on the date of exercise of the Original Option in respect of which the Reload Option was granted and shall expire on the stated expiration date of the Original Option. A Reload Option shall be exercisable at any time and from time to time from and after the Date of Grant of such Reload Option, subject to such restrictions on exercisability as may be imposed in the discretion of the Committee. Any Reload Option may provide for the grant, when exercised, of subsequent Reload Options to the extent and upon such terms and conditions, consistent with this Section 6.04, as the Committee in its sole discretion shall specify at or after the time of grant of such Reload Option. A Reload Option shall contain such other terms and conditions, which may include a restriction on the transferability of the shares of Common Stock received upon exercise of the Reload Option, as the Committee in its sole discretion shall deem desirable and which may be set forth in rules or guidelines adopted by the Committee or in the Award Agreements evidencing the Reload Options.
Reload Options
     Sec. 6.05 . Each Option granted under the Plan shall be exercised by written notice to the Company which must be received by the officer or employee of the Company designated in the Award Agreement at or before the close of business on the
Option Exercise Procedures
 
expiration date of the Award. The Exercise Price of shares purchased upon exercise of an Option granted under the Plan shall be paid in full in cash by the Participant pursuant to the Award Agreement; provided, however, that in lieu of such cash a Participant may (if authorized by the Committee) pay the Exercise Price in whole or in part by delivering (actually or by attestation) to the Company shares of the Common Stock having a Fair Market Value on the date of exercise of the Option equal to the Exercise Price for the shares being purchased; except that (i) any portion of the Exercise Price representing a fraction of a share shall in any event be paid in cash and (ii) no shares of the Common Stock which have been held for less than six months may be delivered in payment of the Exercise Price of an Option. Payment may also be made, in the discretion of the Committee, by the delivery (including, without limitation, by fax) to the Company or its designated agent of an executed irrevocable option exercise form together with irrevocable instructions to a broker-dealer to sell or margin a sufficient portion of the shares and deliver the sale or margin loan proceeds directly to the Company to pay for the Exercise Price. The date of exercise of an Option shall be determined under procedures established by the Committee, and as of the date of exercise the person exercising the Option shall, as between the Company and such person, be considered for all purposes to be the owner of the shares of Common Stock with respect to which the Option has been exercised. Any part of the Exercise Price paid in cash upon the exercise of any Option shall be added to the general funds of the Company and may be used for any proper corporate purpose. Unless the Committee shall otherwise determine, any shares of Common Stock transferred to the Company as payment of all or part of the Exercise Price upon the exercise of any Option shall be held as unauthorized but unissued shares.
     Sec. 6.06 . Unless otherwise provided by the Committee in the applicable Award Agreement, in the event of a Change in Control, all Options outstanding on the date of such Change in Control shall become immediately and fully exercisable. The provisions of this Section 6.06 shall not be applicable to any Options granted to a Participant if any Change in Control results from such Participant's beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act) of Common Stock or Company Voting Securities.
Change in Control
     Sec. 7.01 . The Committee may grant to any Participant an Award of such number of shares of Common Stock on such terms, conditions and restrictions, whether based on performance standards, periods of service, retention by the Participant of ownership of specified shares of Common Stock or other criteria, as the Committee shall establish. With respect to performance-based Awards of Restricted Shares intended to qualify for deductibility under the "performance-based" compensation exception contained in Section 162(m) of the Code, performance targets will include specified levels of one or more of the following (in absolute terms or relative to one or more other companies or indices): operating income, return on investment, return on shareholders' equity, stock price appreciation, earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, earnings per share and/or growth in earnings per share. The terms of any Restricted Share Award granted under this Plan shall be set forth in an Award Agreement which shall contain provisions determined by the Committee and not inconsistent with this Plan.
Restricted Share Awards
          (a) . As soon as practicable after the Date of Grant of a Restricted Share Award by the Committee, the Company shall cause to be transferred on the
Issuance of Restricted Shares
 
books of the Company or its agent, shares of Common Stock, registered on behalf of the Participant, evidencing the Restricted Shares covered by the Award, subject to forfeiture to the Company as of the Date of Grant if an Award Agreement with respect to the Restricted Shares covered by the Award is not duly executed by the Participant and timely returned to the Company. All shares of Common Stock covered by Awards under this Article VII shall be subject to the restrictions, terms and conditions contained in the Plan and the applicable Award Agreements entered into by the appropriate Participants. Until the lapse or release of all restrictions applicable to an Award of Restricted Shares the share certificates representing such Restricted Shares may be held in custody by the Company, its designee, or, if the certificates bear a restrictive legend, by the Participant. Upon the lapse or release of all restrictions with respect to an Award as described in Section 7.01(d), one or more share certificates, registered in the name of the Participant, for an appropriate number of shares as provided in Section 7.01(d), free of any restrictions set forth in the Plan and the related Award Agreement shall be delivered to the Participant.
          (b) . Beginning on the Date of Grant of a Restricted Share Award and subject to execution of the related Award Agreement as provided in Section 7.01(a), and except as otherwise provided in such Award Agreement, the Participant shall become a shareholder of the Company with respect to all shares subject to the Award Agreement and shall have all of the rights of a shareholder, including, but not limited to, the right to vote such shares and the right to receive dividends; provided, however, that any shares of Common Stock distributed as a dividend or otherwise with respect to any Restricted Shares as to which the restrictions have not yet lapsed, shall be subject to the same restrictions as such Restricted Shares and held or restricted as provided in Section 7.01(a).
Shareholder Rights
          (c) . None of the Restricted Shares may be assigned or transferred (other than by will or the laws of descent and distribution or to an inter vivos trust with respect to which the Participant is treated as the owner under Sections 671 through 677 of the Code), pledged or sold prior to the lapse of the restrictions applicable thereto.
Restriction on Transferability
          (d) . Upon expiration or earlier termination of the forfeiture period without a forfeiture and the satisfaction of or release from any other conditions prescribed by the Committee, or at such earlier time as provided under the provisions of Section 7.03, the restrictions applicable to the Restricted Shares shall lapse. As promptly as administratively feasible thereafter, subject to the requirements of Section 9.05, the Company shall deliver to the Participant or, in case of the Participant's death, to the Participant's Beneficiary, one or more share certificates for the appropriate number of shares of Common Stock, free of all such restrictions, except for any restrictions that may be imposed by law.
Delivery of Shares Upon Vesting
     Sec. 7.02 .
Terms of Restricted Shares
          (a) . Subject to Sections 7.02(b) and 7.03, Restricted Shares shall be forfeited and returned to the Company and all rights of the Participant with respect to such Restricted Shares shall terminate unless the Participant continues in the service of the Company or a Subsidiary until the expiration of the forfeiture period for such Restricted Shares and satisfies any and all other conditions set forth in the Award Agreement. The Committee shall determine the forfeiture period (which may, but need not, lapse in installments) and any other terms and conditions applicable with respect to any Restricted Share Award.
Forfeiture of Restricted Shares
 
          (b) . Notwithstanding anything contained in this Article VII to the contrary, the Committee may, in its sole discretion, waive the forfeiture period and any other conditions set forth in any Award Agreement under appropriate circumstances (including the death, disability or Retirement of the Participant or a material change in circumstances arising after the date of an Award) and subject to such terms and conditions (including forfeiture of a proportionate number of the Restricted Shares) as the Committee shall deem appropriate.
Waiver of Forfeiture Period
     Sec. 7.03 . Unless otherwise provided by the Committee in the applicable Award Agreement, in the event of a Change in Control, all restrictions applicable to the Restricted Share Award shall terminate fully and the Participant shall immediately have the right to the delivery of share certificates for such shares in accordance with Section 7.01(d).
Change in Control
     Sec. 8.01 .
Performance Awards
          (a) . The Committee may grant Performance Awards to Participants. A Performance Award shall consist of the right to receive a payment (measured by the Fair Market Value of a specified number of shares of Common Stock, increases in such Fair Market Value during the Award Period and/or a fixed cash amount) contingent upon the extent to which certain predetermined performance targets have been met during an Award Period. Performance Awards may be made in conjunction with, or in addition to, Restricted Share Awards made under Article VII. The Award Period shall be two or more fiscal or calendar years or other annual periods as determined by the Committee. The Committee, in its discretion and under such terms as it deems appropriate, may permit newly eligible Participants, such as those who are promoted or newly hired, to receive Performance Awards after an Award Period has commenced.
Award Periods and Determinations of Awards
          (b) . The performance targets may include such goals related to the performance of the Company and/or the performance of a Participant as may be established by the Committee in its discretion. In the case of Performance Awards intended to qualify for deductibility under the "performance-based" compensation exception contained in Section 162(m) of the Code, the targets will include specified levels of one or more of the following (in absolute terms or relative to one or more other companies or indices): operating income, return on investment, return on shareholders' equity, stock price appreciation, earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, earnings per share and/or growth in earnings per share. The performance targets established by the Committee may vary for different Award Periods and need not be the same for each Participant receiving a Performance Award in an Award Period. Except to the extent inconsistent with the performance-based compensation exception under Section 162(m) of the Code, in the case of Performance Awards granted to Participants to whom such section is applicable, the Committee, in its discretion, but only under extraordinary circumstances as determined by the Committee, may change any prior determination of performance targets for any Award Period at any time prior to the final determination of the value of a related Performance Award when events or transactions occur to cause such performance targets to be an inappropriate measure of achievement.
Performance Targets
 
          (c) . The Committee, on or as soon as practicable after the Date of Grant, shall prescribe a formula to determine the percentage of the applicable Performance Award to be earned based upon the degree of attainment of performance targets.
Earning Performance Awards
          (d) . Payments of earned Performance Awards shall be made in cash, stock options or shares of Common Stock or a combination thereof, in the discretion of the Committee. The Committee, in its sole discretion, may provide such terms and conditions with respect to the payment of earned Performance Awards as it may deem desirable.
Payment of Earned Performance Awards
     Sec. 8.02 .
Terms of Performance Awards
          (a) . Unless otherwise provided below or in Section 8.03, in the case of a Participant's Termination of Employment prior to the end of an Award Period, the Participant will not have earned any Performance Awards for that Award Period.
Termination of Employment
          (b) . If a Participant's Termination of Employment is because of Retirement prior to the end of an Award Period, the Participant will not be paid any Performance Award, unless the Committee, in its sole and exclusive discretion, determines that an Award should be paid. In such a case, the Participant shall be entitled to receive a pro-rata portion of his or her Award as determined under subsection (d).
Retirement
          (c) . If a Participant's Termination of Employment is due to death or to disability (as determined in the sole and exclusive discretion of the Committee) prior to the end of an Award Period, the Participant or the Participant's personal representative shall be entitled to receive a pro-rata share of his or her Award as determined under subsection (d).
Death or Disability
          (d) . The amount of any payment to be made to a Participant whose employment is terminated by Retirement, death or disability (under the circumstances described in subsections (b) and (c)) will be the amount determined by multiplying (i) the amount of the Performance Award that would have been earned through the end of the Award Period had such employment not been terminated by (ii) a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of whole months such Participant was employed during the Award Period, and the Denominator of which is the total number of months of the Award Period. Any such payment made to a Participant whose employment is terminated prior to the end of an Award Period shall be made at the end of such Award Period, unless otherwise determined by the Committee in its sole discretion. Any partial payment previously made or credited to a deferred account for the benefit of a Participant in accordance with Section 8.01(d) of the Plan shall be subtracted from the amount otherwise determined as payable as provided in this Section 8.02(d).
Pro-Rata Payment
          (e) . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Article VIII, the Committee may, in its sole and exclusive discretion, determine to pay all or any portion of a Performance Award to a Participant who has terminated employment prior to the end of an Award Period under certain circumstances (including the death, disability or Retirement of the Participant or a material change in circumstances arising after the Date of Grant), subject to such terms and conditions as the Committee shall deem appropriate.
Other Events
 
     Sec. 8.03 . Unless otherwise provided by the Committee in the applicable Award Agreement, in the event of a Change in Control, all Performance Awards for all Award Periods shall immediately become fully payable to all Participants and shall be paid to Participants within thirty (30) days after such Change in Control.
Change in Control
     Sec. 9.01 . The terms of the Plan shall govern all Awards granted under the Plan, and in no event shall the Committee have the power to grant any Award under the Plan the terms of which are contrary to any of the provisions of the Plan. In the event any provision of any Award granted under the Plan shall conflict with any term in the Plan as constituted on the Date of Grant of such Award, the term in the Plan as constituted on the Date of Grant of such Award shall control. All Awards granted under the terms of the Plan and any related Award Agreement shall be structured to comply with requirements of Section 409A of the Code and its corresponding regulations and related guidance. Without limiting the foregoing, if and to the extent that any Award is deemed to be deferred compensation for purposes of Section 409A of the Code, the payment of such Award shall only be made upon the occurrence of an event that is a permissible payment event for purposes of Section 409A of the Code.
Plan Provisions Control Award Terms
     Sec. 9.02 . No person shall have any rights under any Award granted under the Plan unless and until the Company and the Participant to whom such Award shall have been granted shall have executed and delivered an Award Agreement or the Participant shall have received and acknowledged notice of the Award authorized by the Committee expressly granting the Award to such person and containing provisions setting forth the terms of the Award.
Award Agreement
     Sec. 9.03 . No Award granted under the Plan to a Participant may be modified (unless such modification does not materially decrease the value of that Award) after its Date of Grant except by express written agreement between the Company and such Participant, provided that any such change (a) may not be inconsistent with the terms of the Plan, and (b) shall be approved by the Committee.
Modification of Award After Grant
     Sec. 9.04 . Except as provided in Section 7.01(c) in the case of Restricted Shares, a Participant's rights and interest under the Plan may not be assigned or transferred other than by will or the laws of descent and distribution and, during the lifetime of a Participant, only the Participant personally (or the Participant's personal representative) may exercise rights under the Plan. The Participant's Beneficiary may exercise the Participant's rights to the extent they are exercisable under the Plan following the death of the Participant. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Committee may grant Non-Qualified Stock Options that are transferable, without payment of consideration, to immediate family members of the Participant, to trusts or partnerships for such family members, or to such other parties as the Committee may approve (was evidenced by the applicable Award Agreement or an amendment thereto), and the Committee may also amend outstanding Non-Qualified Stock Options to provide for such transferability.
Limitation on Transfer
     Sec. 9.05 . The Company shall be entitled, if the Committee deems it necessary or desirable, to withhold (or secure payment from the Participant in lieu of withholding)
Withholding Taxes
 
the amount of any withholding or other tax required by law to be withheld or paid by the Company with respect to any amount payable and/or shares issuable under such Participant's Award or with respect to any income recognized upon a disqualifying disposition of shares received pursuant to the exercise of an Incentive Stock Option, and the Company may defer payment of cash or issuance of shares upon exercise or vesting of an Award unless indemnified to its satisfaction against any liability for any such tax. The amount of such withholding or tax payment shall be determined by the Committee and shall be payable by the Participant at such time as the Committee determines. With the approval of the Committee, the Participant may elect to meet his or her withholding requirement (i) by having withheld from such Award at the appropriate time that number of shares of Common Stock, rounded up to the next whole share, the Fair Market Value of which is equal to the amount of withholding taxes due, (ii) by direct payment to the Company in cash of the minimum amount of any taxes required to be withheld with respect to such Award or (iii) by a combination of withholding such shares and paying cash.
     Sec. 9.06 . Any Award granted under the Plan may be surrendered to the Company for cancellation on such terms as the Committee and the Participant approve.
Surrender of Awards
     Sec. 9.07 .
Cancellation and Rescission of Awards
          (a) . Unless the Award Agreement specifies otherwise, the Committee may cancel, rescind, suspend, withhold or otherwise limit or restrict any unexpired, unpaid, or deferred Awards at any time if the Participant is not in compliance with all applicable provisions of the Award Agreement and the Plan, or if the Participant engages in any "Detrimental Activity." For purposes of this Section 9.07, "Detrimental Activity" shall include: (i) the rendering of services for any organization or engaging directly or indirectly in any business which is or becomes competitive with the Company, or which organization or business, or the rendering of services to such organization or business, is or becomes otherwise prejudicial to or in conflict with the interests of the Company; (ii) the disclosure to anyone outside the Company, or the use in other than the Company's business, without prior written authorization from the Company, of any confidential information or material relating to the business of the Company, acquired by the Participant either during or after employment with the Company; (iii) any attempt directly or indirectly to induce any employee of the Company to be employed or perform services elsewhere or any attempt directly or indirectly to solicit the trade or business of any current or prospective customer, supplier or partner of the Company; or (iv) any other conduct or act determined to be injurious, detrimental or prejudicial to any interest of the Company.
Detrimental Activities
          (b) . Upon exercise, payment or delivery pursuant to an Award, the Participant shall certify in a manner acceptable to the Company that he or she is in compliance with the terms and conditions of the Plan. In the event a Participant fails to comply with the provisions of paragraphs (a)(i)-(vii) of this Section 9.07 prior to, or during the six months after, any exercise, payment or delivery pursuant to an Award, such exercise, payment or delivery may be rescinded within two years thereafter. In the event of any such rescission, the Participant shall pay to the Company the amount of any gain realized or payment received as a result of the rescinded exercise, payment or delivery, in such manner and on such terms and conditions as may be required, and the Company shall be entitled to set-off against the amount of any such gain any amount owed to the Participant by the Company.
Certification
 
     Sec. 9.08 .
Adjustments to Reflect Capital Changes
          (a) . The number and kind of shares subject to outstanding Awards, the Exercise Price or Exercise Price for such shares, the number and kind of shares available for Awards subsequently granted under the Plan and the maximum number of shares in respect of which Awards can be made to any Participant in any calendar year shall be appropriately adjusted to reflect any stock dividend, stock split, combination or exchange of shares, merger, consolidation or other change in capitalization with a similar substantive effect upon the Plan or the Awards granted under the Plan. The Committee shall have the power and sole discretion to determine the amount of the adjustment to be made in each case.
Recapitalization
          (b) . After any Merger in which the Company is not the surviving corporation or pursuant to which a majority of the shares which are of the same class as the shares that are subject to outstanding Options are exchanged for, or converted into, or otherwise become shares of another corporation, the surviving, continuing, successor or purchasing corporation, as the case may be (the "Acquiring Corporation"), will either assume the Company's rights and obligations under outstanding Award Agreements or substitute awards in respect of the Acquiring Corporation's stock for outstanding Awards, provided, however, that if the Acquiring Corporation does not assume or substitute for such outstanding Awards, the Board shall provide prior to the Merger that any unexercisable and/or unvested portion of the outstanding Awards shall be immediately exercisable and vested as of a date prior to such Merger, as the Board so determines. The exercise and/or vesting of any Award that was permissible solely by reason of this Section 9.08 shall be conditioned upon the consummation of the Merger. Any Awards which are neither assumed by the Acquiring Corporation nor exercised as of the date of the Merger shall terminate effective as of the effective date of the Merger. Comparable rights shall accrue to each Participant in the event of successive Mergers of the character described above.
Certain Mergers
          (c) . After any Merger in which the Company or a Subsidiary shall be a surviving corporation, the Committee may grant Options or other Awards under the provisions of the Plan, pursuant to Section 424 of the Code or as is otherwise permitted under the Code, in full or partial replacement of or substitution for old stock options granted under a plan of another party to the merger whose shares of stock subject to the old options may no longer be issued following the Merger. The manner of application of the foregoing provisions to such options and any appropriate adjustments in the terms of such stock options shall be determined by the Committee in its sole discretion. Any such adjustments may provide for the elimination of any fractional shares which might otherwise become subject to any Options. The foregoing shall not be deemed to preclude the Company from assuming or substituting for stock options of acquired companies other than pursuant to this Plan.
Options to Purchase Shares or Stock of Acquired Companies
          (d) . Any adjustments to outstanding Awards shall be consistent with Sections 409A and 424 of the Code, to the extent applicable.
Adjustments
     Sec. 9.09 . Shares of Common Stock shall not be issued hereunder unless the issuance and delivery of such shares shall comply with applicable laws and shall be further subject to the approval of counsel for the Company with respect to such compliance.
Legal Compliance
 
     Sec. 9.10 . No Participant or other person shall have any claim of right to be granted an Award under the Plan. Neither the Plan nor any action taken hereunder shall be construed as giving any Participant any right to be retained in the service of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries.
No Right to Employment
     Sec. 9.11 . Payments received by a Participant pursuant to the provisions of the Plan shall not be included in the determination of benefits under any pension, group insurance or other benefit plan applicable to the Participant which is maintained by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, except as may be provided under the terms of such plans or determined by the Board.
Awards Not Includable for Benefit Purposes
     Sec. 9.12 . All determinations made and actions taken pursuant to the Plan shall be governed by the laws of the State of Maryland, other than the conflict of laws provisions thereof, and construed in accordance therewith.
Governing Law
     Sec. 9.13 . No rule of strict construction shall be implied against the Company, the Committee or any other person in the interpretation of any of the terms of the Plan, any Award granted under the Plan or any rule or procedure established by the Committee.
No Strict Construction
     Sec. 9.14 . The captions (i.e., all Section headings) used in the Plan are for convenience only, do not constitute a part of the Plan, and shall not be deemed to limit, characterize or affect in any way any provisions of the Plan, and all provisions of the Plan shall be construed as if no captions had been used in the Plan.
Captions
     Sec. 9.15 . Whenever possible, each provision in the Plan and every Award at any time granted under the Plan shall be interpreted in such manner as to be effective and valid under applicable law, but if any provision of the Plan or any Award at any time granted under the Plan shall be held to be prohibited by or invalid under applicable law, then (a) such provision shall be deemed amended to accomplish the objectives of the provision as originally written to the fullest extent permitted by law and (b) all other provisions of the Plan, such Award and every other Award at any time granted under the Plan shall remain in full force and effect.
Severability
     Sec. 9.16 .
Amendment and Termination
          (a) . The Board shall have complete power and authority to amend the Plan at any time; provided, that no termination or amendment of the Plan may, without the consent of the Participant to whom any Award shall theretofore have been granted under the Plan, materially adversely affect the right of such individual under such Award; and provided further, that no such alteration or amendment of the Plan shall, without approval by the shareholders of the Company (a) increase the total number of shares of Common Stock which may be issued or delivered under the Plan, (b) increase the total number of shares which may be covered by Awards to any one Participant, or (c) change the minimum Option Exercise Price.
Amendment
          (b) . The Board shall have the right and the power to terminate the Plan at any time. No Award shall be granted under the Plan after the termination of the Plan, but the termination of the Plan shall not have any other effect and any Award outstanding at the time of the termination of the Plan may be exercised after termination of the Plan at any time prior to the expiration date of such Award to the same extent such Award would have been exercisable had the
Termination
 
Plan not been terminated. A termination of the Plan will comply with the requirements of Section 409A of the Code and its corresponding regulations and related guidance.
     Sec. 9.17 . The Plan is intended to comply with applicable law. Without limiting the foregoing, the Plan is intended to comply with the applicable requirements of Section 409A of the Code and its corresponding regulations and related guidance, and shall be administered in accordance with Section 409A of the Code to the extent it applies to the Plan. To the extent that any provision of the Plan or an Award Agreement would cause a conflict with the requirements of Section 409A of the Code or would cause the administration of the Plan to fail to satisfy the requirements of Section 409A of the Code, such provision shall be deemed null and void to the extent permitted by applicable law.
Compliance with Law

Exhibit 10.3
     1.01 . The purpose of the Allegheny Energy, Inc. 2008 Long-Term Incentive Plan (as the same may be amended from time to time, the "") is to assist Allegheny Energy, Inc., a Maryland corporation (the ""), and its Subsidiaries (as defined below) in attracting and retaining highly competent key employees and directors and to act as an incentive in motivating selected key employees and directors of the Company and its Subsidiaries (as defined below) to achieve long-term corporate objectives.
Purpose
Plan
Company
     1.02 . The Plan has been approved by the Board of Directors of the Company (the "") to be effective as of the date of approval of the Plan by the stockholders of the Company (the ""). The Plan shall remain in effect until the tenth anniversary of the Effective Date; , , that, to the extent necessary to comply with the requirements of Section 162(m) of the Code (as defined below), the provisions of ARTICLE VII and ARTICLE VIII with respect to performance-based awards to "covered employees" under Section 162(m) of the Code shall expire as of the fifth anniversary of the Effective Date (unless subsequently submitted to, and approved by, the Company's stockholders).
Adoption and Term
Board
Effective Date
provided
however
     For the purposes of this Plan, capitalized terms shall have the following meanings:
     2.01 "" shall have the meaning given to such term in Section 9.08(b).
Acquiring Corporation
     2.02 "" means any grant to a Participant of one or a combination of Non-Qualified Stock Options or Incentive Stock Options or Stock Appreciation Rights described in ARTICLE VI, Restricted Shares and Restricted Stock Units described in ARTICLE VII and Performance Awards described in ARTICLE VIII.
Award
     2.03 "" means a written or electronic agreement between the Company and a Participant or a written or electronic notice from the Company to a
Award Agreement
 
Participant specifically setting forth the terms and conditions of an Award granted under the Plan.
     2.04 "" means, with respect to an Award, the period of time set forth in the Award Agreement during which specified target performance goals must be achieved or other conditions set forth in the Award Agreement must be satisfied.
Award Period
     2.05 "" means an individual, trust or estate who or which, by a written designation of the Participant filed with the Company or by operation of law, succeeds to the rights and obligations of the Participant under the Plan and an Award Agreement upon the Participant's death.
Beneficiary
     2.06 "" shall have the meaning given to such term in Section 1.02.
Board
     2.07 "" shall be deemed to have occurred at such time as (i) any individual, entity or group (within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) or 14(d)(2) of the Exchange Act) is or becomes the "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of 25% or more of the combined voting power of the Company Voting Securities; or (ii) during any period of not more than two years, individuals who constitute the Board as of the beginning of the period and any new director (other than a director designated by a person who has entered into an agreement with the Company to effect a transaction described in clause (i) or (iii) of this sentence) whose election by the Board or nomination for election by the Company's stockholders was approved by a vote of at least two-thirds of the directors then still in office who either were directors at such time or whose election or nomination for election was previously so approved, cease for any reason to constitute a majority thereof; or (iii) the stockholders of the Company approve a merger or consolidation of the Company with any other corporation, other than a merger or consolidation which would result in the Company Voting Securities outstanding immediately prior thereto continuing to represent (either by remaining outstanding or by being converted into voting securities of the surviving entity) at least 50% of the combined voting power of the Company Voting Securities or the voting securities of such surviving entity outstanding immediately after such merger or consolidation, or the stockholders of the Company approve a plan of complete liquidation of the Company or any agreement for the sale or disposition by the Company of all or substantially all of the Company's assets.
Change in Control
     2.08 "" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. References to a section of the Code include that section and any comparable section or sections of any future legislation that amends, supplements or supersedes said section.
Code
     2.09 "" means the committee established in accordance with Section 3.01; , , that with respect to Awards that are intended to be "qualified performance-based compensation" under Section 162(m) of the Code, the "" means a committee that consists of two or more persons appointed by the
Committee
provided
however
Committee
 
Board, all of whom shall be "outside directors," as defined under Section 162(m) of the Code and related regulations and "non-employee" directors as defined under Rule 16b-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act.
     2.10 "" shall have the meaning given to such term in Section 1.01.
Company
     2.11 "" means Common Stock of the Company.
Common Stock
     2.12 "" means the combined voting power of all outstanding securities of the Company entitled to vote generally in the election of directors of the Company.
Company Voting Securities
     2.13 "" means the date as of which the Committee grants an Award. If the Committee contemplates an immediate grant to a Participant, the Date of Grant shall be the date of the Committee's action. If the Committee contemplates a date on which the grant is to be made other than the date of the Committee's action, the Date of Grant shall be the date so contemplated and set forth in or determinable from the records of action of the Committee; , , that the Date of Grant shall not precede the date of the Committee's action.
Date of Grant
provided
however
     2.14 "" shall have the meaning given to such term in Section 1.02.
Effective Date
     2.15 "" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Exchange Act
     2.16 "" shall have the meaning given to such term in Section 6.01(b).
Exercise Price
     2.17 "" means, as of any applicable date, the closing price per share of the Common Stock as quoted in the NYSE-Composite Transactions listing in (or such other reliable publication as the Committee, in its discretion, may determine to rely upon) for the date as of which Fair Market Value is to be determined. If there are no sales on such date, then Fair Market Value shall be the closing price per share of the Common Stock as so quoted on the Date of Grant. If the Common Stock is not listed on the New York Stock Exchange on the date as of which Fair Market Value is to be determined, the Committee shall in good faith determine the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock on such date. Fair Market Value shall be determined without regard to any restriction other than a restriction which, by its terms, will never lapse. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the case of Options granted in connection with the assumption by the Company of stock options of acquired companies, as described in Section 9.08(c), the Committee may determine that the term "Fair Market Value" shall have the same meaning as is given to such term under the provisions of such assumed stock option. All determinations regarding Fair Market Value of shares of
Fair Market Value
The Wall Street Journal
 
Common Stock shall be consistent with the requirements of Section 409A of the Code and its corresponding regulations and related guidance.
     2.18 "" means a stock option within the meaning of Section 422 of the Code.
Incentive Stock Option
     2.19 "" means any merger, reorganization, consolidation, share exchange, transfer of assets or other transaction having similar effect involving the Company.
Merger
     2.20 "" means a stock option which is not an Incentive Stock Option.
Non-Qualified Stock Option
     2.21 "" means all Non-Qualified Stock Options and Incentive Stock Options granted at any time under the Plan.
Options
     2.22 "" means a person designated to receive an Award under the Plan in accordance with Section 5.01.
Participant
     2.23 "" means Awards granted in accordance with ARTICLE VIII.
Performance Awards
     2.24 "" shall have the meaning given to such term in Section 1.01.
Plan
     2.25 "" shall have the meaning given to such term in Section 4.01.
Pool Limit
     2.26 "" means Common Stock subject to restrictions imposed in connection with Awards granted under ARTICLE VII.
Restricted Shares
     2.27 "" means a Participant's contractual right to receive a stated number of shares of Common Stock or, if provided by the Committee on the Date of Grant, cash equal to the Fair Market Value of such shares of Common Stock, under the Plan at the end of a specified period of time that is forfeitable by the Participant until the completion of a specified period of future service, or until otherwise determined by the Committee or in accordance with the Plan and the applicable Award Agreement.
Restricted Stock Unit
     2.28 "" means early or normal retirement under a pension plan or arrangement of the Company or one of its Subsidiaries in which the Participant participates.
Retirement
     2.29 "" means, with respect to shares of Common Stock, the right to receive a payment from the Company in cash and/or shares of Common Stock equal to the product of (i) the excess, if any, of the Fair Market Value of one share of Common Stock on the exercise date over a specified base price fixed by the
Stock Appreciation Right
 
Committee on the Date of Grant, multiplied by (ii) a stated number of shares of Common Stock.
     2.30 "" means a subsidiary of the Company within the meaning of Section 424(f) of the Code.
Subsidiary
     2.31 "" means the voluntary or involuntary termination of a Participant's employment with the Company or a Subsidiary for any reason, including death, disability, retirement or as the result of the divestiture of the Participant's employer or any similar transaction in which the Participant's employer ceases to be the Company or one of its Subsidiaries. A leave of absence approved in accordance with Company policy shall not be deemed a Termination of Employment. Whether entering military or other government service shall constitute Termination of Employment, or whether a Termination of Employment shall occur as a result of disability, shall be determined in each case by the Committee in its sole discretion. In the case of a director who is not an employee of the Company or a Subsidiary, Termination of Employment shall mean voluntary or involuntary cessation of Board service for any reason. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Termination of Employment for purposes of determining whether an Award that is "deferred compensation" and subject to Section 409A of the Code is payable from the Plan means a "separation from service" as determined under Section 409A of the Code and its corresponding regulations and related guidance.
Termination of Employment
     3.01 . The Plan shall be administered by a committee of the Board (the "") comprised of at least two directors of the Company. The Committee shall have exclusive and final authority in each determination, interpretation or other action affecting the Plan and its Participants. The Committee shall have the sole discretionary authority to interpret the Plan, to establish and modify administrative rules for the Plan, to impose such conditions and restrictions on Awards as it determines appropriate, and to take such steps in connection with the Plan and Awards granted hereunder as it may deem necessary or advisable. Subject to compliance with applicable legal requirements, the Committee may (i) delegate to any designated executive officer of the Company the power to determine the employees (other than himself or herself or any employee to whom such designated executive officer reports) to receive Awards under the Plan and the types and amounts of such Awards, subject in each case to the terms and conditions of the Plan, and (ii) delegate to a committee or individual the authority to carry out ministerial functions in respect of the Plan and Awards granted under the Plan. In addition, the Board may exercise any of the authority conferred upon the Committee hereunder. In the event of any such delegation of authority or exercise of authority by the
Committee
Committee
 
Board, references in the Plan to the Committee shall be deemed to refer to the delegate of the Committee or the Board, as the case may be.
     4.01 . Subject to Section 4.02 and adjustments in accordance with Section 9.08, the maximum aggregate number of shares of Common Stock initially authorized to be issued under the Plan shall be 4,600,000 shares of Common Stock (the ""). The shares to be offered under the Plan shall be authorized and unissued shares of Common Stock, or issued shares of Common Stock which will have been reacquired by the Company.
Number of Shares Issuable
Pool Limit
     4.02 . Each share of Common Stock issued or to be issued in connection with any Award other than an Option or a Stock Appreciation Right shall be counted against the Pool Limit as one share of Common Stock. Each share of Common Stock issued or to be issued in connection with any Option or Stock Appreciation Right shall be counted against the Pool Limit as 0.49 of a share of Common Stock. For these purposes, the number of shares of Common Stock taken into account with respect to a Stock Appreciation Right shall be the number of shares of Common Stock underlying the Stock Appreciation Right at grant, and not the final number of shares of Common Stock delivered upon exercise of the Stock Appreciation Right. Any shares of Common Stock previously the subject of an Award that again become available for grant pursuant to Section 4.03 shall be added back to the Pool Limit in the same proportion, and using the same multiplier, pursuant to which such Awards reduced the shares of Common Stock in the Pool Limit.
Treatment of Awards
     4.03 . Shares of Common Stock covered by any unexercised portions of terminated Options (including canceled Options) granted under ARTICLE VI, shares of Common Stock forfeited as provided in Section 7.02(d) and shares of Common Stock subject to any Award that are otherwise surrendered by a Participant or terminated may be subject to new Awards under the Plan. If any shares of Common Stock are withheld from those otherwise issuable or are tendered to the Company, by attestation or otherwise, in connection with the exercise of an Option, the gross number of shares of Common Stock covered by the award as issued or portion thereof exercised shall be deemed delivered for purposes of determining the maximum number of shares available for delivery under the Plan.
Shares Subject to Terminated Awards
     4.04 . Except to the extent (i) approved in advance by holders of a majority of the shares of the Company entitled to vote generally in the election of directors or (ii) pursuant to Section 9.08, the Committee shall not have the power or authority to reduce, whether through amendment or otherwise, the exercise
Prohibition Against Repricing
 
price of any outstanding Option or base price of any outstanding Stock Appreciation Right or to grant any new Award in substitution for or upon the cancellation of Options or Stock Appreciation Rights previously granted.
     5.01 . Participants in the Plan shall be such key employees and directors of the Company and its Subsidiaries as the Committee, in its sole discretion, may designate from time to time. The Committee's designation of a Participant in any year shall not require the Committee to designate such person to receive Awards in any other year. The designation of a Participant to receive an Award under a portion of the Plan does not require the Committee to include such Participant under other portions of the Plan. The Committee shall consider such factors as it deems pertinent in selecting Participants and in determining the types and amounts of their respective Awards. Subject to adjustment in accordance with Section 9.08, during any calendar year no Participant shall be granted Awards in respect of more than 1,000,000 shares of Common Stock (whether through grants of Options or other Awards of Common Stock or rights with respect thereto); , , that if it is the Committee's intention as of the Date of Grant of an Award, as evidenced by the applicable Award Agreement, that such Award shall be earned by the Participant over a period of more than one calendar year, then for purposes of applying the foregoing per calendar year share limitation, the shares of Common Stock subject to such Award shall be allocated to the first calendar year in which such shares may be earned (determined without regard to possible vesting as a result of a Change in Control or pursuant to any provision of this Plan authorizing the Committee to accelerate the vesting of an Award). In the case of Awards that are denominated in cash, during any calendar year no Participant shall be granted Awards with a dollar value in excess of the Fair Market Value of 1,000,000 shares of Common Stock (such Fair Market Value determined as of the Date of Grant of the Awards).
Eligible Participants
provided
however
     6.01 .
Option Awards
     (a) . The Committee may grant, to such Participants as the Committee may select, Options entitling the Participants to purchase shares of Common Stock from the Company in such numbers, at such prices, and on such terms and subject to such conditions, not inconsistent with the terms of the Plan, as may be established by the Committee. The terms of any Option granted under the Plan shall be set forth in an Award Agreement.
Grant of Options
 
     (b) . The exercise price of each share of Common Stock which may be purchased upon exercise of any Option granted under the Plan (the "") shall be determined by the Committee; , , that, except in the case of any substituted Options described in Section 9.08(c), the Exercise Price shall in all cases be equal to or greater than the Fair Market Value on the Date of Grant.
Exercise Price of Options
Exercise Price
provided
however
     (c) . Except as otherwise expressly provided in the Plan, the Committee may designate, at the time of the grant of an Option, such Option as an Incentive Stock Option or a Non-Qualified Stock Option; , , that an Option may be designated as an Incentive Stock Option only if the applicable Participant is an employee of the Company or a Subsidiary on the Date of Grant.
Designation of Options
provided
however
     (d) . No Participant may be granted Incentive Stock Options under the Plan (or any other plans of the Company and its Subsidiaries) that would result in Incentive Stock Options to purchase shares of Common Stock with an aggregate Fair Market Value (measured on the Date of Grant) of more than $100,000 first becoming exercisable by such Participant in any one calendar year. Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan to the contrary, no Incentive Stock Option shall be granted to any person who, at the time the Option is granted, owns stock (including stock owned by application of the constructive ownership rules in Section 424(d) of the Code) possessing more than 10% of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock of the Company or any Subsidiary, unless at the time the Incentive Stock Option is granted the Exercise Price is at least 110% of the Fair Market Value on the Date of Grant of the Common Stock subject to the Incentive Stock Option and the Incentive Stock Option by its terms is not exercisable for more than five years from the Date of Grant.
Special Incentive Stock Option Rules
     6.02 .
Stock Appreciation Rights
     (a) . The Committee may grant, to such Participants as the Committee may select, Stock Appreciation Rights on such terms and subject to such conditions, not inconsistent with the terms of the Plan, as may be established by the Committee. Stock Appreciation Rights may be granted in tandem with Options which, unless otherwise determined by the Committee at or after the Date of Grant, shall have substantially similar terms and conditions to such Options to the extent applicable, or may be granted on a freestanding basis, not related to any Option. The terms of any Stock Appreciation Right granted under the Plan shall be set forth in an Award Agreement.
Grant of Stock Appreciation Rights
     (b) . The base price for any Stock Appreciation Right shall be determined by the Committee; that, except in the case of any substituted Award described in Section 9.08(c), the base price shall in all cases be equal to or greater than the Fair Market Value on the Date of Grant.
Base Price
provided
 
     6.03 .
Terms of Stock Options and Stock Appreciation Rights
     (a) . An Award Agreement with respect to Options or Stock Appreciation Rights may contain such waiting periods, exercise dates and restrictions on exercise (including, but not limited to, periodic installments) as may be determined by the Committee at the time of grant.
Conditions on Exercise
     (b) . Options and Stock Appreciation Rights shall terminate after the first to occur of the following events:
Duration of Options and Stock Appreciation Rights
     (i) Termination of the Award as provided in Section 6.03(e) following the Participant's Termination of Employment; or
     (ii) Ten years from the Date of Grant.
     (c) . The Committee, in its sole discretion, shall have the right (but shall not in any case be obligated), exercisable at any time after the Date of Grant, to permit the exercise of any Option or Stock Appreciation Right prior to the time such Option or Stock Appreciation Right would otherwise become exercisable under the terms of the related Award Agreement.
Acceleration of Exercise Time
     (d) . In addition to the extensions permitted under Section 6.03(e) in the event of Termination of Employment, the Committee, in its sole discretion, shall have the right (but shall not in any case be obligated), exercisable on or at any time after the Date of Grant, to permit the exercise of any Option or Stock Appreciation Right after its expiration date described in Section 6.03(e), subject, however, to the limitation described in Section 6.03(b)(ii).
Extension of Exercise Time
     (e) .
Exercise of Options or Stock Appreciation Rights Upon Termination of Employment
     (i) . In the event of Termination of Employment of a Participant other than by reason of death, disability or Retirement, all Options and Stock Appreciation Rights that were not exercisable as of the date of the Termination of Employment shall expire as of such date and the right of the Participant to exercise any Options or Stock Appreciation Rights that were exercisable as of the date of Termination of Employment shall expire 90 days after the date of such Termination of Employment, unless the exercise period is extended by the Committee in accordance with Section 6.03(d). In no event, however, may the Option be exercised later than the date of expiration of the Option or Stock Appreciation Right determined pursuant to Section 6.03(b)(ii).
Termination
     (ii) . Unless otherwise provided for in an Award Agreement, in the event of a Participant's Termination of Employment by reason of
Disability or Retirement
 
disability or Retirement, the right of the Participant to exercise all Options and Stock Appreciation Rights that were not exercisable as of the date of the Termination of Employment shall expire as of such date and all Options and Stock Appreciation Rights that he or she was entitled to exercise upon Termination of Employment shall expire three years after the date of such Termination of Employment, unless the exercise period is extended by the Committee in accordance with Section 6.03(d), that, in no event, however, may any Option or Stock Appreciation Right be exercised later than the date of expiration of the Option determined pursuant to Section 6.03(b)(ii).
provided
     (iii) . Unless otherwise provided for in an Award Agreement, in the event of the death of a Participant while employed by the Company or a Subsidiary and prior to the expiration of any Option or Stock Appreciation Right as provided pursuant to Section 6.03(e)(i) or Section 6.03(d) above, all Options and Stock Appreciation Rights that were not exercisable as of the date of death shall expire as of such date and to the extent the right to exercise the Option or Stock Appreciation Right was accrued as of the date of death, the right of the Participant's Beneficiary to exercise the Option or Stock Appreciation Right shall expire one year after the date of the Participant's death. In the event of the death of a Participant which occurs within any post-termination exercise period, and prior to the expiration of any Option or Stock Appreciation Right as provided pursuant to Section 6.03(e)(i) or 6.03(e)(ii)or Section 6.03(d) above, all such Options and Stock Appreciation Rights that were not exercisable as of the date of death shall expire as of such date and to the extent the right to exercise such Option or Stock Appreciation Right was accrued as of the date of such Termination of Employment and had not expired during such additional period, the right of the Participant's Beneficiary to exercise the Option or Stock Appreciation Right, as the case may be, shall expire upon the later of one year after the date of the Participant's death or, if applicable, three years from the date of the Participant's Termination of Employment by reason of disability or Retirement. The exercise period may be extended by the Committee in accordance with Section 6.03(d). In no event, however, may any Option be exercised later than the date of expiration of the Option or Stock Appreciation Right determined pursuant to Section 6.03(b)(ii).
Death
     6.04 . The Committee shall establish procedures governing the exercise of Options, which procedures shall generally require that written or electronic notice of exercise thereof be given and that the exercise price thereof be paid in full at the time of exercise (i) in cash or cash equivalents, including by personal check, or (ii) in accordance with such other procedures or in such other forms as the Committee shall from time to time determine. The Exercise Price of any Options exercised may be paid in full or in part in the form of shares of Common Stock, based on the Fair Market Value of such shares of Common Stock on the date of exercise, subject to such rules and procedures as may be adopted by the Committee.
Option Exercise Procedures
     6.05 . Each Stock Appreciation Right granted under the Plan shall be exercised by written or electronic notice to the
Stock Appreciation Right Exercise Procedures
 
Company which must be received by the officer or employee of the Company designated in the Award Agreement at or before the close of business on the expiration date of the Award. Subject to Section 9.05, upon exercise of a Stock Appreciation Right, the Participant shall be entitled to receive payment in the form, determined by the Committee, of cash or shares of Common Stock having a Fair Market Value equal to such cash amount, or a combination of shares of Common Stock and cash having an aggregate value equal to such amount, determined by multiplying:
     (i) any increase in the Fair Market Value of one share of Common Stock on the exercise date over the price fixed by the Committee on the Date of Grant of such Stock Appreciation Right, by
     (ii) the number of shares of Common Stock with respect to which the Stock Appreciation Right is exercised;
that on the Date of Grant, the Committee may establish, in its sole discretion, a maximum amount per share that will be payable upon exercise of a Stock Appreciation Right. Stock Appreciation Rights that are granted in tandem with an Option may only be exercised upon the surrender of the right to exercise such Option for an equivalent number of shares of Common Stock, and may be exercised only with respect to the shares of Common Stock for which the related Option is then exercisable.
provided
     6.06 . A Participant or a transferee of an Option or Stock Appreciation Right pursuant to Section 9.04 shall have no rights as a stockholder with respect to the shares of Common Stock covered by an Option or Stock Appreciation Right until that Participant or transferee shall have become the holder of record of any such shares, and no adjustment shall be made with respect to any such shares of Common Stock for dividends in cash or other property or distributions of other rights on the Common Stock for which the record date is prior to the date on which that Participant or transferee shall have become the holder of record of any shares covered by such Option; , , that Participants are entitled to the adjustments set forth in Section 9.08.
Rights as a Stockholder
provided
however
     6.07 . Unless otherwise provided by the Committee in the applicable Award Agreement, in the event of a Change in Control, all Options or Stock Appreciation Rights outstanding on the date of such Change in Control shall become immediately and fully exercisable.
Change in Control
     7.01 . The Committee may grant to any Participant an Award of such number of shares of Common Stock or
Restricted Share and Restricted Stock Unit Awards
 
Restricted Stock Units on such terms, conditions and restrictions, whether based on performance standards, periods of service, retention by the Participant of ownership of specified shares of Common Stock or other criteria, as the Committee shall establish. With respect to performance-based Awards of Restricted Shares or Restricted Stock Units intended to qualify for deductibility under the "performance-based" compensation exception contained in Section 162(m) of the Code, performance targets will include specified levels of one or more of the following (in absolute terms or relative to one or more other companies or indices): adjusted net income, operating income, operating expenses, return on investment, return on stockholders' equity, stock price appreciation, adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, service unavailability, generator availability, OSHA recordable incident rate, customer satisfaction, relative total stockholder return, earnings per share and/or growth in earnings per share. The terms of any Restricted Share Award or Restricted Stock Unit granted under this Plan shall be set forth in an Award Agreement which shall contain provisions determined by the Committee and not inconsistent with this Plan.
     7.02 .
Terms of Restricted Share Awards
     (a) . As soon as practicable after the Date of Grant of a Restricted Share Award by the Committee, the Company shall cause to be transferred on the books of the Company or its agent, shares of Common Stock, registered on behalf of the Participant, evidencing the Restricted Shares covered by the Award, subject to forfeiture to the Company as of the Date of Grant if an Award Agreement with respect to the Restricted Shares covered by the Award is not duly executed by the Participant and timely returned to the Company. All shares of Common Stock covered by Awards under this ARTICLE VII shall be subject to the restrictions, terms and conditions contained in the Plan and the applicable Award Agreements entered into by the appropriate Participants. Until the lapse or release of all restrictions applicable to an Award of Restricted Shares the share certificates representing such Restricted Shares may be held in custody by the Company, its designee, or, if the certificates bear a restrictive legend, by the Participant. Upon the lapse or release of all restrictions with respect to an Award as described in Section 7.02(c), one or more share certificates, registered in the name of the Participant, for an appropriate number of shares as provided in Section 7.02(c), free of any restrictions set forth in the Plan and the related Award Agreement shall be delivered to the Participant.
Issuance of Restricted Shares
     (b) . Beginning on the Date of Grant of a Restricted Share Award and subject to execution of the related Award Agreement as provided in Section 7.02(a), and except as otherwise provided in such Award Agreement, the Participant shall become a stockholder of the Company with respect to all shares subject to the Award Agreement and shall have all of the rights of a stockholder, including, but not limited to, the right to vote such shares and, unless otherwise determined by the Committee, in its sole discretion, the right to receive dividends; , , that,
Stockholder Rights
provided
however
 
unless otherwise determined by the Committee, in its sole discretion, any shares of Common Stock distributed as a dividend or otherwise with respect to any Restricted Shares as to which the restrictions have not yet lapsed, shall be subject to the same restrictions as such Restricted Shares and held or restricted as provided in Section 7.02(a).
     (c) . Upon expiration or earlier termination of the forfeiture period without a forfeiture and the satisfaction of or release from any other conditions prescribed by the Committee, or at such earlier time as provided under the provisions of Section 7.06, the restrictions applicable to the Restricted Shares shall lapse. As of the date specified in the Award Agreement, subject to the requirements of Section 9.05, the Company shall deliver to the Participant or, in case of the Participant's death, to the Participant's Beneficiary, one or more share certificates for the appropriate number of shares of Common Stock, free of all such restrictions, except for any restrictions that may be imposed by law.
Delivery of Shares Upon Vesting
     (d) . Subject to Sections 7.04 and 7.06, Restricted Shares shall be forfeited and returned to the Company and all rights of the Participant with respect to such Restricted Shares shall terminate unless the Participant continues in the service of the Company or a Subsidiary until the expiration of the forfeiture period for such Restricted Shares and satisfies any and all other conditions set forth in the Award Agreement. The Committee shall determine the forfeiture period (which may, but need not, lapse in installments) and any other terms and conditions applicable with respect to any Restricted Share Award.
Forfeiture of Restricted Shares
     7.03 .
Terms of Restricted Stock Units
     (a) . Unless otherwise determined by the Committee at the Date of Grant and as specified in the Award Agreement, (i) any cash dividends or distributions credited to the Participant's account shall be deemed to have been invested in additional Restricted Stock Units on the record date established for the related dividend or distribution in an amount equal to the greatest whole number which may be obtained by dividing (A) the value of such dividend or distribution on the record date by (B) the Fair Market Value of one share of Common Stock on such date, and such additional Restricted Stock Units shall be subject to the same terms and conditions as are applicable in respect of the Restricted Stock Units with respect to which such dividends or distributions were payable, and (ii) if any such dividends or distributions are paid in shares of Common Stock or other securities, such shares and other securities shall be subject to the same forfeiture period and other restrictions as apply to the Restricted Stock Units with respect to which they were paid. Unless and until the Company issues a certificate or certificates to a Participant for shares of Common Stock in respect of his or her Award of Restricted Stock Units, or otherwise determined by the Committee at or after the Date of Grant, a Participant holding outstanding Restricted Stock Units shall not
Rights as a Stockholder
 
be entitled to exercise any voting rights and any other rights as a stockholder with respect to the shares of Common Stock underlying such Award.
     (b) . Unless the Committee determines otherwise at the Date of Grant and as set forth in the Award Agreement, after the lapse of the forfeiture period with respect to any Restricted Stock Units and as of the date specified in the Award Agreement, the Company shall issue the shares of Common Stock underlying such Restricted Stock Unit (plus additional shares of Common Stock for any Restricted Stock Units credited in respect of dividends or distributions) or, if the Committee so determines in its sole discretion, an amount in cash equal to the Fair Market Value of such shares of Common Stock. Upon such terms and conditions as the Committee may establish from time to time, a Participant may be permitted to defer the receipt of the shares of Common Stock or cash otherwise deliverable upon settlement of Restricted Stock Units.
Settlement of Restricted Stock Units
     7.04 . Notwithstanding anything contained in this ARTICLE VII to the contrary, the Committee may, in its sole discretion, waive the forfeiture period and any other conditions set forth in any Award Agreement for a Participant who has terminated employment prior to the end of the Award Period or under other appropriate circumstances (including the death, disability or Retirement of the Participant or a material change in circumstances arising after the Date of Grant) and subject to such terms and conditions (including forfeiture of a proportionate number of the Restricted Shares or Restricted Stock Units) as the Committee shall deem appropriate.
Waiver of Forfeiture Period
     7.05 . None of the Restricted Shares or Restricted Stock Units may be assigned or transferred (other than by will or the laws of descent and distribution or to an inter vivos trust with respect to which the Participant is treated as the owner under Sections 671 through 677 of the Code), pledged or sold prior to the lapse of the restrictions applicable thereto.
Restriction on Transferability
     7.06 . Unless otherwise provided by the Committee in the applicable Award Agreement, in the event of a Change in Control, all restrictions applicable to the Restricted Share Award or Restricted Stock Unit shall terminate fully and the Participant shall immediately have the right to the delivery of share certificates for such shares in accordance with Section 7.02(c).
Change in Control
 
     8.01 .
Performance Awards
     (a) . The Committee may grant Performance Awards to Participants. A Performance Award shall consist of the right to receive a payment (measured by the Fair Market Value of a specified number of shares of Common Stock, increases in such Fair Market Value during the Award Period and/or a fixed cash amount) contingent upon the extent to which certain predetermined performance targets have been met during an Award Period. Performance Awards may be made in conjunction with, or in addition to, any other Awards made under the Plan. The Award Period shall be determined by the Committee and as specified in the applicable Award Agreement. The Committee, in its discretion and under such terms as it deems appropriate, may permit newly eligible Participants, such as those who are promoted or newly hired, to receive Performance Awards after an Award Period has commenced.
Award Periods and Determinations of Awards
     (b) . The performance targets may include such goals related to the performance of the Company and/or the performance of a Participant as may be established by the Committee in its sole discretion. In the case of Performance Awards intended to qualify for deductibility under the "performance-based" compensation exception contained in Section 162(m) of the Code, the targets will include specified levels of one or more of the following (in absolute terms or relative to one or more other companies or indices): adjusted net income, operating income, operating expenses, return on investment, return on stockholders' equity, stock price appreciation, adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, service unavailability, generator availability, OSHA recordable incident rate, customer satisfaction, relative total stockholder return, earnings per share and/or growth in earnings per share. The performance targets established by the Committee may vary for different Award Periods and need not be the same for each Participant receiving a Performance Award in an Award Period. Except to the extent inconsistent with the performance-based compensation exception under Section 162(m) of the Code, in the case of Performance Awards granted to Participants to whom such section is applicable, the Committee, in its sole discretion, but only under extraordinary circumstances as determined by the Committee, may change any prior determination of performance targets for any Award Period at any time prior to the final determination of the value of a related Performance Award when events or transactions occur to cause such performance targets to be an inappropriate measure of achievement.
Performance Targets
     (c) . The Committee, on or as soon as practicable after the Date of Grant, shall prescribe a formula to determine the percentage
Earning Performance Awards
 
of the applicable Performance Award to be earned based upon the degree of attainment of performance targets.
     (d) . Payments of earned Performance Awards shall be made in Options, Stock Appreciation Rights, shares of Common Stock, cash, or a combination thereof, in the discretion of the Committee and as set forth in the Award Agreement. The Committee, in its sole discretion and as set forth in the Award Agreement, may provide such terms and conditions with respect to the payment of earned Performance Awards as it may deem desirable.
Payment of Earned Performance Awards
     8.02 .
Terms of Performance Awards
     (a) . Unless otherwise provided below or in Section 8.03, in the case of a Participant's Termination of Employment prior to the end of an Award Period, the Participant will not have earned any Performance Awards for that Award Period.
Termination of Employment
     (b) . If a Participant's Termination of Employment is because of Retirement prior to the end of an Award Period, the Participant will not be paid any Performance Award, unless the Committee, in its sole and exclusive discretion, determines that an Award should be paid. In such a case, the Participant shall be entitled to receive a pro-rata portion of his or her Award as determined under subsection (d).
Retirement
     (c) . If a Participant's Termination of Employment is due to death or to disability (as determined in the sole and exclusive discretion of the Committee) prior to the end of an Award Period, the Participant or the Participant's Beneficiary, as the case may be, shall be entitled to receive a pro-rata share of his or her Award as determined under subsection (d).
Death or Disability
     (d) . The amount of any payment to be made to a Participant whose employment is terminated by Retirement, death or disability (under the circumstances described in subsections (b) and (c)) will be the amount determined by multiplying (i) the amount of the Performance Award that would have been earned through the end of the Award Period had such employment not been terminated by (ii) a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of whole months such Participant was employed during the Award Period, and the Denominator of which is the total number of months of the Award Period. Any such payment made to a Participant whose employment is terminated prior to the end of an Award Period shall be made as of such date specified in the Award Agreement. Any partial payment previously made or credited to a deferred account for the benefit of a Participant in accordance with Section 8.01(d) of the Plan shall be subtracted from the amount otherwise determined as payable as provided in this Section 8.02(d).
Pro-Rata Payment
 
     (e) . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this ARTICLE VIII, the Committee may, in its sole and exclusive discretion, determine to pay all or any portion of a Performance Award to a Participant who has terminated employment prior to the end of an Award Period or under other appropriate circumstances (including the death, disability or Retirement of the Participant or a material change in circumstances arising after the Date of Grant), subject to such terms and conditions (including forfeiture of a proportionate portion of the Performance Award) as the Committee shall deem appropriate.
Other Events
     8.03 . Unless otherwise provided by the Committee in the applicable Award Agreement, in the event of a Change in Control, all Performance Awards for all Award Periods shall immediately become fully payable to all Participants and shall be paid to Participants within 30 days after such Change in Control.
Change in Control
     9.01 . The terms of the Plan shall govern all Awards granted under the Plan, and in no event shall the Committee have the power to grant any Award under the Plan the terms of which are contrary to any of the provisions of the Plan. In the event any provision of any Award granted under the Plan shall conflict with any term in the Plan as constituted on the Date of Grant of such Award, the term in the Plan as constituted on the Date of Grant of such Award shall control. All Awards granted under the terms of the plan and any related Award Agreement shall be structured to comply with 409A of the Code, its corresponding Treasury regulations and related guidance. Without limiting the foregoing, if and to the extent that any Award is deemed to be deferred compensation for purposes of Section 409A of the Code, the payment of such Award shall only be made upon the occurrence of an event that is permissible payment event for purposes of Section 409A of the Code.
Plan Provisions Control Award Terms
     9.02 . No person shall have any rights under any Award granted under the Plan unless and until the Company and the Participant to whom such Award shall have been granted shall have executed and delivered an Award Agreement or the Participant shall have received notice of the Award authorized by the Committee.
Award Agreement
     9.03 . No Award granted under the Plan to a Participant may be modified (unless such modification does not materially decrease the value of that Award) after its Date of Grant except by express written agreement between the Company and such Participant, provided that any such change (i) may not be inconsistent with the terms of the Plan, and (ii) shall be approved by the Committee; , , that, with the exception of adjustments permitted in Section 9.08, the Exercise Price of any outstanding Award granted under the Plan may not be reduced after
Modification of Award After Grant
provided
however
 
the Date of Grant nor may any outstanding Award granted under the Plan be surrendered to the Company in exchange for a new Award with a lower Exercise Price nor may any other action that would constitute repricing under the applicable rules of the New York Stock Exchange be taken with respect to any outstanding Award.
     9.04 . Except as provided in Section 7.05 in the case of Restricted Shares, a Participant's rights and interest under the Plan may not be assigned or transferred other than by will or the laws of descent and distribution and, during the lifetime of a Participant, only the Participant personally (or, if applicable, the Participant's Beneficiary) may exercise rights under the Plan. The Participant's Beneficiary may exercise the Participant's rights to the extent they are exercisable under the Plan following the death of the Participant. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Committee may grant Non-Qualified Stock Options that are transferable, without payment of consideration, to immediate family members of the Participant, to trusts or partnerships for such family members, or to such other parties as the Committee may approve (as evidenced by the applicable Award Agreement or an amendment thereto), and the Committee may also amend outstanding Non-Qualified Stock Options to provide for such transferability.
Limitation on Transfer
     9.05 . The Company shall be entitled, if the Committee deems it necessary or desirable, to withhold (or secure payment from the Participant in lieu of withholding) the amount of any withholding or other tax required by law to be withheld or paid by the Company with respect to any amount payable and/or shares issuable under such Participant's Award or with respect to any income recognized upon a disqualifying disposition of shares received pursuant to the exercise of an Incentive Stock Option, and the Company may defer payment of cash or issuance of shares upon exercise or vesting of an Award unless indemnified to its satisfaction against any liability for any such tax. The amount of such withholding or tax payment shall be determined by the Committee and shall be payable by the Participant at such time as the Committee determines. With the approval of the Committee, the Participant may elect to meet his or her withholding requirement (i) by having withheld from such Award at the appropriate time that number of shares of Common Stock, rounded up to the next whole share, the Fair Market Value of which is equal to the amount of the minimum withholding taxes due, (ii) by direct payment to the Company in cash of the minimum amount of any taxes required to be withheld with respect to such Award or (iii) by a combination of withholding such shares and paying cash.
Withholding Taxes
     9.06 . Any Award granted under the Plan may be surrendered to the Company for cancellation on such terms as the Committee and the Participant approve.
Surrender of Awards
 
     9.07 .
Cancellation and Rescission of Awards
     (a) . Unless the Award Agreement specifies otherwise, the Committee may cancel, rescind, suspend, withhold or otherwise limit or restrict any unexpired, unpaid, or deferred Awards at any time if the Participant is not in compliance with all applicable provisions of the Award Agreement and the Plan, or if the Participant engages in any "Detrimental Activity" (as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion). For purposes of this Section 9.07, "Detrimental Activity" shall include: (i) the rendering of services for any organization or engaging directly or indirectly in any business which is or becomes competitive with the Company, or which organization or business, or the rendering of services to such organization or business, is or becomes otherwise prejudicial to or in conflict with the interests of the Company; (ii) the disclosure to anyone outside the Company, or the use in other than the Company's business, without prior written authorization from the Company, of any confidential information or material relating to the business of the Company, acquired by the Participant either during or after employment with the Company; (iii) any attempt directly or indirectly to induce any employee of the Company to be employed or perform services elsewhere or any attempt directly or indirectly to solicit the trade or business of any current or prospective customer, supplier or partner of the Company; or (iv) any other conduct or act determined to be injurious, detrimental or prejudicial to any interest of the Company.
Detrimental Activities
     (b) . Upon exercise, payment or delivery pursuant to an Award, the Participant shall certify in a manner acceptable to the Company that he or she is in compliance with the terms and conditions of the Plan. In the event a Participant fails to comply with the provisions of paragraphs (a)(i)-(iv) of this Section 9.07 prior to, or during the six months after, any exercise, payment or delivery pursuant to an Award, such exercise, payment or delivery may be rescinded within two years thereafter. In the event of any such rescission, the Participant shall pay to the Company the amount of any gain realized or payment received as a result of the rescinded exercise, payment or delivery, in such manner and on such terms and conditions as may be required, and the Company shall be entitled to set-off against the amount of any such gain any amount owed to the Participant by the Company.
Certification
     9.08 .
Adjustments to Reflect Capital Changes
     (a) . The number and kind of shares subject to outstanding Awards, the Exercise Price or base price of an Award, the number and kind of shares available for Awards subsequently granted under the Plan and the maximum number of shares in respect of which Awards can be made to any Participant in any calendar year shall be appropriately adjusted to reflect any stock dividend, stock split, combination or exchange of shares, merger, consolidation or other change in capitalization with a similar substantive effect upon the Plan or the Awards granted under
Recapitalization
 
the Plan. The Committee shall have the power and sole discretion to determine the amount of the adjustment to be made in each case.
     (b) . After any Merger in which the Company is not the surviving corporation or pursuant to which a majority of the shares which are of the same class as the shares that are subject to outstanding Awards are exchanged for, or converted into, or otherwise become shares of another corporation, the surviving, continuing, successor or purchasing corporation, as the case may be (the ""), will either assume the Company's rights and obligations under outstanding Award Agreements or substitute awards in respect of the Acquiring Corporation's stock for outstanding Awards, , , that if the Acquiring Corporation does not assume or substitute for such outstanding Awards, the Board shall provide prior to the Merger that any unexercisable and/or unvested portion of the outstanding Awards shall be immediately exercisable and vested as of a date prior to such Merger, as the Board so determines. The exercise and/or vesting of any Award that was permissible solely by reason of this Section 9.08 shall be conditioned upon the consummation of the Merger. Any Awards which are neither assumed by the Acquiring Corporation nor exercised as of the date of the Merger shall terminate effective as of the effective date of the Merger. Comparable rights shall accrue to each Participant in the event of successive Mergers of the character described above.
Certain Mergers
Acquiring Corporation
provided
however
     (c) . After any Merger in which the Company or a Subsidiary shall be a surviving corporation, the Committee may grant Options or other Awards under the provisions of the Plan, pursuant to Section 424 of the Code or as is otherwise permitted under the Code, in full or partial replacement of or substitution for old stock options granted under a plan of another party to the merger whose shares of stock subject to the old options may no longer be issued following the Merger. The manner of application of the foregoing provisions to such options and any appropriate adjustments in the terms of such stock options shall be determined by the Committee in its sole discretion. Any such adjustments may provide for the elimination of any fractional shares which might otherwise become subject to any Options. The foregoing shall not be deemed to preclude the Company from assuming or substituting for stock options of acquired companies other than pursuant to this Plan.
Options to Purchase Shares or Stock of Acquired Companies
     (d) . Any adjustment to outstanding Awards shall be consistent with Sections 409A and 424 of the Code, to the extent applicable.
Adjustments
     9.09 . Pursuant to the Company's recoupment policies, if applicable, a Participant may be required to reimburse the Company for any compensation paid to such Participant with respect to an Award granted under this Plan upon the occurrence of certain specified events set forth in the Company's applicable recoupment policies.
Recoupment
 
     9.10 . Shares of Common Stock shall not be issued hereunder unless the issuance and delivery of such shares shall comply with applicable laws and shall be further subject to the approval of counsel for the Company with respect to such compliance.
Legal Compliance
     9.11 . No Participant or other person shall have any claim of right to be granted an Award under the Plan. Neither the Plan nor any action taken hereunder shall be construed as giving any Participant any right to be retained in the service of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries.
No Right to Employment
     9.12 . Payments received by a Participant pursuant to the provisions of the Plan shall not be included in the determination of benefits under any pension, group insurance or other benefit plan applicable to the Participant which is maintained by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, except as may be provided under the terms of such plans or determined by the Board.
Awards Not Includable for Benefit Purposes
     9.13 . This Plan, and any agreement or determination shall be governed by the laws of the State of Maryland, regardless of principles of conflict of laws, except to the extent that the law of the State of Maryland specifically and mandatorily applies.
Governing Law
     9.14 . No rule of strict construction shall be implied against the Company, the Committee or any other person in the interpretation of any of the terms of the Plan, any Award granted under the Plan or any rule or procedure established by the Committee.
No Strict Construction
     9.15 . The captions (i.e., all Section headings) used in the Plan are for convenience only, do not constitute a part of the Plan, and shall not be deemed to limit, characterize or affect in any way any provisions of the Plan, and all provisions of the Plan shall be construed as if no captions had been used in the Plan.
Captions
     9.16 . Whenever possible, each provision in the Plan and every Award at any time granted under the Plan shall be interpreted in such manner as to be effective and valid under applicable law, but if any provision of the Plan or any Award at any time granted under the Plan shall be held to be prohibited by or invalid under applicable law, then (i) such provision shall be deemed amended to accomplish the objectives of the provision as originally written to the fullest extent permitted by law and (ii) all other provisions of the Plan, such Award and every other Award at any time granted under the Plan shall remain in full force and effect.
Severability
 
     9.17 .
Amendment and Termination
     (a) . The Board shall have complete power and authority to amend the Plan at any time; provided, that no termination or amendment of the Plan may, without the consent of the Participant to whom any Award shall theretofore have been granted under the Plan, materially adversely affect the right of such individual under such Award; and provided further, that no such alteration or amendment of the Plan shall, without approval by the stockholders of the Company (i) increase the total number of shares of Common Stock which may be issued or delivered under the Plan, (ii) increase the total number of shares which may be covered by Awards to any Participant, or (iii) change the minimum Option Exercise Price or base price of a Stock Appreciation Right or otherwise reprice an outstanding Award.
Amendment
     (b) . The Board shall have the right and the power to terminate the Plan at any time. No Award shall be granted under the Plan after the termination of the Plan, but the termination of the Plan shall not have any other effect and any Award outstanding at the time of the termination of the Plan may be exercised after termination of the Plan at any time prior to the expiration date of such Award to the same extent such Award would have been exercisable had the Plan not been terminated. A termination of the Plan will comply with Section 409A of the Code, its corresponding Treasury regulations and related guidance.
Termination
     9.18 . The Plan is intended to comply with applicable law. Without limiting the foregoing, the Plan is intended to comply with the applicable requirements of Section 409A of the Code and its corresponding regulations and related guidance, and shall be administered in accordance with Section 409A of the Code to the extent it applies to the Plan. To the extent that any provision of the Plan or an Award Agreement would cause a conflict with the requirements of Section 409A of the Code or would cause the administration of the Plan to fail to satisfy the requirements of Section 409A of the Code, such provision shall be deemed null and void to the extent permitted by applicable law.
Compliance with Law

Exhibit 10.4
Adopted March 4, 2004 Approved by Stockholders May 13, 2004 Amended May 17, 2007
     1. . The purpose of this Plan is to aid the Company in attracting and retaining Non-Employee Directors by encouraging and enabling the acquisition of a financial interest in the Company by Non-Employee Directors through the issuance of Shares with respect to their services as a director of the Company. This Plan shall supersede and replace the Company's policy of granting $12,000 worth of the Company's common stock to each Non-Employee Director annually as part of their director compensation.
Purpose And Effective Date
     This Plan shall become effective upon its approval by the stockholders of the Company, but issuance of Shares shall not be made until the receipt of any required regulatory approvals.
     2. .
Definitions
     As used in this Plan:
     2.1. The term "" means the Board of Directors of the Company.
Board
     2.2. The term "" means Allegheny Energy, Inc., a Maryland corporation.
Company
     2.3. The term "" means any person who is elected or appointed to the Board and who is not, as of the date eligibility for participation in this Plan is determined, an employee of the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
Non-Employee Director
     2.4. The term "" means March 31, June 30, September 30 and December 31 of each Year.
Payment Date
     2.5. The term "" means this 2004 Non-Employee Director Stock Plan, as it may be amended from time to time.
Plan
     2.6. The term "" means the three (3) month period preceding a Payment Date.
Quarter
     2.7. The term "" means a share of common stock, $1.25 par value, of the Company.
Share
     2.8. The term "" has the meaning set forth in Section 4.1.
Share Payment
     2.9. The term "" means the calendar year.
Year
     3. . Participation in this Plan is limited to Non-Employee Directors.
Eligibility
     4. .
Share Payment
     4.1. Subject to Section 4.2, on March 31, 2004, and on each Payment Date thereafter, the Company shall issue to each person then serving as a Non-Employee Director (and to any person whose services as a Non-Employee Director terminated during the Quarter as a result of death or disability) such number of Shares as shall be determined by the Board from time to time (the "Share Payment"), not to exceed one thousand (1,000) shares per quarter (the "Quarterly Limit"), as compensation for services performed as a Non-Employee Director during the Quarter.
     4.2. No Share Payments will be made under this Plan until after the approval of this Plan by the stockholders of the Company and the receipt of any required regulatory approvals; , , that
provided
however
 
Adopted March 4, 2004 Approved by Stockholders May 13, 2004 Amended May 17, 2007
any Share Payments otherwise payable but for this Section 4.2 will be paid within 10 business days of the Company's receipt of the last of any such required approvals.
     4.3. As soon as practicable after each Payment Date, the Company shall cause to be issued and delivered to each Non-Employee Director a stock certificate, registered in the name of such Non-Employee Director, evidencing the Share Payment pursuant to this Plan. Each such stock certificate will bear an appropriate legend with respect to restrictions on transferability, if applicable.
     The Share Payment may be effected on a noncertificated basis, to the extent not prohibited by applicable law or the rules or requirements of any applicable stock exchange.
     4.4. Non-Employee Directors shall not be deemed for any purpose to be, or have any rights as, stockholders of the Company with respect to any Shares awarded under this Plan except if, as and when Shares are issued and then only from the date of issuance of such Shares. No adjustment shall be made for dividends or distributions or other rights for which the record date is prior to the date of issuance.
     5. . Subject to adjustment as provided below, an aggregate of 300,000 Shares shall be available for issuance under the Plan. The Shares to be issued under the Plan may be made available from authorized but unissued Shares or Shares held in the treasury. Any change in the number of outstanding Shares of the Company occurring through stock splits, combination of Shares, recapitalization, stock dividends, or other similar changes in the Company's capital stock after the adoption of Plan shall be appropriately reflected in an increase or decrease in the amount of the Quarterly Limit and the aggregate number of Shares available for issuance under the Plan. The Board shall have the power and sole discretion to determine the amount of the adjustment to be made in each case.
Shares Subject To The Plan
     6. .
Amendment And Discontinuance
     6.1. The Board may, without further action by the stockholders, amend this Plan or condition or modify Shares issued under this Plan (a) to conform this Plan to securities or other laws, or rules, regulations or regulatory interpretations thereof, applicable to this Plan, or (b) to comply with stock exchange rules or requirements.
     6.2. Subject to Section 6.4, the Board may from time to time amend this Plan, or any provision thereof, without further action of the Company's stockholders, except that:
     (a) No amendment may affect a Non-Employee Director's rights with respect to any Shares issued under this Plan prior to such amendment without such Non-Employee Director's consent.
     (b) No amendment may change the number of Shares available for issuance under the Plan or increase the Quarterly Limit without the approval of the stockholders of the Company.
     (c) This Section 6.2 may not be amended.
     6.3 The Board may suspend or discontinue this Plan in whole or in part, but any such suspension or discontinuance shall not affect Share Payments under this Plan prior thereto.
     6.4 Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Section 6, any amendment to this Plan must comply with all applicable legal requirements including without limitation, compliance with securities, tax, or other laws, or rules, regulations or regulatory interpretations thereof, applicable to this Plan, or the requirements of the exchanges on which Shares may, at the time, be listed, and any requirements of other governmental or regulatory authorities (including, without limitation, any requirements for stockholder approval).
 
Adopted March 4, 2004 Approved by Stockholders May 13, 2004 Amended May 17, 2007
     7. . No Share Payments shall be made unless such Share Payments comply with all applicable legal requirements including without limitation, compliance with the provisions of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935, as amended, the requirements of the exchanges on which Shares may, at the time, be listed, and any requirements of other governmental or regulatory authorities.
Compliance With Applicable Legal Requirements
     8. . Notwithstanding Section 4 or any other provision in this Plan to the contrary, each Non-Employee Director shall have the right to elect to defer the entire amount of the Share Payments otherwise payable to him in accordance with the Allegheny Energy, Inc. Revised Plan for Deferral of Compensation of Directors or any successor plan, as long as any such plan shall remain in effect.
Deferral Election
     9. . Subject to all applicable legal requirements, including without limitation, compliance with securities, tax or other laws, or rules, regulations or regulatory interpretations thereof, applicable to the Plan, or the requirements of the exchanges on which Shares may, at the time, be listed, and any requirements of other governmental or regulatory authorities (including, without limitation, any requirements for stockholder approval), the Plan shall be administered by the Board, which shall have the sole authority to construe and interpret the terms and provisions of the Plan. The Board shall maintain records and disburse payments hereunder. The Board's interpretations, determinations, regulations and calculations shall be final and binding on all persons and parties concerned. The Board may adopt, amend and rescind such rules and regulations as it deems necessary, desirable or appropriate in administering the Plan, and the Board may act at a meeting, in a written action without meeting or by having actions otherwise taken by a member of the Board pursuant to a delegation of duties from the Board. The determination of the Board as to any disputed questions arising under the Plan, including questions of construction and interpretation, shall be final, binding and conclusive upon all persons.
Administration

Exhibit 10.5
   1. Name and Purpose. Allegheny Energy, Inc. (the "Company") originally established the Revised Plan for Deferral of Compensation of Directors as of December 2, 1993 (the "Plan"). The purpose of the Plan is to provide a means for the elective deferral of fees payable to non-employee directors of the Company. This amended and restated version of the Plan shall become effective upon October 5, 2006.
   2. Participation. Each member of the Company's Board of Directors (the "Board") who is not an employee of the Company or any subsidiary of the Company (each a "Non-Employee Director") may participate in the Plan.
   3. Deferral Elections.
     3.1 Cash and Common Stock Deferral Elections. Pursuant to the terms of the Plan, a Non-Employee Director may make an election to defer all or a portion of (i) any retainer fee payable in cash with respect to the Non-Employee Director's service on the Board, (ii) the Board meeting fees and committee meeting fees payable in cash with respect to the Non-Employee Director's attendance at such meetings, (iii) awards of shares of common stock of the Company ("Common Stock") made to the Non-Employee Director pursuant to the terms of the Company's Non-Employee Director Stock Plan (the "Stock Plan"), and (iv) other cash fees paid to Non-Employee Directors (collectively, "Fees"). A Non-Employee Director may make a separate deferral election with respect to the portion of the Fees payable in cash and the portion of the Fees payable in Common Stock.
     3.2 Timing and Effect of Elections. Each initial deferral election and each change to (or revocation of) an existing deferral election shall be made by the submission of a written election form to the Secretary of the Company (or its authorized delegate) as follows:
          (a) Annual Deferral Election. By December 31 of any calendar year, each Non-Employee Director may make a deferral election that will be given effect with respect to Fees earned by the Non-Employee Director for the succeeding calendar year. If a Non-Employee Director does not make a deferral election by December 31, no Fees will be deferred for the succeeding calendar year.
          (b) Deferral Election for New Non-Employee Directors. Each Non-Employee Director first elected or appointed to the Board during a calendar year may make a deferral election within 30 days of commencing service as a Non-Employee Director. This election will be given effect with respect to Fees earned by the Non-Employee Director after the date of the election.
 
          (c) Duration, Change or Revocation of Deferral Election. A Non-Employee Director may change or revoke an annual deferral election at any time before the calendar year for which the election will be given effect. Once a calendar year for which an annual election will be given effect begins, a Non-Employee Director's election shall be irrevocable. Once made, a new Non-Employee Director may not change or revoke a deferral election made during a calendar year. Any deferral election shall apply only to the deferrals for the calendar year for which the election is made and shall not apply to Fees earned in subsequent calendar years.
   4. Maintenance of Deferral Accounts.
     4.1 Deferral Account for Fees Payable in Common Stock. The Company shall establish and maintain a recordkeeping deferral account (the "Stock Account") for each Non-Employee Director who elects to defer a portion of the Fees attributable to grants of Common Stock under the Stock Plan for a particular calendar year. The Non-Employee Director's Stock Account shall be credited with the number of shares of Common Stock (but not actual shares of Common Stock) deferred by the Non-Employee Director at the end of each calendar quarter. In addition, at the end of each calendar quarter, the Stock Account shall be credited with Dividend Equivalents (as defined below), if any.
     4.2 Deferral Accounts for Fees Payable in Cash. The Company shall establish and maintain recordkeeping deferral accounts for each Non-Employee Director who elects to defer a portion of the Fees payable in cash as follows:
          (a) Cash Deferral Account. A Non-Employee Director may elect to have all or a portion of the Fees payable to him in cash for a particular calendar year credited to a cash deferral account (the "Cash Deferral Account"). Any such amounts shall be credited to the Cash Deferral Account on the 15th of the calendar month following the date the Fees otherwise would have been paid to the Non-Employee Director, or if the 15th is a non-business day, the next following business day of the month. In addition, at the end of each calendar quarter, the Cash Deferral Account shall be credited with interest (compounded monthly based on the average daily outstanding balance) at a rate equivalent to the prime rate of interest used by a majority of top 25 insured U.S. chartered commercial banks as published by the Federal Reserve Board in the Federal Reserve Statistical Release, H. 15 Selected Interest Rates (Daily), on the first business day of such calendar quarter.
          (b) Stock Unit Account. A Non-Employee Director may elect to have all or a portion of the Fees payable to him in cash credited to a stock unit account (the "Stock Unit Account"). Any such amounts shall be credited to the Stock Unit Account on the 15th of the calendar month following the date the Fees otherwise would have been paid to the Non-Employee Director or if the 15th is a non-business day, the next following business day of the month. Any amount credited to the Stock Unit Account shall be deemed to be invested in a number of units of Common Stock obtained by dividing such amount by the Market Value Per Share (as defined below) as of the day such amounts are credited to the Stock Unit Account. Further, the Stock Unit Account shall be credited on the last day of each calendar quarter with Dividend Equivalents, if any.
 
     4.3 Election Rules. Any election made by a Non-Employee Director under this Section 4 shall be subject to the same timing and effect requirements that apply to deferral elections as set forth in Section 3.2. Further, any election made by a Non-Employee Director under this Section 4 shall apply only to the deferrals for the calendar year for which the election is made and, as such, a Non-Employee Director shall not be permitted to make an election under this Section 4 for amounts deferred in a prior calendar year, other than that described in Section 6.1.
     4.4 Dividend Equivalents. Each Non-Employee Director who elects to defer amounts to his Stock and/or Stock Unit Account shall also be entitled to receive additional credits for each dividend declared by the Company until such time as his Stock and/or Stock Unit Account is distributed to him ("Dividend Equivalents"). The amount of any such Dividend Equivalents shall be equal to: (1) in the case of a cash dividend or a dividend paid in property (other than shares of Common Stock), the number of shares or units of Common Stock determined by dividing (A) the amount of any cash dividend (or the fair market value of a dividend paid in property, other than a dividend paid in Common Stock) which the Non-Employee Director would have received if on the payment date for such dividend the Non-Employee Director had been the owner of record of a number of shares of Common Stock (or units) then credited to the Non-Employee Director's Stock and/or Stock Unit Accounts by (B) the Market Value Per Share (as defined below) as of such payment date; and (2) in the case of a stock dividend, the number of full and fractional shares of Common Stock which the Non-Employee Director would have received if on the payment date for a dividend which is to be paid in Common Stock, the Non-Employee Director had been the owner of record of a number of shares of Common Stock (or units) then credited to the Non-Employee Director's Stock and/or Stock Unit Accounts.
     4.5 Definition of Market Value Per Share. For purposes of the Plan, the term "Market Value Per Share" shall mean the average of the highest and the lowest sale price per share on the date of reference for shares of Common Stock as reported on the New York Stock Exchange on such date (or, if such date shall not be a business day, the next preceding day which shall be a business day). If no sale occurs on such date, the Market Value Per Share shall be determined, in the manner described above, as of the first preceding business day on which a sale occurs.
     4.6 Changes in Capitalization. A Non-Employee Director's Stock Account and Stock Unit Account shall be appropriately adjusted for any change in the Common Stock by reason of any stock dividend, stock split, combination or exchange of shares, merger, consolidation or other change in capitalization with a similar substantive effect on the Common Stock and the Plan.
   5. Beneficiary Designation. Each Non-Employee Director may, at any time, designate a "Beneficiary" or "Beneficiaries" to receive amounts credited to the Non-Employee Director's deferral accounts in the event of the Non-Employee Director's death. A Non-Employee Director may make an initial Beneficiary designation, or change an existing Beneficiary designation, by completing and signing a Beneficiary designation form and submitting it to the Secretary of the Company (or its authorized delegate). Upon receipt by the Secretary of the Company of a Non-Employee Director's Beneficiary designation form, all
 
Beneficiary designations previously filed shall automatically be canceled. In the absence of an effective Beneficiary designation, amounts credited to a Non-Employee Director's deferral accounts as of his death shall be paid to the person(s) legally entitled to such amount under the Non-Employee Director's will or, if none, to the Non-Employee Director's estate.
   6. Distribution of Deferrals.
     6.1 Distribution Election. At the time that a Non-Employee Director makes an election to defer Fees for a particular calendar year as described in Section 3, the Non-Employee Director shall make an irrevocable distribution election to have the Fees deferred for such calendar year (and any interest or Dividend Equivalents accrued thereon) distributed to him in a single lump sum payment as soon as administratively practicable after: (i) the first day of a calendar year that is no less than 12 months and a day from the date of the distribution election, or (ii) the date that the Non-Employee Director terminates his service with the Company. In the event that a Non-Employee Director fails to make the election provided in the preceding sentence, such Non-Employee Director shall be deemed to have made an election to receive the payment described in clause (ii) of the preceding sentence. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in accordance with the special transition relief set forth in Proposed Treasury Regulations issued pursuant to Section 409 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"), and no later than December 31, 2006, each Non-Employee Director shall be permitted to make a new distribution election to have all amounts previously deferred under the Plan on his behalf (except for amounts that otherwise are payable in 2006) distributed to him in a single lump sum payment as soon as administratively practicable after: (y) the first day of any future calendar year, or (z) the date that the Non-Employee Director terminates his service with the Company. In the event that a Non-Employee Director fails to make the election provided in the preceding sentence, such Non-Employee Director shall be deemed to have made an election to receive the payment described in clause (z) of the preceding sentence.
     6.2 Form and Amount of Distribution. Any distribution of Fees deferred to a Non-Employee Director's Cash Deferral Account for a particular calendar year shall be paid in cash and the amount of such distribution shall be equal to the Fees deferred for such calendar year and any interest accrued thereon up to the distribution date elected by the Non-Employee Director in accordance with Section 6.1. Any distribution of Fees deferred to a Non-Employee Director's Stock Unit Account for a particular calendar year shall be paid in cash and the amount of such distribution shall be equal to (i) the number of units credited to the Stock Unit Account for Fees deferred by the Non-Employee Director for such calendar year (and any Dividend Equivalents credited with respect to such units) as of the distribution date elected by the Non-Employee Director in accordance with Section 6.1, multiplied by (ii) the Market Value Per Share as of the distribution date elected by the Non-Employee Director in accordance with Section 6.1. Any distribution of Fees deferred to a Non-Employee Director's Stock Account for a particular calendar year shall be paid in the form of shares of Common Stock from the Company's Stock Plan (except that any fraction of a share of Common Stock shall be paid in cash) and the number of shares of Common Stock paid shall be equal to the number of shares of Common Stock credited to the Stock Account for Fees deferred by the Non-Employee Director for such calendar year (and any Dividend Equivalents credited with respect to such shares).
 
     6.3 Death. If a Non-Employee Director should die before full payment of the balance in his accounts, the remaining balance shall be paid in a lump sum to his or her designated Beneficiaries or his estate in accordance with Section 5. Such payment shall be made within the 60-day period following the date of a Non-Employee Director's death.
   7. Unfunded Status of the Plan. A Non-Employee Director shall not have any interest in any amount credited to his deferral accounts until it is distributed in accordance with the Plan. Distributions under the Plan shall be made only from the general assets of the Company. All amounts deferred under the Plan shall remain the sole property of the Company, subject to the claims of its general creditors and available for its use for whatever purposes are desired. With respect to amounts deferred, a Non-Employee Director is a general creditor of the Company and the obligation of the Company hereunder is purely contractual and shall not be funded or secured in any way.
   8. Administration. Subject to all applicable legal requirements, including without limitation, compliance with securities, tax or other laws, or rules, regulations or regulatory interpretations thereof, applicable to the Plan, the Plan shall be administered by the Board (or Board Committee as designated by the Board), which shall have the sole authority to construe and interpret the terms and provisions of the Plan. The Board (or its authorized delegate) shall maintain records and disburse payments or shall cause such records to be maintained and payments to be disbursed. The Board's interpretations, determinations, regulations and calculations shall be final and binding on all persons and parties concerned. The Board may adopt, amend and rescind such rules and regulations as it deems necessary, desirable or appropriate in administering the Plan, and the Board may act at a meeting, in a written action without meeting or by having actions otherwise taken by a member of the Board pursuant to a delegation of duties from the Board. The determination of the Board as to any disputed questions arising under the Plan, including questions of construction and interpretation, shall be final, binding and conclusive upon all persons.
   9. Amendment and Termination. The Plan may, at any time, be amended, modified or terminated by the Board. No amendment, modification or termination shall, without the consent of a Non-Employee Director, adversely affect such Non-Employee Director's rights with respect to amounts accrued under his or her deferral accounts.
   10. Miscellaneous Provisions.
     10.1 Nothing contained herein shall be construed as conferring upon a Non-Employee Director the right to continue in such capacity.
     10.2 The rights and obligations created hereunder shall be binding on a Non-Employee Director's heirs, executors and administrators and on the successors and assigns of the Company.
     10.3 The provisions of the Plan shall be construed and applied under the laws of the State of New York, without regard to its conflict of laws principles.
 
     10.4 If any provision of the Plan shall be held invalid or unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not effect any other provisions hereof and the Plan shall be construed and enforced as if such provisions had not been included.
     10.5 The headings and captions herein are provided for convenience only, and shall not be construed as part of the Plan, and shall not be employed in the construction of the Plan.
     10.6 Any benefit payable to or for the benefit of a payee who is a minor, an incompetent person, or is otherwise incapable of receipting therefor shall be deemed paid when paid to such person's guardian or to the party providing, or a reasonably appearing to provide, the care for such person, and such payment shall fully discharge the Company, the Board and all other parties with respect thereto.
     10.7 The rights of a Non-Employee Director to the payment of amounts credited to his or her deferral account shall not be assigned, transferred, pledged or encumbered or be subject in any manner to alienation or anticipation. A Non-Employee Director may not borrow against amounts credited to the Non-Employee Director's account and such amounts shall not be subject in any manner to anticipation, alienation, sale, transfer, assignment, pledge, encumbrance, change, garnishment, execution or levy of any kind, whether voluntary or involuntary, prior to distribution.
     10.8 The terms of the Plan are intended to, and shall be interpreted and applied so as to, comply in all respects with the provisions of Section 409A of the Code and its corresponding regulations and related guidance to the extent it applies to the Plan. Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan to the contrary, to the extent applicable, deferrals and distributions under the Plan may only be made in a manner and upon an event permitted by Code Section 409A. To the extent that any provision of the Plan would cause a conflict with the requirements of Code Section 409A or would cause the administration of the Plan to fail to satisfy the requirements of Code Section 409A, such provision shall be deemed null and void to the extent permitted by applicable law. Further, the Board shall have the authority to amend the Plan or take such other actions as the Board determines is necessary to comply with the requirements of Code Section 409A and its corresponding regulations and related guidance.

     Akron, Ohio  FirstEnergy Corp. (NYSE: FE) announced that its merger with Allegheny Energy, Inc. (NYSE: AYE), has closed, effective today, marking the beginning of combined operations. This follows the company's acceptance of conditions included in yesterday's Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission approval.
     "We are pleased to have completed our merger and look forward to delivering to our customers, shareholders and employees the significant benefits of a larger, stronger company," said President and Chief Executive Officer Anthony J. Alexander.
     The company also announced that it will locate regional headquarters for Maryland and West Virginia utility operations in Washington County, Md., and Fairmont, W.Va., respectively. The current headquarters building for Allegheny Energy in Greensburg, Pa., will become the regional headquarters for West Penn Power utility operations.
     These moves underscore the company's focus on regional operations. In addition, the company plans to reintroduce the utility operating names  Mon Power, Potomac Edison and West Penn Power  to Allegheny Power customers.
     The regional headquarters for Potomac Edison's Maryland operations will be located in Allegheny Power's existing central distribution center in Washington County. This facility was chosen because it is centrally located, can accommodate the Potomac
     Edison management organization and is already equipped with the company's information technology infrastructure, a significant cost savings. Newly appointed president of Maryland Operations, James V. Fakult, and his staff will operate from there.
     West Virginia regional headquarters will be located in the newly constructed transmission operations center in Fairmont. This facility was designed to accommodate additional functions, is conveniently located near other company facilities including the Fairmont Call Center, and has updated information technology infrastructure. James R. Haney, president of West Virginia Operations, and his staff will be located there.
     West Penn Power, Allegheny Energy's Pennsylvania utility company, will remain headquartered in Greensburg, and regional president, David W. McDonald, and his staff will be located there.
     FirstEnergy, which has its corporate headquarters in Akron, Ohio, currently has regional utility headquarters in Akron, Cleveland and Toledo, Ohio; Erie and Reading, Pa.; and Morristown, N.J.
     In accordance with the dividend synchronization plan announced in December, FirstEnergy shareholders of record as of February 7, 2011, will receive a pro rata dividend of $0.5255 per share, payable March 1, 2011. In addition, FirstEnergy shareholders of record as of the close of business February 25, 2011, will receive a pro rata dividend of $0.0245 per share, payable March 7, 2011. Allegheny Energy shareholders as of the close of business on February 24, 2011, will receive a prorated final dividend of $0.12045 per share, payable March 11, 2011.
     FirstEnergy is a diversified energy company dedicated to safety, reliability and operational excellence. Its ten electric distribution companies comprise the nation's largest investor-owned electric system. Its diverse generating fleet features non-emitting nuclear, scrubbed baseload coal, natural gas, and pumped-storage hydro and other renewables, and has a total generating capacity of approximately 23,000 megawatts.
 
     : This news release includes forward-looking statements based on information currently available to management. Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. These statements include declarations regarding management's intents, beliefs and current expectations. These statements typically contain, but are not limited to, the terms "anticipate," "potential," "expect," "believe," "estimate" and similar words. Forward-looking statements involve estimates, assumptions, known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Actual results may differ materially due to the speed and nature of increased competition in the electric utility industry, the impact of the regulatory process on the pending matters in the various states in which we do business (including, but not limited to, proceedings related to rates and matters with respect to the Trans-Allegheny Interstate Line and Potomac-Appalachian Transmission Highline projects), business and regulatory impacts from American Transmission Systems, Incorporated's realignment into PJM Interconnection, L.L.C., economic or weather conditions affecting future sales and margins, changes in markets for energy services, changing energy and commodity market prices and availability, financial derivative reforms that could increase our liquidity needs and collateral costs, replacement power costs being higher than anticipated or inadequately hedged, the continued ability of FirstEnergy's regulated utilities to collect transition and other costs, operation and maintenance costs being higher than anticipated, other legislative and regulatory changes, and revised environmental requirements, including possible greenhouse gas emission and coal combustion residual regulations, the potential impacts of any laws, rules or regulations that ultimately replace the Clean Air Interstate Rules, the uncertainty of the timing and amounts of the capital expenditures needed to complete, among other things, the Trans-Allegheny Interstate Line and Potomac-Appalachian Transmission Highline projects, the uncertainty of the timing and amounts of the capital expenditures needed to resolve any New Source Review litigation or other potential similar regulatory initiatives or rulemakings (including that such expenditures could result in our decision to shut down or idle certain generating units), adverse regulatory or legal decisions and outcomes (including, but not limited to, the revocation of necessary licenses or operating permits and oversight by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission), adverse legal decisions and outcomes related to Metropolitan Edison Company's and Pennsylvania Electric Company's transmission service charge appeal at the Commonwealth Court of Pennsylvania, any impact resulting from the receipt by Signal Peak of the Department of Labor's notice of a potential pattern of violations at Bull Mountain Mine No. 1, the continuing availability of generating units and their ability to operate at or near full capacity, the ability to comply with applicable state and federal reliability standards and energy efficiency mandates, changes in customers' demand for power, including but not limited to, changes resulting from the implementation of state and federal energy efficiency mandates, the ability to accomplish or realize anticipated benefits from strategic goals (including employee workforce initiatives), the ability to improve electric commodity margins and the impact of, among other factors, the increased cost of coal and coal transportation on such margins and the ability to experience growth in the distribution business, the changing market conditions that could affect the value of assets held in FirstEnergy's nuclear decommissioning trusts, pension trusts and other trust funds, and cause FirstEnergy to make additional contributions sooner, or in amounts that are larger than currently anticipated, the ability to access the public securities and other capital and credit markets in accordance with FirstEnergy's financing plan and the cost of such capital, changes in general economic conditions affecting the company, the state of the capital and credit markets affecting the company, interest rates and any actions taken by credit rating agencies that could negatively affect FirstEnergy's access to financing or its costs and increase its requirements to post additional collateral to support outstanding commodity positions, letters of credit and other financial guarantees, the continuing uncertainty of the national and regional economy and its impact on the company's major industrial and commercial customers, issues concerning the soundness of financial institutions and counterparties with which FirstEnergy does business, issues arising from the recently completed merger of FirstEnergy and Allegheny Energy, Inc. and the ongoing coordination of their combined operations, including FirstEnergy's ability to maintain relationships with customers, employees or suppliers as well as the ability to successfully integrate the businesses and realize cost savings and any other synergies and the risk that the credit ratings of the combined company or its subsidiaries may be different from what the companies expect and the risks and other factors discussed from time to time in FirstEnergy's Securities and Exchange Commission filings, and other similar factors. Dividends declared from time to time on FirstEnergy's common stock during any annual period may in aggregate vary from the indicated amount due to circumstances considered by FirstEnergy's Board of Directors at the time of the actual declarations. The foregoing review of factors should not be construed as exhaustive. New factors emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for management to predict all such factors, nor assess the impact of any such factor on FirstEnergy's business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. The Registrant expressly disclaims any current intention to update any forward-looking statements contained herein as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
Forward-Looking Statements


