FILE:FE/FE-8K-20120501084602.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2.):
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On May 1, 2012, FirstEnergy Corp. issued two public documents regarding first quarter 2012 earnings, which are attached as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 hereto and incorporated by reference. FirstEnergy's Press Release and Consolidated Report to the Financial Community contain non-GAAP* financial measures. Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, FirstEnergy has provided quantitative reconciliations within the Press Release and Consolidated Report to the Financial Community of the non-GAAP* financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.  The information in the Press Release and the Consolidated Report to the Financial Community and the information contained herein under Items 2.02 and 9.01 shall not be deemed filed for purposes of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, nor shall such information and Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
The Press Release and Consolidated Report to the Financial Community contain references to non-GAAP* financial measures including, among others, basic non-GAAP earnings per share, which are not calculated in accordance with GAAP because they exclude the impact of "special items." Special items reflect the impact on earnings of events that are not routine or that may be related to discontinued businesses. Management believes presenting normalized earnings calculated in this manner provides useful information to investors in evaluating the ongoing results of FirstEnergy's businesses and assists investors in comparing FirstEnergys operating performance to the operating performance of other companies in the energy sector. Management believes presenting this non-GAAP* measure provides useful information to investors in assessing FirstEnergy's normalized operating performance. FirstEnergy's management frequently references this non-GAAP* financial measure in its decision-making, using it to facilitate historical and ongoing performance comparisons as well as comparisons to the performance of peer companies.
The non-GAAP* information presented in the Press Release and Consolidated Report to the Financial Community should be considered in addition to, and not as a substitute for, the most directly comparable financial measure prepared in accordance with GAAP. Also, the non-GAAP* financial measure may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other entities.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
*This Form 8-K contains non-GAAP financial measures. Generally, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a company's historical or future financial performance, financial position, or cash flows that either excludes or includes amounts, or is subject to adjustment that has the effect of excluding or including amounts, that are not normally excluded or included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, or GAAP.
 
 
2
 
 
This Form 8-K includes forward-looking statements based on information currently available to management. Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. These statements include declarations regarding management's intents, beliefs and current expectations. These statements typically contain, but are not limited to, the terms anticipate, potential, expect, believe, estimate and similar words. Forward-looking statements involve estimates, assumptions, known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Actual results may differ materially due to: the speed and nature of increased competition in the electric utility industry,the impact of the regulatory process on the pending matters before FERC and in the various states in which we do business including, but not limited to, matters related to rates, the status of the PATH project in light of PJM's direction to suspend work on the project pending review of its planning process, its re-evaluation of the need for the project and the uncertainty of the timing and amounts of any related capital expenditures, the uncertainties of various cost recovery and cost allocation issues resulting from ATSI's realignment into PJM, economic or weather conditions affecting future sales and margins, changes in markets for energy services, changing energy and commodity market prices and availability, financial derivative reforms that could increase our liquidity needs and collateral costs, the continued ability of our regulated utilities to collect transition and other costs, operation and maintenance costs being higher than anticipated, other legislative and regulatory changes, and revised environmental requirements, including possible GHG emission, water intake and coal combustion residual regulations, the potential impacts of any laws, rules or regulations that ultimately replace CAIR, including CSAPR which was stayed by the courts on December 30, 2011, and the effects of the EPA's MATS rules, the uncertainty of the timing and amounts of the capital expenditures that may arise in connection with any litigation, including NSR litigation or potential regulatory initiatives or rulemakings (including that such expenditures could result in our decision to shut down or idle certain generating units), the uncertainties associated with our plan to retire our older unscrubbed regulated and competitive fossil units, including the impact on vendor commitments, and PJM's review of our plans for, and the timing of, those retirements, adverse regulatory or legal decisions and outcomes with respect to our nuclear operations (including, but not limited to the revocation or non-renewal of necessary licenses, approvals or operating permits by the NRC or as a result of the incident at Japan's Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Plant), issues that could result from our continuing evaluation of the indications of cracking in the Davis-Besse Plant shield building imposed by the CAL issued by the NRC, adverse legal decisions and outcomes related to ME's and PN's ability to recover certain transmission costs through their transmission service charge riders, the continuing availability of generating units and changes in their ability to operate at or near full capacity, replacement power costs being higher than anticipated or inadequately hedged, the ability to comply with applicable state and federal reliability standards and energy efficiency mandates, changes in customers' demand for power, including but not limited to, changes resulting from the implementation of state and federal energy efficiency mandates, the ability to accomplish or realize anticipated benefits from strategic goalsour ability to improve electric commodity margins and the impact of, among other factors, the increased cost of fuel and fuel transportation on such margins, the ability to experience growth in the distribution business, changing market conditions that could affect the value of assets held in our NDTs, pension trusts and other trust funds, and cause us and our subsidiaries to make additional contributions sooner, or in amounts that are larger than currently anticipated, the impact of changes to material accounting policies, the ability to access the public securities and other capital and credit markets in accordance with our financing plans, the cost of such capital and overall condition of the capital and credit markets affecting us and our subsidiaries, changes in general economic conditions affecting us and our subsidiaries, interest rates and any actions taken by credit rating agencies that could negatively affect us and our subsidiaries' access to financing, increased costs thereof, and increase requirements to post additional collateral to support outstanding commodity positions, LOCs and other financial guarantees, the state of the national and regional economy and its impact on our major industrial and commercial customers, issues concerning the soundness of domestic and foreign financial institutions and counterparties with which we do business, the risks and other factors discussed from time to time in our SEC filings, and other similar factors. Dividends declared from time to time on FE's common stock during any annual period may in the aggregate vary from the indicated amount due to circumstances considered by FE's Board of Directors at the time of the actual declarations. A security rating is not a recommendation to buy or hold securities and is subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating agency. Each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. The foregoing review of factors should not be construed as exhaustive. New factors emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for management to predict all such factors, nor assess the impact of any such factor on FirstEnergy's business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. The registrants expressly disclaim any current intention to update, except as required by law, any forward-looking statements contained herein as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Forward-Looking Statements:
 
,
 
 
 
 
 
 
3
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
May 1, 2012
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
Akron, Ohio  FirstEnergy Corp. (NYSE: FE) today announced first quarter 2012 basic and diluted earnings of $0.82 per share of common stock on a non-GAAP* basis.  This compares to basic and diluted non-GAAP earnings of $0.75 per share of common stock in the first quarter of 2011.
On a GAAP basis, first quarter 2012 basic and diluted earnings were $0.73 per share of common stock on net income of $306 million and revenue of $4.1 billion.  First quarter 2011 basic and diluted earnings were $0.15 per share of common stock on net income of $52 million, with revenue of $3.6 billion.  Last years results included charges relating to the closing of the merger with Allegheny Energy, which reduced earnings by $0.43 per basic share.
 
While our first quarter results were impacted by unseasonably warm weather, we are pleased with the continued success of our retail strategy, and improving economic conditions  particularly within the Ohio industrial sector, said FirstEnergy President and Chief Executive Officer Anthony J. Alexander.  Based on our continued confidence in our business strategy, we are reaffirming our 2012 and 2013 non-GAAP earnings guidance.
 
 
 
 
 
First quarter 2012 non-GAAP results benefited from the earnings contribution from the Allegheny Energy companies, lower operating costs, and reduced interest expense.   Results were negatively affected by extremely mild winter weather, which resulted in lower distribution deliveries and contributed to lower commodity margins.
 
Distribution deliveries, excluding Allegheny Energy deliveries, decreased 4 percent in the quarter due to unseasonable weather compared to the same period of 2011.  Residential sales decreased 8 percent, and commercial deliveries decreased 2 percent. Usage by industrial customers was relatively flat, although industrial activity continues to improve in Ohio.
Commodity margin for FirstEnergy Solutions decreased compared to the first quarter of 2011, as higher retail sales resulting from expanding our business and customer base, were offset by increases in transmission expenses, net fuel and purchased power costs, net capacity expenses, lower wholesale sales, a reduction in sales of Renewable Energy Credits, and weather.
FirstEnergys Consolidated Report to the Financial Community  which provides highlights on company developments and financial results for the first quarter of 2012  is posted on the companys Investor Information website  . To access the report, click on
www.firstenergycorp.com/ir
First Quarter 2012 Consolidated Report to the Financial Community.
           The company invites investors, customers and other interested parties to listen to a live Internet webcast of its teleconference for financial analysts at 1:00 p.m. Eastern Daylight Time today.  FirstEnergy management will present an overview of the companys financial results for the quarter, followed by a question-and-answer session.  The teleconference can be accessed on the companys website by selecting the link.  The webcast will be archived on the website.
Q1 2012 Earnings Conference Call
FirstEnergy is a diversified energy company dedicated to safety, reliability and operational excellence.  Its 10 electric distribution companies comprise the nations largest investor-owned electric system.  Its diverse generating fleet features non-emitting nuclear, scrubbed baseload coal, natural gas, and pumped-storage hydro and other renewables, and has a total generating capacity of nearly 23,000 megawatts.
(*)  This news release contains non-GAAP financial measures.  Generally, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a company's historical or future financial performance, financial position, or cash flows that either excludes or includes amounts that are not normally excluded or included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP).   These non-GAAP financial measures are intended to complement, and not considered as an alternative to, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure.  Also, the non-GAAP financial measures may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other entities.
 
 
 
2
 
 
 This news release includes forward-looking statements based on information currently available to management. Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. These statements include declarations regarding management's intents, beliefs and current expectations. These statements typically contain, but are not limited to, the terms "anticipate," "potential," "expect," "believe," "estimate" and similar words. Forward-looking statements involve estimates, assumptions, known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Actual results may differ materially due to: the speed and nature of increased competition in the electric utility industry, the impact of the regulatory process on the pending matters before FERC and in the various states in which we do business including, but not limited to, matters related to rates, the status of the PATH project in light of the PJM Interconnection, L.L.C., (PJM) direction to suspend work on the project pending review of its planning process, its re-evaluation of the need for the project and the uncertainty of the timing and amounts of any related capital expenditures, business and regulatory impacts from ATSI's realignment into PJM, economic or weather conditions affecting future sales and margins, changes in markets for energy services, changing energy and commodity market prices and availability, financial derivative reforms that could increase our liquidity needs and collateral costs, the continued ability of FirstEnergy's regulated utilities to collect transition and other costs, operation and maintenance costs being higher than anticipated, other legislative and regulatory changes, and revised environmental requirements, including possible GHG emission, water intake and coal combustion residual regulations, the potential impacts of any laws, rules or regulations that ultimately replace CAIR, including CSAPR which was stayed by the courts on December 30, 2011, and the effects of the EPA's MATS rules, the uncertainty of the timing and amounts of the capital expenditures that may arise in connection with any litigation including NSR litigation or potential regulatory initiatives or rulemakings (including that such expenditures could result in our decision to shut down or idle certain generating units), the uncertainty associated with the company's plan to retire its older unscrubbed regulated and competitive fossil units, including the impact on vendor commitments and PJM's review of the company's plans, adverse regulatory or legal decisions and outcomes with respect to our nuclear operations (including, but not limited to the revocation or non-renewal of necessary licenses, approvals or operating permits by the NRC including as a result of the incident at Japan's Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Plant), issues that could result from our continuing investigation and analysis of the indications of cracking in the plant shield building at Davis-Besse, adverse legal decisions and outcomes related to Met-Ed's and Penelec's ability to recover certain transmission costs through their transmission service charge riders, the continuing availability of generating units and changes in their ability to operate at or near full capacity, replacement power costs being higher than anticipated or inadequately hedged, the ability to comply with applicable state and federal reliability standards and energy efficiency mandates, changes in customers' demand for power, including but not limited to, changes resulting from the implementation of state and federal energy efficiency mandates, the ability to accomplish or realize anticipated benefits from strategic goals, FirstEnergy's ability to improve electric commodity margins and the impact of, among other factors, the increased cost of fuel and fuel transportation on such margins, the ability to experience growth in the distribution business, the changing market conditions that could affect the value of assets held in FirstEnergy's NDTs, pension trusts and other trust funds, and cause FirstEnergy and its subsidiaries to make additional contributions sooner, or in amounts that are larger than currently anticipated, the impact of changes to material accounting policies, the ability to access the public securities and other capital and credit markets in accordance with FirstEnergy's financing plan, the cost of such capital and overall condition of the capital and credit markets affecting FirstEnergy and its subsidiaries, changes in general economic conditions affecting FirstEnergy and its subsidiaries, interest rates and any actions taken by credit rating agencies that could negatively affect FirstEnergy's and its subsidiaries' access to financing or their costs and increase requirements to post additional collateral to support outstanding commodity positions, LOCs and other financial guarantees, the continuing uncertainty of the national and regional economy and its impact on major industrial and commercial customers of FirstEnergy and its subsidiaries, issues concerning the soundness of financial institutions and counterparties with which FirstEnergy and its subsidiaries do business, issues arising from the completed merger of FirstEnergy and Allegheny Energy and the ongoing coordination of their combined operations including FirstEnergy's ability to maintain relationships with customers, employees and suppliers, as well as the ability to continue to successfully integrate the businesses and realize cost savings and other synergies, the risks and other factors discussed from time to time in FirstEnergy's and its applicable subsidiaries' SEC filings, and other similar factors. The foregoing review of factors should not be construed as exhaustive. New factors emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for management to predict all such factors, nor assess the impact of any such factor on FirstEnergy's business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. FirstEnergy expressly disclaims any current intention to update, except as required by law, any forward-looking statements contained herein as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Forward-Looking Statement:
 
3
 

 
Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1Q 2012 Results vs 1Q 2011
 
The following explanations reflect variances for FirstEnergy, excluding the Allegheny Companies. First quarter 2012 earnings associated with the Allegheny Companies are noted separately.
 
 
.
*The 2012 GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliation statements can be found on page 14 of this report and all GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliation statements are available on the Investor Information section of FirstEnergy Corp.'s website at
www.firstenergycorp.com/ir
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FES is successfully executing its retail strategy by continuing to expand in other markets, including Illinois, Michigan, New Jersey, and Maryland.  Direct sales increased by 2.7 million MWH, or 28%; mass market sales increased by 1 million MWH, a six-fold increase; and structured sales increased 945,000 MWH.
 
POLR generation sales decreased by 2.8 million MWH, or 48%, due to the combination of a reduced number of tranches served and lower MWHs per tranche.  The decreased volume per tranche reflects the impact of mild weather and increased migration of customers away from utilities default service.  The reduction in POLR sales is in line with FES strategy to realign its sales portfolio.  Governmental aggregation sales decreased by 156,000 MWH, or 4%, primarily due to the impact of mild weather.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
Ongoing fossil supercritical generation output decreased by 166,000 MWH, while ongoing subcritical units generation output decreased by 3.0 million MWH, in part due to lower demand and soft power prices.   Nuclear output increased by 750,000 MWH, primarily due to the absence of a refueling outage in the first quarter of 2012 compared to one refueling outage at Beaver Valley Unit 2 in the first quarter of 2011.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2012 and 2013 Earnings Guidance
 
Normalized non-GAAP* earnings guidance, excluding special items, remains at $3.30 to $3.60 per basic share for 2012 and $3.10 to $3.40 per basic share for 2013.  On a GAAP basis, 2012 and 2013 earnings are estimated to be $2.85 to $3.15 per basic share and $2.92 to $3.22 per basic share, respectively.
 
 
 
* The 2012-2013 GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliation statements can be found on page 14 of this report and all GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliation statements are available on the Investor Information section of FirstEnergy Corp.'s website at www.firstenergycorp.com/ir.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FirstEnergy Corp.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FirstEnergy Corp.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Developments
Recent
 
Financial Matters
Dividend
On March 20, 2012, the FirstEnergy Corp. (FirstEnergy or FE) Board of Directors declared an unchanged quarterly dividend of $0.55 per share of outstanding FE common stock. The dividend is payable June 1, 2012, to shareholders of record as of May 7, 2012.
Financing Activities
On April 2, 2012, FirstEnergy Generation Corp. (FGCO) and FirstEnergy Nuclear Generation Corp. (NGC) refinanced $52.1 million and $29.5 million, respectively, of Pollution Control Revenue Bonds (PCRBs).  The bonds were converted from a fixed-rate mandatory put mode to a variable-rate mode enhanced with a 3-year Letter of Credit (LOC). Additionally, on April 2, 2012, FGCO and NGC remarketed $146.7 million and $315 million of PCRBs, respectively.  The bonds were remarketed in a variable rate mode enhanced with a LOC.
On April 16, 2012, West Penn Power Company (WP) issued $100 million of first mortgage bonds through a private placement at a rate of 3.34%.  These bonds have a maturity of April 15, 2022 and the proceeds were used in part to redeem $80 million of 6.625% medium term notes of WP, which matured on April 16, 2012.
On April 16, 2012, Allegheny Energy Supply Company retired $503.2 million of 8.25% medium term notes at maturity.
Operational Matters
Root Cause Analysis Completed for Davis-Besse
On February 28, 2012, FirstEnergy Nuclear Operating Company announced it completed its Root Cause Analysis Report regarding the cause of the tight cracks identified in portions of the Davis-Besse Nuclear Power Station shield building during its fall 2011 reactor head replacement outage. The report was submitted to the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. The extensive evaluation supports earlier analysis that concludes the structural integrity of the shield building remains intact, and the building is able to perform its safety function.
Request for New Generation Filed
On March 8, 2012, FGCO filed an application for a feasibility study with PJM Interconnection (PJM) to install and interconnect to the transmission system approximately 800 megawatts of new combustion turbine peaking generation at its existing Eastlake Plant in Eastlake, Ohio, to help ensure reliable electric service in the region.  On April 25, 2012, PJM concluded its initial analysis of the reliability impacts from our previously announced plant retirements and requested Reliability Must-Run arrangements for Eastlake 1-3, Ashtabula 5 and Lake Shore 18.
Regulatory Matters
Ohio Utilities File to Extend Electric Security Plan
FirstEnergy's Ohio utilities filed an application with the Public Utilities Commission of Ohio (PUCO) to essentially extend their current Electric Security Plan (ESP) for two more years. If approved by the PUCO, the extension would allow Ohio Edison Company, The Cleveland Electric Illuminating Company and The Toledo Edison Company to establish electricity prices for their customers through May 31, 2016. The Ohio utilities requested PUCO approval by May 2, 2012 so that they may bid megawatts of PJM-qualified energy efficiency and demand response resources into the May 7, 2012 PJM capacity auction for the 2015-2016 planning year. If review cannot occur by May 2, 2012, approval is requested by June 20, 2012. While the alternative date would not allow FE Ohio utilities to bid a portion of the demand resources into the May 7, 2012 PJM capacity auction, the timing would provide adequate time to implement changes to the bidding schedule thereby enabling the purchase of a greater amount of generation at historically lower prices for the benefit of customers. The PUCO has set an evidentiary hearing for May 21, 2012; therefore approval by May 2, 2012 is not expected.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The extended ESP as proposed would maintain the substantial benefits from the current ESP including:
The extended ESP as proposed would also provide significant additional benefits including:
The filing is supported by 19 parties including:  Industrial Energy Users, Ohio Energy Group, PUCO Staff, the City of Akron, Ohio Manufacturers Association, Ohio Partners for Affordable Energy, and the Council of Smaller Enterprises.
 
 
Beaver Valley Unit 1 Refueling Outage
On April 9, 2012, Beaver Valley Power Station Unit 1 in Shippingport, Pa., safely shut down for scheduled refueling and maintenance. While the unit is off line, 65 of 157 fuel assemblies will be replaced and numerous safety inspections will be conducted, including inspections of the unit's high pressure turbine, main electrical generator and containment liner. In addition, preventative maintenance to ensure continued safe and reliable operations will be performed on major components, including pumps, valves and the cooling tower. The 911 MW unit operated safely and reliably for 359 consecutive days and has generated more than 9.3 million megawatt hours of electricity since the completion of its last refueling in November 2010.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This Consolidated Report to the Financial Community includes forward-looking statements based on information currently available to management. Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. These statements include declarations regarding management's intents, beliefs and current expectations. These statements typically contain, but are not limited to, the terms anticipate, potential, expect, believe, estimate and similar words. Forward-looking statements involve estimates, assumptions, known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Actual results may differ materially due to: the speed and nature of increased competition in the electric utility industry, the impact of the regulatory process on the pending matters before FERC and in the various states in which we do business including, but not limited to, matters related to rates, the status of the PATH project in light of the PJM Interconnection, L.L.C., (PJM)  direction to suspend work on the project pending review of its planning process, its re-evaluation of the need for the project and the uncertainty of the timing and amounts of any related capital expenditures, the uncertainties of various cost recovery and cost allocation issues resulting from ATSI's realignment into PJM, economic or weather conditions affecting future sales and margins, changes in markets for energy services, changing energy and commodity market prices and availability, financial derivative reforms that could increase our liquidity needs and collateral costs, the continued ability of FirstEnergy's regulated utilities to collect transition and other costs, operation and maintenance costs being higher than anticipated, other legislative and regulatory changes, and revised environmental requirements, including possible GHG emission, water intake and coal combustion residual regulations, the potential impacts of any laws, rules or regulations that ultimately replace CAIR, including CSAPR which was stayed by the courts on December 30, 2011, and the effects of the EPA's MATS rules, the uncertainty of the timing and amounts of the capital expenditures that may arise in connection with any litigation including NSR litigation or potential regulatory initiatives or rulemakings (including that such expenditures could result in our decision to shut down or idle certain generating units), the uncertainties associated with the company's plan to retire its older unscrubbed regulated and competitive fossil units, including the impact on vendor commitments and PJM's review of the company's plans for, and timing of, those retirements, adverse regulatory or legal decisions and outcomes with respect to our nuclear operations (including, but not limited to the revocation or non-renewal of necessary licenses, approvals or operating permits by the NRC including as a result of the incident at Japan's Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Plant), issues that could result from our continuing evaluation of the indications of cracking in the Davis-Besse plant shield building imposed by the Confirmatory Action Letter issued by the NRC, adverse legal decisions and outcomes related to Met-Ed's and Penelec's ability to recover certain transmission costs through their transmission service charge riders, the continuing availability of generating units and changes in their ability to operate at or near full capacity, replacement power costs being higher than anticipated or inadequately hedged, the ability to comply with applicable state and federal reliability standards and energy efficiency mandates, changes in customers' demand for power, including but not limited to, changes resulting from the implementation of state and federal energy efficiency mandates, the ability to accomplish or realize anticipated benefits from strategic goals, FirstEnergy's ability to improve electric commodity margins and the impact of, among other factors, the increased cost of fuel and fuel transportation on such margins, the ability to experience growth in the distribution business, the changing market conditions that could affect the value of assets held in FirstEnergy's NDTs, pension trusts and other trust funds, and cause FirstEnergy and its subsidiaries to make additional contributions sooner, or in amounts that are larger than currently anticipated, the impact of changes to material accounting policies, the ability to access the public securities and other capital and credit markets in accordance with FirstEnergy's financing plan, the cost of such capital and overall condition of the capital and credit markets affecting FirstEnergy and its subsidiaries, changes in general economic conditions affecting FirstEnergy and its subsidiaries, interest rates and any actions taken by credit rating agencies that could negatively affect FirstEnergy's and its subsidiaries' access to financing or their costs and increase requirements to post additional collateral to support outstanding commodity positions, LOCs and other financial guarantees, the state of the national and regional economy and its impact on major industrial and commercial customers of FirstEnergy and its subsidiaries, issues concerning the soundness of domestic and foreign financial institutions and counterparties with which FirstEnergy and its subsidiaries do business, the risks and other factors discussed from time to time in FirstEnergy's and its applicable subsidiaries' SEC filings, and other similar factors. Dividends declared from time to time on FirstEnergy's common stock during any annual period may in the aggregate vary from the indicated amount due to circumstances considered by FirstEnergy's Board of Directors at the time of the actual declarations. A security rating is not a recommendation to buy or hold securities and is subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating agency. Each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. The foregoing review of factors should not be construed as exhaustive. New factors emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for management to predict all such factors, nor assess the impact of any such factor on FirstEnergy's business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. FirstEnergy expressly disclaims any current intention to update, except as required by law, any forward-looking statements contained herein as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Forward-Looking Statements:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


