FILE:FE/FE-8K-20120228162808.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2.):
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On February 28, 2012, FirstEnergy Corp. issued two public documents regarding fourth quarter and full-year 2011 earnings, which are attached as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 hereto and incorporated by reference. FirstEnergy's Press Release and Consolidated Report to the Financial Community contain non-GAAP* financial measures. Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, FirstEnergy has provided quantitative reconciliations within the Press Release and Consolidated Report to the Financial Community of the non-GAAP* financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.  The information in the Press Release and the Consolidated Report to the Financial Community and the information contained herein Items 2.02 and 9.01 shall not be deemed filed for purposes of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, nor shall such information and Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
The Press Release and Consolidated Report to the Financial Community contain references to non-GAAP* financial measures including, among others, basic non-GAAP earnings per share, which are not calculated in accordance with GAAP because they exclude the impact of "special items." Special items reflect the impact on earnings of events that are not routine or that may be related to discontinued businesses. Management believes presenting normalized earnings calculated in this manner provides useful information to investors in evaluating the ongoing results of FirstEnergy's businesses and assists investors in comparing FirstEnergys operating performance to the operating performance of other companies in the energy sector. Management believes presenting this non-GAAP* measure provides useful information to investors in assessing FirstEnergy's normalized operating performance. FirstEnergy's management frequently references this non-GAAP* financial measure in its decision-making, using it to facilitate historical and ongoing performance comparisons as well as comparisons to the performance of peer companies.
The non-GAAP* information presented in the Press Release and Consolidated Report to the Financial Community should be considered in addition to, and not as a substitute for, the most directly comparable financial measure prepared in accordance with GAAP. Also, the non-GAAP* financial measure may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other entities.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
*This Form 8-K contains non-GAAP financial measures. Generally, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a company's historical or future financial performance, financial position, or cash flows that either excludes or includes amounts, or is subject to adjustment that has the effect of excluding or including amounts, that are not normally excluded or included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, or GAAP.
 
 
 
2
 
 
This Form 8-K includes forward-looking statements based on information currently available to management. Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. These statements include declarations regarding management's intents, beliefs and current expectations. These statements typically contain, but are not limited to, the terms anticipate, potential, expect, believe, estimate and similar words. Forward-looking statements involve estimates, assumptions, known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Actual results may differ materially due to: the speed and nature of increased competition in the electric utility industry, the impact of the regulatory process on the pending matters before FERC and in the various states in which we do business including, but not limited to, matters related to rates, the status of the PATH project in light of the PJM Interconnection, L.L.C., (PJM)  direction to suspend work on the project pending review of its planning process, its re-evaluation of the need for the project and the uncertainty of the timing and amounts of any related capital expenditures, business and regulatory impacts from ATSI's realignment into PJM, economic or weather conditions affecting future sales and margins, changes in markets for energy services, changing energy and commodity market prices and availability, financial derivative reforms that could increase our liquidity needs and collateral costs, the continued ability of FirstEnergy's regulated utilities to collect transition and other costs, operation and maintenance costs being higher than anticipated, other legislative and regulatory changes, and revised environmental requirements, including possible GHG emission, water intake and coal combustion residual regulations, the potential impacts of any laws, rules or regulations that ultimately replace CAIR, including CSAPR which was stayed by the courts on December 30, 2011, and the effects of the EPA's MATS rules, the uncertainty of the timing and amounts of the capital expenditures that may arise in connection with any litigation including NSR litigation or potential regulatory initiatives or rulemakings (including that such expenditures could result in our decision to shut down or idle certain generating units), the uncertainty associated with the company's plan to retire its older unscrubbed regulated and competitive fossil units, including the impact on vendor commitments and PJM's review of the company's plans, adverse regulatory or legal decisions and outcomes with respect to our nuclear operations (including, but not limited to the revocation or non-renewal of necessary licenses, approvals or operating permits by the NRC including as a result of the incident at Japan's Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Plant), issues that could result from our continuing investigation and analysis of the indications of cracking in the plant shield building at Davis-Besse, adverse legal decisions and outcomes related to Met-Ed's and Penelec's ability to recover certain transmission costs through their transmission service charge riders, the continuing availability of generating units and changes in their ability to operate at or near full capacity, replacement power costs being higher than anticipated or inadequately hedged, the ability to comply with applicable state and federal reliability standards and energy efficiency mandates, changes in customers' demand for power, including but not limited to, changes resulting from the implementation of state and federal energy efficiency mandates, the ability to accomplish or realize anticipated benefits from strategic goals, FirstEnergy's ability to improve electric commodity margins and the impact of, among other factors, the increased cost of fuel and fuel transportation on such margins, the ability to experience growth in the distribution business, the changing market conditions that could affect the value of assets held in FirstEnergy's NDTs, pension trusts and other trust funds, and cause FirstEnergy and its subsidiaries to make additional contributions sooner, or in amounts that are larger than currently anticipated, the impact of changes to material accounting policies, the ability to access the public securities and other capital and credit markets in accordance with FirstEnergy's financing plan, the cost of such capital and overall condition of the capital and credit markets affecting FirstEnergy and its subsidiaries, changes in general economic conditions affecting FirstEnergy and its subsidiaries, interest rates and any actions taken by credit rating agencies that could negatively affect FirstEnergy's and its subsidiaries' access to financing or their costs and increase requirements to post additional collateral to support outstanding commodity positions, LOCs and other financial guarantees, the continuing uncertainty of the national and regional economy and its impact on major industrial and commercial customers of FirstEnergy and its subsidiaries, issues concerning the soundness of financial institutions and counterparties with which FirstEnergy and its subsidiaries do business, issues arising from the completed merger of FirstEnergy and Allegheny Energy and the ongoing coordination of their combined operations including FirstEnergy's ability to maintain relationships with customers, employees and suppliers, as well as the ability to continue to successfully integrate the businesses and realize cost savings and other synergies, the risks and other factors discussed from time to time in FirstEnergy's and its applicable subsidiaries' SEC filings, and other similar factors. Dividends declared from time to time on FirstEnergy's common stock during any annual period may in the aggregate vary from the indicated amount due to circumstances considered by FirstEnergy's Board of Directors at the time of the actual declarations. A security rating is not a recommendation to buy or hold securities and is subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating agency. Each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. The foregoing review of factors should not be construed as exhaustive. New factors emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for management to predict all such factors, nor assess the impact of any such factor on FirstEnergy's business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. FirstEnergy expressly disclaims any current intention to update, except as required by law, any forward-looking statements contained herein as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Forward-Looking Statements:  
 
 
 
 
3
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
February 28, 2012
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
Akron, Ohio  FirstEnergy Corp. (NYSE: FE) today reported 2011 earnings and provided earnings guidance for 2012 and 2013.
Full-year 2011 earnings were $3.64 per basic share of common stock on a non-GAAP* basis.  On a GAAP basis, 2011 earnings were $2.22 per basic share ($2.21 diluted) on net income of $869 million and revenue of $16.3 billion.  
FirstEnergy provided 2012 non-GAAP earnings guidance of $3.30 to $3.60 per basic share of common stock ($2.87 to $3.17 per share on a GAAP basis), and is estimating 2013 non-GAAP earnings of $3.10 to $3.40 per basic share of common stock ($2.92 to $3.22 per share on a GAAP basis).  
In 2011, we successfully met our financial and operational objectives, including those related to the integration of Allegheny Energy, while continuing to grow our competitive business, said Anthony J. Alexander, president and chief executive officer of FirstEnergy.  We are committed to building on this progress in 2012, and I believe our strong retail focus and the diversity of our competitive and regulated assets place us in a solid position to meet the challenges well face this year and next.
In 2010, full-year non-GAAP earnings were $3.90 per basic share of common stock, while 2010 earnings on a GAAP basis were $2.44 per basic share ($2.42 diluted) on net income of $718 million and revenue of $13.3 billion.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
The companys fourth quarter 2011 non-GAAP earnings were $0.77 per basic share of common stock.  On a GAAP basis, basic and diluted earnings per share were $0.23 on net income of $99 million and revenue of $3.9 billion.  This compares to fourth quarter 2010 non-GAAP earnings of $0.77 per basic share of common stock.  On a GAAP basis, fourth quarter 2010 basic and diluted earnings per share were $0.27 on net income of $78 million and revenue of $3.2 billion.  
arnings for 2010 and the first nine months of 2011 were revised as a result of the companys adoption of a change in accounting for pensions and other post-employment benefits (OPEB) in the fourth quarter of 2011, as announced last month.
FirstEnergys e
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
Distribution deliveries, excluding Allegheny Energy, were essentially flat for the full-year 2011 compared to 2010, as a 3 percent increase in industrial sales was offset by slight declines in residential and commercial deliveries, due to mild weather.  Fourth quarter 2011 distribution deliveries decreased 3 percent compared to 2010.  Industrial deliveries in the quarter were flat compared to the same period in 2010, while milder weather this year drove a 7 percent decrease in residential sales, and a 3 percent decline in commercial deliveries.  
Retail electric generation sales by FirstEnergy Solutions (FES) were up
55 percent for the year and 45 percent for the quarter compared to the same periods in 2010.  Following reduced sales in the wholesale market, total FES sales were down
4 percent for the year and 13 percent for the quarter compared to the same periods in 2010.  This shift in markets is consistent with the companys strategy to realign its sales portfolio to serve more retail customers.
Non-GAAP results for the fourth quarter and full year of 2011 benefited from net accretion from the Allegheny merger, offset by reduced sales margins that continue to be impacted by low power prices.  As a result of completing a $1.8 billion environmental project at the end of 2010, and placing the project in service in 2011, the companys 2011
 
 
 
 
3
 
 
 
depreciation expenses were higher and interest costs capitalized to construction projects were reduced, resulting in higher net financing costs compared to the prior year periods.
GAAP results for the fourth quarter and full year of 2011 were further affected by gains from the sale of non-core assets that were partially offset by charges for mark-to-market adjustments associated with the pensions and OPEB accounting change, merger-related costs and generating asset impairments.  
FirstEnergys Consolidated Report to the Financial Community  which provides highlights on company developments and financial results for the year and for the fourth quarter of 2011  is posted on the companys website  To access the report, click on .
www.firstenergycorp.com/ir
.
 
Fourth Quarter 2011 Consolidated Report to the Financial Community
An in-depth briefing on the companys strategies, operations and financial outlook will be presented
at FirstEnergys Analyst Meeting in New York City tomorrow at approximately 8:15 a.m. EST.  Materials related to the meeting will be posted on the website this evening.  A live Internet webcast of the presentation and follow-up question-and-answer session will be available on the site.  The webcast will be archived on the website.
 
 
FirstEnergy is a diversified energy company dedicated to safety, reliability and operational excellence.  Its 10 electric distribution companies comprise the nations largest investor-owned electric system.  Its diverse generating fleet features non-emitting nuclear, scrubbed baseload coal, natural gas, and pumped-storage hydro and other renewables, and has a total generating capacity of nearly 23,000 megawatts.
 
(*)  This news release contains non-GAAP financial measures.  Generally, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a company's historical or future financial performance, financial position, or cash flows that either excludes or includes amounts that are not normally excluded or included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP).   These non-GAAP financial measures are intended to complement, and not considered as an alternative, to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure.  Also, the non-GAAP financial measures may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other entities.
 
 
 
 
4
 
 
 
This news release includes forward-looking statements based on information currently available to management. Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. These statements include declarations regarding management's intents, beliefs and current expectations. These statements typically contain, but are not limited to, the terms anticipate, potential, expect, believe, estimate and similar words. Forward-looking statements involve estimates, assumptions, known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Actual results may differ materially due to: the speed and nature of increased competition in the electric utility industry, the impact of the regulatory process on the pending matters before FERC and in the various states in which we do business including, but not limited to, matters related to rates, the status of the PATH project in light of the PJM Interconnection, L.L.C., (PJM)  direction to suspend work on the project pending review of its planning process, its re-evaluation of the need for the project and the uncertainty of the timing and amounts of any related capital expenditures, business and regulatory impacts from ATSI's realignment into PJM, economic or weather conditions affecting future sales and margins, changes in markets for energy services, changing energy and commodity market prices and availability, financial derivative reforms that could increase our liquidity needs and collateral costs, the continued ability of FirstEnergy's regulated utilities to collect transition and other costs, operation and maintenance costs being higher than anticipated, other legislative and regulatory changes, and revised environmental requirements, including possible GHG emission, water intake and coal combustion residual regulations, the potential impacts of any laws, rules or regulations that ultimately replace CAIR, including CSAPR which was stayed by the courts on December 30, 2011, and the effects of the EPA's MATS rules, the uncertainty of the timing and amounts of the capital expenditures that may arise in connection with any litigation including NSR litigation or potential regulatory initiatives or rulemakings (including that such expenditures could result in our decision to shut down or idle certain generating units), the uncertainty associated with the company's plan to retire its older unscrubbed regulated and competitive fossil units, including the impact on vendor commitments and PJM's review of the company's plans, adverse regulatory or legal decisions and outcomes with respect to our nuclear operations (including, but not limited to the revocation or non-renewal of necessary licenses, approvals or operating permits by the NRC including as a result of the incident at Japan's Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Plant), issues that could result from our continuing investigation and analysis of the indications of cracking in the plant shield building at Davis-Besse, adverse legal decisions and outcomes related to Met-Ed's and Penelec's ability to recover certain transmission costs through their transmission service charge riders, the continuing availability of generating units and changes in their ability to operate at or near full capacity, replacement power costs being higher than anticipated or inadequately hedged, the ability to comply with applicable state and federal reliability standards and energy efficiency mandates, changes in customers' demand for power, including but not limited to, changes resulting from the implementation of state and federal energy efficiency mandates, the ability to accomplish or realize anticipated benefits from strategic goals, FirstEnergy's ability to improve electric commodity margins and the impact of, among other factors, the increased cost of fuel and fuel transportation on such margins, the ability to experience growth in the distribution business, the changing market conditions that could affect the value of assets held in FirstEnergy's NDTs, pension trusts and other trust funds, and cause FirstEnergy and its subsidiaries to make additional contributions sooner, or in amounts that are larger than currently anticipated, the impact of changes to material accounting policies, the ability to access the public securities and other capital and credit markets in accordance with FirstEnergy's financing plan, the cost of such capital and overall condition of the capital and credit markets affecting FirstEnergy and its subsidiaries, changes in general economic conditions affecting FirstEnergy and its subsidiaries, interest rates and any actions taken by credit rating agencies that could negatively affect FirstEnergy's and its subsidiaries' access to financing or their costs and increase requirements to post additional collateral to support outstanding commodity positions, LOCs and other financial guarantees, the continuing uncertainty of the national and regional economy and its impact on major industrial and commercial customers of FirstEnergy and its subsidiaries, issues concerning the soundness of financial institutions and counterparties with which FirstEnergy and its subsidiaries do business, issues arising from the completed merger of FirstEnergy and Allegheny Energy and the ongoing coordination of their combined operations including FirstEnergy's ability to maintain relationships with customers, employees and suppliers, as well as the ability to continue to successfully integrate the businesses and realize cost savings and other synergies, the risks and other factors discussed from time to time in FirstEnergy's and its applicable subsidiaries' SEC filings, and other similar factors. Dividends declared from time to time on FirstEnergy's common stock during any annual period may in the aggregate vary from the indicated amount due to circumstances considered by FirstEnergy's Board of Directors at the time of the actual declarations. A security rating is not a recommendation to buy or hold securities and is subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating agency. Each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. The foregoing review of factors should not be construed as exhaustive. New factors emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for management to predict all such factors, nor assess the impact of any such factor on FirstEnergy's business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. FirstEnergy expressly disclaims any current intention to update, except as required by law, any forward-looking statements contained herein as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Forward-Looking Statements:
 
 
5
 

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
*The 2011 GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliation statements can be found on page 18 of this report and all GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliation statements are available on the Investor Information section of FirstEnergy Corp.'s website at
www.firstenergycorp.com/ir
.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4Q 2011 Results vs. 4Q 2010 (FE Pre-Merger)
 
The following explanations reflect variances for FirstEnergy, excluding the Allegheny Companies. Fourth quarter 2011 earnings associated with the Allegheny Companies are noted separately.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The reduction in POLR and structured sales was partially offset by higher direct, mass market, and governmental aggregation sales, which increased by 5.2 million MWH, or 45%.  Direct sales increased by 4.5 million MWH, or 57%; mass market sales increased by 632,000 MWH, or 419%; and governmental aggregation sales increased 57,000 MWH, or 2%.  FES continues to successfully execute its retail strategy by gaining new customers in recently deregulated markets in Pennsylvania following the expiration of POLR obligations in December 2010. FES retail sales also grew significantly in Ohio and continue to expand in other markets, including Illinois, Michigan, New Jersey, and Maryland.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nuclear output decreased by 1.2 million MWH, primarily due to a mid-cycle outage at Davis-Besse to replace the reactor vessel head (66 days) and a forced outage at Perry (17 days) in the fourth quarter of 2011 compared to a 33-day refueling outage at Beaver Valley Unit 1 in the fourth quarter of 2010.  Fossil supercritical generation output decreased by 900,000 MWH, while subcritical units generation output decreased by 1 million MWH, in part due to lower demand and soft power prices.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Merger Benefits
 
FirstEnergy exceeded the 2011 merger benefits target resulting from the merger with Allegheny Energy.  In 2011, FirstEnergy captured merger benefits of approximately $270 million pre-tax on an annual basis, compared to the annual target of $210 million.
 
 
2012 and 2013 Earnings Guidance
 
Normalized non-GAAP* earnings guidance, excluding special items, is $3.30 to $3.60 per basic share for 2012 and $3.10 to $3.40 per basic share for 2013.  On a GAAP basis, 2012 and 2013 earnings are estimated to be $2.87 to $3.17 per basic share and $2.92 to $3.22 per basic share, respectively.
 
 
 
 
 
 
* The 2011-2013 GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliation statements can be found on page 18 of this report and all GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliation statements are available on the Investor Information section of FirstEnergy Corp.'s website at www.firstenergycorp.com/ir.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FirstEnergy Corp.
 
 
 
 
 
 
FirstEnergy Corp.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FirstEnergy Corp.
Special Items
 (
In millions
)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Developments
Recent
 
of
Board
Directors
On December 20, 2011, FirstEnergy Corp. (FirstEnergy or FE) announced the election of Donald T. Misheff to serve on its Board of Directors effective January 1, 2012. Misheff retired from Ernst & Young at the end of 2011, where he was the Northeast Ohio Managing Partner.
On February 21, 2012, FE announced that Jesse T. Williams, Sr., will retire from its Board of Directors, effective March 1, 2012, following 20 years of service.
Financial Matters
Dividend
December 20, 2011, the Board of Directors declared an unchanged quarterly dividend of $0.55 per share of outstanding FE common stock. The dividend will be payable March 1, 2012, to shareholders of record as of February 7, 2012.
On
Financing Activities
On November 15, 2011, FE retired $250 million of 6.45% senior unsecured notes.
On December 1, 2011, FirstEnergy Nuclear Generation Corp. (NGC) repurchased $54.6 million of Pollution Control Revenue Bonds. Subject to market conditions and other considerations, the company expects to hold these bonds for future remarketing.
On January 18, 2012, Moody's Investors Service upgraded Trans-Allegheny Interstate Line Companys (TrAILCo) senior unsecured rating to A3 from Baa2 based on its low business risk profile, strong supportive regulatory environment provided by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, and strong expected financial performance. TrAILCos primary investment is the Trans-Allegheny Interstate Line, a transmission project completed in May 2011 that runs from southwestern Pennsylvania through West Virginia to northern Virginia.
On January 26, 2012, FE announced several initiatives designed to enhance the transparency of its operational performance and further strengthen its balance sheet, including changing the method of accounting for pensions and OPEB, contributing $600 million to its pension plan, lowering its assumed pension and OPEB asset rates of return from 8.25% in 2011 to 7.75% in 2012, reducing the pension discount rate from 5.50% at the end of 2010 to 5.00% at the end of 2011, and reducing the OPEB discount rate from 5.00% at the end of 2010 to 4.75% at the end of 2011. More information regarding these initiatives can be found in the Letter to the Investment Community issued on January 26, 2012, which is available on FEs Investor Information website  .
www.firstenergycorp.com/ir
Regulatory
Matters
West Virginia Fuel, Purchased Power Cost Decision
On December 30, 2011, Monongahela Power Company (MP) and Potomac Edison Company (PE), subsidiaries of FE, announced that the Public Service Commission of West Virginia (WVPSC) issued an order regarding MPs and PEs adjustment of fuel and purchased power costs. The WVPSCs order approved a settlement agreement between MP and PE and the Consumer Advocate Division and Staff of the WVPSC and the West Virginia Energy Users Group. In the approved settlement, parties have agreed that MP and PE will recover an additional $19.6 million in 2012, an approximate 1.7% increase, primarily reflecting rising coal prices over the past two years, with certain additional amounts to be recovered in future years.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Operational Matters
Retiring of Coal-Fired
Units
On February 8, 2012, FirstEnergy announced that its MP subsidiary will be retiring the following older coal-fired power plants located in West Virginia by September 1, 2012:
Albright                                       292 MW
Willow Island                            242
Rivesville                                
   126
Total                                           660 MW
On January 26, 2012, FE announced that its generation subsidiaries will retire the following older coal-fired plants located in Ohio, Pennsylvania and Maryland by September 1, 2012:
Ashtabula                                  244 MW
Armstrong 1-2                          356
Bayshore 2-4                            495
Eastlake 1-5                          1,233
Lake Shore                               245
R. Paul Smith 3-4                    
116
Total                                        2,689 MW
The decision to close the plants is based on the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Mercury and Air Toxics Standards, which were recently finalized, and other environmental regulations. Additional investment to implement these standards would make these plants even more incapable of being dispatched under current market rules. These closures are subject to review for reliability impacts by PJM Interconnection LLC, the regional transmission organization that controls the area where these power plants are located. In addition, MP will file information with the WVPSC regarding the retirement of its plants. More information can be found in the forms 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on January 24 and February 7, 2012.
Recently, these plants served mostly as peaking or intermediate facilities, generating, on average, approximately 10 percent of the electricity produced by the company over the past three years.
Davis-Besse to Service
Returns
On December 6, 2011, FirstEnergy Nuclear Operating Company announced its Davis-Besse Nuclear Power Station returned to service following replacement of the reactor vessel head and other scheduled maintenance, which began on October 1, 2011.  The new reactor vessel head features control rod nozzles made of an enhanced material and further promotes safe and reliable operation of the plant.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This Consolidated Report to the Financial Community includes forward-looking statements based on information currently available to management. Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. These statements include declarations regarding management's intents, beliefs and current expectations. These statements typically contain, but are not limited to, the terms anticipate, potential, expect, believe, estimate and similar words. Forward-looking statements involve estimates, assumptions, known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Actual results may differ materially due to: the speed and nature of increased competition in the electric utility industry, the impact of the regulatory process on the pending matters before FERC and in the various states in which we do business including, but not limited to, matters related to rates, the status of the PATH project in light of the PJM Interconnection, L.L.C., (PJM)  direction to suspend work on the project pending review of its planning process, its re-evaluation of the need for the project and the uncertainty of the timing and amounts of any related capital expenditures, business and regulatory impacts from ATSI's realignment into PJM, economic or weather conditions affecting future sales and margins, changes in markets for energy services, changing energy and commodity market prices and availability, financial derivative reforms that could increase our liquidity needs and collateral costs, the continued ability of FirstEnergy's regulated utilities to collect transition and other costs, operation and maintenance costs being higher than anticipated, other legislative and regulatory changes, and revised environmental requirements, including possible GHG emission, water intake and coal combustion residual regulations, the potential impacts of any laws, rules or regulations that ultimately replace CAIR, including CSAPR which was stayed by the courts on December 30, 2011, and the effects of the EPA's MATS rules, the uncertainty of the timing and amounts of the capital expenditures that may arise in connection with any litigation including NSR litigation or potential regulatory initiatives or rulemakings (including that such expenditures could result in our decision to shut down or idle certain generating units), the uncertainty associated with the company's plan to retire its older unscrubbed regulated and competitive fossil units, including the impact on vendor commitments and PJM's review of the company's plans, adverse regulatory or legal decisions and outcomes with respect to our nuclear operations (including, but not limited to the revocation or non-renewal of necessary licenses, approvals or operating permits by the NRC including as a result of the incident at Japan's Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Plant), issues that could result from our continuing investigation and analysis of the indications of cracking in the plant shield building at Davis-Besse, adverse legal decisions and outcomes related to Met-Ed's and Penelec's ability to recover certain transmission costs through their transmission service charge riders, the continuing availability of generating units and changes in their ability to operate at or near full capacity, replacement power costs being higher than anticipated or inadequately hedged, the ability to comply with applicable state and federal reliability standards and energy efficiency mandates, changes in customers' demand for power, including but not limited to, changes resulting from the implementation of state and federal energy efficiency mandates, the ability to accomplish or realize anticipated benefits from strategic goals, FirstEnergy's ability to improve electric commodity margins and the impact of, among other factors, the increased cost of fuel and fuel transportation on such margins, the ability to experience growth in the distribution business, the changing market conditions that could affect the value of assets held in FirstEnergy's NDTs, pension trusts and other trust funds, and cause FirstEnergy and its subsidiaries to make additional contributions sooner, or in amounts that are larger than currently anticipated, the impact of changes to material accounting policies, the ability to access the public securities and other capital and credit markets in accordance with FirstEnergy's financing plan, the cost of such capital and overall condition of the capital and credit markets affecting FirstEnergy and its subsidiaries, changes in general economic conditions affecting FirstEnergy and its subsidiaries, interest rates and any actions taken by credit rating agencies that could negatively affect FirstEnergy's and its subsidiaries' access to financing or their costs and increase requirements to post additional collateral to support outstanding commodity positions, LOCs and other financial guarantees, the continuing uncertainty of the national and regional economy and its impact on major industrial and commercial customers of FirstEnergy and its subsidiaries, issues concerning the soundness of financial institutions and counterparties with which FirstEnergy and its subsidiaries do business, issues arising from the completed merger of FirstEnergy and Allegheny Energy and the ongoing coordination of their combined operations including FirstEnergy's ability to maintain relationships with customers, employees and suppliers, as well as the ability to continue to successfully integrate the businesses and realize cost savings and other synergies, the risks and other factors discussed from time to time in FirstEnergy's and its applicable subsidiaries' SEC filings, and other similar factors. Dividends declared from time to time on FirstEnergy's common stock during any annual period may in the aggregate vary from the indicated amount due to circumstances considered by FirstEnergy's Board of Directors at the time of the actual declarations. A security rating is not a recommendation to buy or hold securities and is subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating agency. Each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. The foregoing review of factors should not be construed as exhaustive. New factors emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for management to predict all such factors, nor assess the impact of any such factor on FirstEnergy's business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. FirstEnergy expressly disclaims any current intention to update, except as required by law, any forward-looking statements contained herein as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Forward-Looking Statements:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


