Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Company Overview The Company is principally engaged in procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. The Companys operations are classified into three reportable business segments: Oilseeds Processing, Corn Processing, and Agricultural Services. Each of these segments is organized based upon the nature of products and services offered. The Companys remaining operations are aggregated and classified as Other. The Oilseeds Processing segment includes activities related to processing oilseeds such as soybeans, cottonseed, sunflower seeds, canola, peanuts, and flaxseed into vegetable oils and meals principally for the food and feed industries. In addition, oilseeds may be resold into the marketplace as a raw material for other processors. Crude vegetable oil is sold "as is" or is further processed by refining, bleaching, and deodorizing into salad oils. Salad oils can be further processed by hydrogenating and or interesterifying into margarine, shortening, and other food products. Partially refined oil is sold for use in chemicals, paints, and other industrial products. Refined oil can be further processed for use in the production of biodiesel. Oilseed meals are primary ingredients used in the manufacture of commercial livestock and poultry feeds. Oilseeds Processing also includes activities related to the Companys interest in Wilmar International Limited, the largest agricultural processing business in Asia. The Corn Processing segment includes activities related to the production of sweeteners, starches, dextrose, and syrups for the food and beverage industry as well as activities related to the production, by fermentation, of bioproducts such as alcohol, amino acids, and other specialty food and feed ingredients. The Agricultural Services segment utilizes the Companys extensive grain elevator and transportation network to buy, store, clean, and transport agricultural commodities, such as oilseeds, corn, wheat, milo, oats, and barley, and resells these commodities primarily as feed ingredients and as raw materials for the agricultural processing industry. Agricultural Services grain sourcing and transportation network provides reliable and efficient services to the Companys agricultural processing operations. Also included in Agricultural Services are the activities of A.C. Toepfer International, a global merchandiser of agricultural commodities and processed products. Other includes the Companys remaining operations, consisting principally of food, feed, and industrial businesses and financial activities. Food, feed, and industrial includes: Wheat Processing, with activities related to the production of wheat flour; Cocoa Processing, with activities related to the production of chocolate and cocoa products; the production of natural health and nutrition products; and the production of other food, feed, and industrial products. Financial activities include banking, captive insurance, private equity fund investments, and futures commission merchant activities. Operating Performance Indicators The Companys Oilseeds Processing, Agricultural Services, and Wheat Processing operations are principally agricultural commodity based businesses where changes in segment selling prices move in relationship to changes in prices of the commodity based agricultural raw materials. Therefore, changes in agricultural commodity prices have relatively equal impacts on both net sales and cost of products sold and minimal impact on the gross profit of underlying transactions. As a result, changes in net sales amounts of these business segments do not necessarily correspond to the changes in gross profit realized by these businesses. The Companys Corn Processing operations and certain other food and feed processing operations also utilize agricultural commodities (or products derived from agricultural commodities) as raw materials. In these operations, agricultural commodity price changes can result in significant fluctuations in cost of products sold, and such price changes cannot necessarily be passed directly through to the selling price of the finished products. For products such as ethanol, selling prices bear no direct relationship to the raw material cost of the agricultural commodity from which it is produced. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) The Company conducts its business in many countries. For the majority of the Companys subsidiaries located outside the United States, the local currency is the functional currency. Revenues and expenses denominated in foreign currencies are translated into U.S. dollars at the weighted average exchange rates for the applicable periods. Fluctuations in the exchange rates of foreign currencies, primarily the Euro and British pound, as compared to the U.S. dollar will result in corresponding fluctuations in the relative U.S. dollar value of the Companys revenues and expenses. The impact of these currency exchange rate changes, where significant, is discussed below. The Company measures the performance of its business segments using key operating statistics such as segment operating profit and return on fixed capital investment, and return on net assets. The Companys operating results can vary significantly due to changes in unpredictable factors such as fluctuations in energy prices, weather conditions, crop plantings, global government farm programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. Due to these unpredictable factors, the Company does not provide forward looking information in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 2007 Compared to 2006 As an agricultural based commodity business, the Company is subject to a variety of market factors which affect the Companys operating results. Strong biodiesel demand in Europe continued to create increased vegetable oil demand and positively impacted rapeseed crushing margins in Europe. Abundant oilseed supplies, improved vegetable oil values, and strong protein meal demand have positively impacted oilseed crushing margins in North America. Increased ethanol contracted selling prices, continuing strong ethanol demand, and solid demand for sweetener and starch products improved corn processing results. These increases in corn processing results were partially offset by higher net corn costs. Global grain merchandising opportunities resulting from regional production imbalances also improved operating results. North American river transportation operations were favorably impacted by strong demand for river transportation services which increased barge freight rates. Increasing commodity price levels negatively affected LIFO inventory valuations partially offsetting the improvements in operating results. Net earnings increased principally due to improved operating results in all of the Companys operating segments. Earnings before income taxes for 2007 include a gain of $440 million related to the exchange of the Companys interests in certain Asian joint ventures for shares of Wilmar International Limited (the Wilmar Gain), a $357 million realized securities gain from sales of the Companys equity securities of Tyson Foods, Inc. and Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc., a gain of $153 million from the sale of the Companys interest in Agricore United and a $53 million gain from the sale of the Companys Arkady food ingredient business. Earnings before income taxes for 2007 also include charges of $206 million from the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations, $46 million related to the repurchase of $400 million of the Companys outstanding debentures, and $21 million related to abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Net earnings for 2006 include a $36 million reduction in income tax expense related to the recognition of federal and state income tax credits and adjustments resulting from the reconciliation of filed tax returns to the previously estimated tax provision. Earnings before income taxes for 2006 include charges of $15 million resulting from the Companys adoption of Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation Number 47, Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations, an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 143 (FIN 47), $71 million related to abandonment and write down of long lived assets, $9 million representing the Companys share of a charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets reported by an unconsolidated affiliate of the Company, and $22 million associated with the closure of a citric acid plant and exiting the European animal feed business. Earnings before income taxes for 2006 also include credits of $12 million from the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations, $17 million from the sale of long lived assets, $46 million related to Brazilian transactional tax credits, and $40 million related to realized securities gains. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Analysis of Statements of Earnings Net sales and other operating income increased 20% to $44.0 billion due primarily to increased selling prices of agricultural commodities, oilseed and corn processing products and, to a lesser extent, increased sales volumes of agricultural commodities and oilseed processing products. In addition, net sales and other operating income increased $916 million, or 3%, due to currency exchange rate fluctuations. Net sales and other operating income by segment are as follows: 2007 2006 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing $ 13,937 $ 11,867 $ 2,070 Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 2,378 2,133 245 Bioproducts 3,064 2,727 337 Total Corn Processing 5,442 4,860 582 Agricultural Services 19,706 15,440 4,266 Other Food, Feed, and Industrial 4,840 4,354 486 Financial 93 75 18 Total Other 4,933 4,429 504 Total $ 44,018 $ 36,596 $ 7,422 Oilseeds Processing sales increased 17% to $13.9 billion due principally to increased average selling prices of vegetable oil and increased sales volumes of vegetable oil and biodiesel. Vegetable oil selling prices and volumes improved as the markets anticipate new demand from the developing United States biodiesel industry. Biodiesel sales volumes increased due to additional production capacity. Corn Processing sales increased 12% to $5.4 billion principally due to increased sales of Bioproducts and, to a lesser extent, increased sales of Sweeteners and Starches. Bioproducts sales increased primarily due to higher average selling prices of ethanol, partially offset by lower sales volumes. Ethanol average selling prices increased principally due to higher gasoline prices. Ethanol sales volumes decreased as 2006 sales volumes exceeded production due to the release of inventories built up in anticipation of refiners replacing MTBE with ethanol. Sweeteners and Starches sales increased primarily due to higher average selling prices resulting from good demand for sweetener and starch products. Agricultural Services sales increased 28% to $19.7 billion principally due to increased agricultural commodity prices and increased sales volumes. The increase in commodity prices is primarily due to higher average market prices of corn in North America which have increased 60% from the prior year. Increased sales volumes of global grain merchandising activities also contributed to the increase in Agricultural Services sales. Other sales increased 11% to $4.9 billion primarily due to higher average selling prices of wheat flour products and, to a lesser extent, increased sales volumes and higher average selling prices of cocoa products. Cost of products sold increased 21% to $40.8 billion primarily due to higher average prices of agricultural commodities and increased sales volumes. Manufacturing costs for 2007 and 2006 include a $21 million and $62 million charge, respectively, for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. In addition, cost of products sold increased $874 million, or 3%, due to currency exchange rate fluctuations. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Selling, general, and administrative expenses of $1.2 billion were comparable to 2006 and include $25 million of currency exchange rate increases. Excluding the impact of currency exchange rate increases, selling, general and administrative expenses decreased $23 million principally due to 2006 selling, general and administrative expenses including $20 million of severance costs associated with the closure of a citric acid plant. During 2007 and 2006, the Company issued option grants and restricted stock awards to officers and key employees pursuant to the Companys Long term Management Incentive Program. Certain officers and key employees of the Company receiving option grants and restricted stock awards are eligible for retirement. Compensation expense related to option grants and restricted stock awards issued to these retirement eligible employees is recognized in earnings on the date of grant. Selling, general, and administrative expense for 2007 and 2006 includes compensation expense related to option grants and restricted stock awards granted to retirement eligible employees of $30 million and $31 million, respectively. Other income increased $1.0 billion primarily due to the $440 million Wilmar Gain, a $357 million gain on the sale of the Companys equity securities of Tyson Foods, Inc. and Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc., a $153 million gain on the sale of the Companys interest in Agricore United, and a $53 million gain on the sale of the Companys Arkady food ingredient business. Other income also includes a $46 million charge related to the repurchase of $400 million of the Companys outstanding debentures. Excluding these items, other income increased $73 million primarily due to a $120 million increase in equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates, and a $53 million increase in investment income, partially offset by a $69 million increase in interest expense and a $27 million reduction in gains on sales of long lived assets. The increase in equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates is primarily due to higher valuations of the Companys private equity fund investments and improved operating results of the Companys Asian oilseed crushing ventures. Interest expense and investment income increased primarily due to increased average borrowing and investment levels. Operating profit by segment is as follows: 2007 2006 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing $ 1,117 $ 599 $ 518 Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 485 432 53 Bioproducts 634 445 189 Total Corn Processing 1,119 877 242 Agricultural Services 516 275 241 Other Food, Feed, and Industrial 214 159 55 Financial 195 151 44 Total Other 409 310 99 Total Segment Operating Profit 3,161 2,061 1,100 Corporate (7 ) (206 ) 199 Earnings Before Income Taxes $ 3,154 $ 1,855 $ 1,299 Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Oilseeds Processing operating profits increased $518 million to $1.1 billion due to the $440 million Wilmar Gain and improved market conditions in all geographic regions. North American processing results improved principally due to abundant oilseed supplies in the United States and good demand for vegetable oil and soybean meal. Vegetable oil values improved as the markets anticipate new demand from the developing United States biodiesel industry. North American processing results were also favorably impacted by lower plant operating costs resulting from improved capacity utilization. Asian joint venture results improved due to improved palm processing operating results partially offset by decreased soy crushing operating results. European processing results improved principally due to abundant oilseed supplies in Europe and strong demand for vegetable oil. The strong demand for vegetable oil is the result of strong biodiesel demand. These increases were partially offset by decreased biodiesel operating profits resulting from higher vegetable oil prices, increased market production capacity, and lower diesel fuel prices. South American processing results declined principally due to last years $27 million credit for Brazilian transactional taxes. Excluding the impact of last years credit for Brazilian transactional taxes, South American processing results improved principally due to increased fertilizer margins. The improvement in fertilizer margins was primarily due to higher average sales prices due to improved fertilizer demand combined with stable raw material costs. Operating profits for 2007 include a $5 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Operating profits for 2006 include a $14 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets and a $6 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47. Corn Processing operating profits increased $242 million to $1.1 billion principally due to higher average selling prices and lower energy costs, partially offset by lower ethanol sales volumes and higher net corn costs. Net corn costs have increased approximately 60% during 2007 due to significant demand increases for corn resulting primarily from the increase in corn derived ethanol industry capacity. Agricultural commodity market concerns regarding the expected decline in the ending 2006 corn crop carryover has also contributed to the increase in corn costs. Sweeteners and Starches operating profits increased $53 million due primarily to higher average sales prices and lower energy costs. Sales prices have increased principally due to good demand for sweetener and starch products. These increases were partially offset by increased net corn costs. Sweeteners and Starches operating profits for 2006 include a $5 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47. Bioproducts operating profits increased $189 million primarily due to higher ethanol average selling prices and lower energy costs, partially offset by increased net corn costs and lower ethanol sales volumes. Ethanol average sales prices increased principally due to strong demand from gasoline refiners and higher gasoline prices. Ethanol sales volumes decreased as 2006 sales volumes exceeded production due to the release of inventories built up in anticipation of refiners replacing MTBE with ethanol. Bioproducts operating results for 2007 include a $1 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Bioproducts operating results for 2006 include a $6 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets, a $2 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47, and $6 million of costs related to the closure of a citric acid plant. Agricultural Services operating profits increased $241 million to $516 million principally due to a $153 million gain from the sale of the Companys interest in Agricore United, a Canadian business which specialized in crop input, crop protection services, and grain marketing and merchandising. Excluding the Agricore United gain, Agricultural Services operating profits increased $88 million to $363 million principally due to improved global grain merchandising operating results and, to a lesser extent, improved transportation and North American origination operating results. Global grain merchandising results improved as regional production imbalances allowed the Company to capitalize on merchandising opportunities. North American river transportation operating results increased primarily due to increased barge freight rates created by strong demand for barge capacity. North American origination operating results improved due to good export demand for agricultural commodities and higher ocean freight rates. Agricultural Services operating profits for 2007 include a $12 million trade disruption insurance recovery related to Hurricane Katrina. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Other operating profits increased $99 million to $409 million. Other Food, Feed, and Industrial operating profits increased $55 million and include a $53 million gain on the sale of the Companys Arkady food ingredient business and a $15 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Other Food, Feed, and Industrial operating results for 2006 include a $51 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets, a $2 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47, a $9 million charge representing the Companys share of a charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets reported by an unconsolidated affiliate of the Company, a $17 million gain from the sale of long lived assets, and a $16 million charge related to exiting the European animal feed business. Excluding the effect of these 2007 and 2006 items, Other Food, Feed, and Industrial operating profits declined $44 million due primarily to cocoa processing operating results declining from prior year levels and costs related to the start up of the Companys natural plastics production operations. Cocoa processing operating results declined primarily due to increased industry production capacity which caused downward pressure on cocoa processing margins. These increases were partially offset by improved operating results of the Companys wheat flour processing and protein specialty operations. Other Financial operating profits increased $44 million principally due to increased valuations of the Companys private equity fund investments and higher operating results of the Companys futures commission merchant business, partially offset by lower operating results of the Companys captive insurance operations. The results of the Companys captive insurance operations for 2007 include a $12 million charge related to a Hurricane Katrina trade disruption insurance settlement. Corporate expense decreased $199 million to $7 million principally due to a $345 million increase in realized securities gains principally resulting from sales of the Companys equity securities of Tyson Foods, Inc. and Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc. and a $103 million reduction in unallocated interest expense due principally to higher levels of invested funds and higher interest rates. These decreases were partially offset by a $206 million charge, compared to a $12 million credit in the prior year, related to the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations and a $46 million charge related to the repurchase of $400 million of the Companys outstanding debentures. Income taxes increased due principally to higher pretax earnings and the absence of last years $36 million income tax credit related to the recognition of federal and state income tax credits and adjustments resulting from the reconciliation of filed tax returns to the previously estimated tax provision. The Companys effective tax rate during 2007 was 31.5% and, after excluding the effect of last years $36 million tax credit, was 31.2% for the prior year. The increase in the Companys effective tax rate is primarily due to changes in the geographic mix of pretax earnings. 2006 Compared to 2005 As an agricultural based commodity business, the Company is subject to a variety of market factors which affect the Companys operating results. Strong biodiesel demand in Europe continued to create increased vegetable oil demand and has positively impacted rapeseed crushing margins in Europe. Abundant oilseed supplies and strong protein meal demand have positively impacted oilseed crushing margins in North America. A good corn supply resulting in lower price levels for corn favorably impacted corn processing operations, while ethanol experienced good demand due to gasoline refiners replacing MTBE with ethanol. Solid demand for sweetener and starch products has also improved corn processing results. During the first half of 2006, hurricanes in the gulf coast region of the United States disrupted North American grain origination and agricultural commodity export operations, negatively impacting export sales volumes. The gulf coast hurricanes also disrupted river transportation, resulting in increased barge demand and barge freight rates. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Net earnings increased principally due to improved operating results of Oilseeds Processing and Corn Processing. In addition, net earnings also increased due to a $36 million reduction in income tax expense related to the recognition of federal and state income tax credits and adjustments resulting from the reconciliation of filed tax returns to the previously estimated tax provision. Earnings before income taxes for 2006 include charges of $31 million resulting from the Companys adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) Number 123(R), Share Based Payment, $15 million resulting from the Companys adoption of FIN 47, $71 million related to abandonment and write down of long lived assets, $9 million representing the Companys share of a charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets reported by an unconsolidated affiliate of the Company, and $22 million associated with the closure of a citric acid plant and exiting the European animal feed business. Earnings before income taxes for 2006 also include credits of $12 million from the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations, $17 million from the sale of long lived assets, $46 million related to Brazilian transactional tax credits, and $40 million related to realized securities gains. Earnings before income taxes for 2005 included credits of $114 million from the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations, $114 million of realized securities gain from the sale of Tate & Lyle PLC shares, and $45 million representing the Companys equity share of the gain reported by the Companys unconsolidated affiliate, Compagnie Industrielle et Financiere des Produits Amylaces SA (CIP), upon the sale of its interest in Tate & Lyle PLC (the CIP Gain). Earnings before income taxes for 2005 also include a $42 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Analysis of Statements of Earnings Net sales and other operating income increased 2% to $36.6 billion due primarily to higher average selling prices of agricultural commodities and increased sales volumes and selling prices of corn processing products, partially offset by decreased average selling prices of cocoa products and currency exchange rate decreases of $415 million. Net sales and other operating income by segment are as follows: 2006 2005 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing $ 11,867 $ 11,803 $ 64 Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 2,133 1,905 228 Bioproducts 2,727 2,459 268 Total Corn Processing 4,860 4,364 496 Agricultural Services 15,440 15,198 242 Other Food, Feed, and Industrial 4,354 4,506 (152 ) Financial 75 72 3 Total Other 4,429 4,578 (149 ) Total $ 36,596 $ 35,943 653 Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Oilseeds Processing sales increased $64 million to $11.9 billion principally due to higher average selling prices of South American oilseed exports and of vegetable oil. These increases were partially offset by lower average selling prices of protein meal. Corn Processing sales increased 11% to $4.9 billion due to sales increases in both Sweeteners and Starches and Bioproducts. Sweeteners and Starches sales increased due to higher average selling prices and sales volumes. Sales volumes and prices have increased primarily due to solid demand for sweetener and starch products. Bioproducts sales increased primarily due to increased sales volumes and average selling prices of ethanol, partially offset by lower average selling prices of lysine. The increases in ethanol sales volumes and sales prices were principally due to increased demand from gasoline refiners as refiners used ethanol to replace MTBE as a gasoline additive and to increased gasoline prices. Agricultural Services sales increased 2% to $15.4 billion primarily due to increased commodity prices in North America and, to a lesser extent, increased barge freight rates as the gulf coast hurricanes reduced barge capacities and created strong demand for North American river transportation. These increases were partially offset by decreased commodity sales volumes in North America. The decreased sales volumes were primarily due to disruptions in North American grain origination and export activities caused by the hurricanes in the gulf coast region. Other sales decreased 3% to $4.4 billion primarily due to decreased average selling prices of cocoa products and lower sales volumes of formula feed products. These decreases were partially offset by increased average selling prices of wheat flour products due to higher commodity prices. Cost of products sold increased $118 million to $33.6 billion due primarily to higher average prices of agricultural commodities and increased manufacturing costs, partially offset by currency exchange rate decreases of $389 million. Manufacturing costs increased $399 million primarily due to increased energy costs, an $86 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets, and increased employee related costs. Selling, general, and administrative expenses increased $112 million to $1.2 billion principally due to increased employee related costs, including a $31 million charge related to the adoption of SFAS 123(R), $20 million of severance costs associated with the closure of a citric acid plant, and increased provisions for doubtful accounts. Other income decreased $84 million due primarily to a $73 million decrease in realized securities gains, a $55 million decrease in equity in earnings of affiliates, and a $39 million increase in interest expense, partially offset by a $69 million increase in investment income. The decrease in realized securities gains is primarily due to the $114 million realized securities gain in 2005 from the sale of Tate & Lyle PLC shares, partially offset by $40 million of realized securities gains during 2006. The decrease in equity in earnings of affiliates is primarily due to the CIP Gain in 2005 and lower valuations of the Companys private equity fund investments in 2006, partially offset by improved earnings of the Companys Asian oilseed crushing ventures. Interest expense increased primarily due to higher average borrowing levels and interest rates. Investment income increased primarily due to the reversal of $19 million of Brazilian transactional taxes previously assessed on investment income upon positive resolution in the Brazilian Supreme Court, higher levels of invested funds, and higher interest rates. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Operating profit by segment is as follows: 2006 2005 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing $ 599 $ 345 $ 254 Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 431 271 160 Bioproducts 446 259 187 Total Corn Processing 877 530 347 Agricultural Services 275 262 13 Other Food, Feed, and Industrial 159 263 (104 ) Financial 151 151 Total Other 310 414 (104 ) Total Segment Operating Profit 2,061 1,551 510 Corporate (206 ) (35 ) (171 ) Earnings Before Income Taxes $ 1,855 $ 1,516 $ 339 Oilseeds Processing operating profits increased $254 million to $599 million primarily due to improved market conditions in all geographic regions. European processing results improved principally due to strong demand for biodiesel and abundant rapeseed supplies in Europe. This strong demand for biodiesel in Europe increased European vegetable oil demand and resulted in improved oilseeds processing results. Abundant rapeseed supplies in Europe resulted in lower rapeseed price levels. North American processing results improved principally due to abundant oilseed supplies in the United States and good demand for soybean meal. Vegetable oil values were solid as the markets anticipate new demand from the developing United States biodiesel industry. South American operating results increased primarily due to improved origination activities and a $27 million credit for Brazilian transactional taxes. Operating results in Asia increased due to improved soy crushing margins and improved palm operations. Operating profits include a $14 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets and a $6 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47. Operating profits for 2005 include a charge of $13 million for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Corn Processing operating profits increased $347 million to $877 million primarily due to higher average selling prices, increased sales volumes, and lower net corn costs, partially offset by increased energy costs. Sweeteners and Starches operating profits increased $160 million due primarily to decreased net corn costs and higher average sales prices and sales volumes. Sales volumes and prices have increased primarily due to good demand for sweetener and starch products. These increases were partially offset by increased energy costs. Sweeteners and Starches operating profits include a $5 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47. Bioproducts operating profits increased $187 million primarily due to higher ethanol sales volumes and average selling prices and decreased net corn costs, partially offset by increased energy costs and lower lysine average selling prices. The increases in ethanol sales volumes and average sales prices were principally due to increased demand from gasoline refiners as refiners used ethanol to replace MTBE as a gasoline additive and from increased gasoline prices. Bioproducts operating profits include a $6 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets, a $2 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47, and $6 million of costs related to the closure of a citric acid plant. Bioproducts operating profits for 2005 include a $16 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Agricultural Services operating profits increased $13 million to $275 million as improved results from transportation operations were partially offset by a decline in global grain merchandising and North American origination operating results. North American river transportation operating results increased primarily due to increased barge freight rates created by strong demand for barge capacity. This increase was partially offset by increased fuel costs. The gulf coast hurricanes negatively impacted North American origination and export activities during the first half of 2006. Other operating profits decreased $104 million to $310 million. Other Food, Feed, and Industrial operating results decreased $104 million due primarily to a $51 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets, a $2 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47, and a $9 million charge representing the Companys share of a charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets reported by an unconsolidated affiliate of the Company. In addition, cocoa processing, natural health and nutrition, and formula feed operating results declined from prior year levels. Cocoa processing operating results declined primarily due to increased industry capacity which caused downward pressure on cocoa finished product prices. Formula feed operating results declined due to costs associated with exiting the European animal feed business. Other Food, Feed, and Industrial operating profits include a $17 million gain from the sale of long lived assets. Other Food, Feed, and Industrial operating results for 2005 include a $13 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Other Financial operating profits are comparable to prior year levels as improvements in the Companys captive insurance operations and futures commission merchant business offset lower valuations of the Companys private equity fund investments. Corporate decreased $171 million due primarily to a $102 million decrease in income from the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations, the $114 million realized securities gain in 2005 from the sale of Tate & Lyle PLC shares, the CIP Gain in 2005, and a $22 million charge in 2006 upon the adoption of SFAS 123(R), partially offset by the aforementioned $19 million reversal of Brazilian transactional taxes and a $97 million reduction in unallocated interest expense. The reduction in unallocated interest expense is due principally to higher levels of invested funds and higher interest rates. Income taxes increased due principally to higher pretax earnings. This increase was partially offset by a $36 million reduction in income tax expense related to the recognition of federal and state income tax credits and adjustments resulting from the reconciliation of filed tax returns to the previously estimated tax provision. The Companys effective tax rate for 2006 was 29.3% as compared to 31.1% for 2005. Excluding the effect of the $36 million tax credit, the Companys effective tax rate was 31.2% for 2006 and, after excluding the effect of the CIP Gain, was 32.1% for 2005. No tax was provided on the CIP Gain in 2005, as CIP is a corporate joint venture of the Company and the proceeds from the sale are permanently reinvested. Excluding the effect of the $36 million tax credit in 2006 and the CIP Gain in 2005, the decrease in the Companys effective tax rate is primarily due to changes in the geographic mix of pretax earnings. Liquidity and Capital Resources The Companys objective is to have sufficient liquidity, balance sheet strength, and financial flexibility to fund the operating and capital requirements of a capital intensive agricultural based commodity business. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) At June 30, 2007, the Company continued to show substantial liquidity with working capital of $7.3 billion and a current ratio, defined as current assets divided by current liabilities, of 1.9 to 1. Included in working capital is $875 million of cash, cash equivalents, and short term marketable securities as well as $4.4 billion of readily marketable commodity inventories. Cash generated from operating activities totaled $303 million for the year compared to $1.4 billion last year. This decrease was primarily due to an increase in working capital requirements principally related to increased prices and quantities of agricultural commodity inventories and increased receivables, partially offset by increased cash earnings. Despite increased investment in property, plant, and equipment, cash used in investing activities decreased $714 million for the year to $355 million due primarily to increased sales of marketable securities and proceeds from sales of businesses including the sale of the Companys equity interests in Tyson Foods, Inc., Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc. and Agricore United. Cash used in financing activities was $398 million compared to cash generated by financing activities of $284 million last year. Net long term borrowings increased primarily as a result of the issuance of $1.2 billion of convertible senior notes in February 2007 (described in detail below), compared to $600 million of 30 year debentures issued in September 2005. This increase was partially offset by $283 million of increased payments on long term debt principally related to the Company retiring $400 million of debentures in 2007. Capital resources were strengthened as shown by the increase in the Companys net worth from $9.8 billion to $11.3 billion. The Companys ratio of long term debt to total capital (the sum of the Companys long term debt and shareholders equity) was 30% at June 30, 2007, and 29% at June 30, 2006. This ratio is a measure of the Companys long term liquidity and is an indicator of financial flexibility. The Company currently has $3.9 billion of commercial paper and commercial bank lines available to meet seasonal cash requirements of which $2.6 billion are committed and $1.3 billion are uncommitted. At June 30, 2007, the Company had $468 million of short term debt outstanding. Standard & Poors, Moodys, and Fitch rate the Companys commercial paper as A 1, P 1, and F1, respectively, and rate the Companys long term debt as A, A2, and A+, respectively. In addition to the cash flow generated from operations, the Company has access to equity and debt capital through numerous alternatives from public and private sources in domestic and international markets. In February 2007, the Company issued $1.2 billion principal amount of convertible senior notes due in 2014 (the Notes) in a private placement. The Notes were issued at par and bear interest at a rate of 0.875% per year, payable semiannually. The Notes are convertible based on an initial conversion rate of 22.8343 shares per $1,000 principal amount of Notes (which is equal to an initial conversion price of approximately $43.79 per share). The Notes may be converted, subject to adjustment, only under the following circumstances: 1) during any calendar quarter beginning after March 31, 2007, if the closing price of the Companys common stock for at least 20 trading days in the 30 consecutive trading days ending on the last trading day of the immediately preceding quarter is more than 140% of the applicable conversion price per share, which is $1,000 divided by the then applicable conversion rate, 2) during the five consecutive business day period immediately after any five consecutive trading day period (the note measurement period) in which the average of the trading price per $1,000 principal amount of Notes was equal to or less than 98% of the average of the product of the closing price of the Companys common stock and the conversion rate at each date during the note measurement period, 3) if the Company makes specified distributions to its common stockholders or specified corporate transactions occur, or 4) at any time on or after January 15, 2014, through the business day preceding the maturity date. Upon conversion, a holder would receive an amount in cash equal to the lesser of 1) $1,000 and 2) the conversion value, as defined. If the conversion value exceeds $1,000, the Company will deliver, at the Companys election, cash or common stock or a combination of cash and common stock for the conversion value in excess of $1,000. If the Notes are converted in connection with a change in control, as defined, the Company may be required to provide a make whole premium in the form of an increase in the conversion rate, subject to a stated maximum amount. In addition, in the event of a change in control, the holders may require the Company to purchase all or a portion of their Notes at a purchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Concurrent with the issuance of the Notes, the Company purchased call options in private transactions at a cost of $299 million. The purchased call options allow the Company to receive shares of its common stock and or cash from the counterparties equal to the amounts of common stock and or cash related to the excess of the current market price of the Companys common stock over the exercise price of the purchased call options. In addition, the Company sold warrants in private transactions to acquire, subject to customary anti dilution adjustments, 26.3 million shares of its common stock at an exercise price of $62.56 per share and received proceeds of $170 million. If the average price of the Companys common stock during a defined period ending on or about the respective settlement dates exceeds the exercise price of the warrants, the warrants will be settled, at the Companys option, in cash or shares of common stock. The purchased call options and warrants are intended to reduce the potential dilution upon future conversions of the Notes by effectively increasing the initial conversion price to $62.56 per share. Upon closing of the sale of the Notes, $370 million of the net proceeds from the Note issuance and the proceeds from the warrant transactions were used to repurchase 10.3 million shares of the Companys common stock under the Companys stock repurchase program. As of June 30, 2007, none of the conditions permitting conversion of the Notes had been satisfied. In addition, as of June 30, 2007, the market price of the Companys common stock was not greater than the exercise price of the purchased call options or warrants. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements In the normal course of business, the Company enters into contracts and commitments which obligate the Company to make payments in the future. The following table sets forth the Companys significant future obligations by time period. Purchases include commodity based contracts entered into in the normal course of business, which are further described in Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, energy related purchase contracts entered into in the normal course of business, and other purchase obligations related to the Companys normal business activities. Where applicable, information included in the Companys consolidated financial statements and notes is cross referenced in this table. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Payments Due by Period Contractual Note Less than 2 3 4 5 Over Obligations Reference Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years (In millions) Purchases Inventories $ 11,113 $ 10,312 $ 535 $ 159 $ 107 Energy 429 269 152 7 1 Other 217 67 94 43 13 Total purchases 11,759 10,648 781 209 121 Short term debt Note 7 468 468 Long term debt Note 7 4,897 65 92 425 4,315 Estimated interest payments 5,752 290 509 474 4,479 Operating leases Note 12 900 318 241 132 209 Estimated pension and other postretirement plan contributions Note 13 1,045 79 173 195 598 Total $ 24,821 $ 11,868 $ 1,796 $ 1,435 $ 9,722 At June 30, 2007, the Company estimates it will spend approximately $3.0 billion over the next four years to complete approved capital projects and acquisitions. The Company is a limited partner in various private equity funds which invest primarily in emerging markets. At June 30, 2007, the Companys carrying value of these limited partnership investments was $165 million. The Company has future capital commitments related to these partnerships of $138 million and expects the majority of these additional capital commitments, if called for, to be funded by cash flows generated by the partnerships. The Company also has outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds of $339 million at June 30, 2007. In addition, the Company has entered into agreements, primarily debt guarantee agreements related to equity method investees, which could obligate the Company to make future payments. The Companys liability under these agreements arises only if the primary entity fails to perform its contractual obligation. The Company has collateral for a portion of these contingent obligations. At June 30, 2007, these contingent obligations totaled approximately $98 million. Amounts outstanding for the primary entity under these contingent obligations were $51 million at June 30, 2007. Critical Accounting Policies The process of preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the carrying values of the Companys assets and liabilities as well as the recognition of revenues and expenses. These estimates and judgments are based on the Companys historical experience and managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Certain of the Companys accounting policies are considered critical, as these policies are important to the depiction of the Companys financial statements and require significant or complex judgment by management. Management has discussed with the Companys Audit Committee the development, selection, disclosure, and application of these critical accounting policies. Following are the accounting policies management considers critical to the Companys financial statements. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Inventories and Derivatives Certain of the Companys merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, forward fixed price purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and options contracts are valued at estimated market values. These merchandisable agricultural commodities are freely traded, have quoted market prices, and may be sold without significant additional processing. Management estimates market value based on exchange quoted prices, adjusted for differences in local markets. Changes in the market values of these inventories and contracts are recognized in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. If management used different methods or factors to estimate market value, amounts reported as inventories and cost of products sold could differ. Additionally, if market conditions change subsequent to year end, amounts reported in future periods as inventories and cost of products sold could differ. The Company, from time to time, uses derivative contracts to fix the purchase price of anticipated volumes of commodities to be purchased and processed in a future month, to fix the purchase price of the Companys anticipated natural gas requirements for certain production facilities, and to fix the sales price of anticipated volumes of ethanol. These derivative contracts are designated as cash flow hedges. The change in the market value of such derivative contracts has historically been, and is expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. If it is determined that the derivative instruments used are no longer effective at offsetting changes in the price of the hedged item, then the changes in the market value of these exchange traded futures contracts would be recorded in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. Employee Benefit Plans The Company provides substantially all domestic employees and employees at certain international subsidiaries with pension benefits. The Company also provides substantially all domestic salaried employees with postretirement health care and life insurance benefits. In order to measure the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans, management makes several estimates and assumptions, including interest rates used to discount certain liabilities, rates of return on assets set aside to fund these plans, rates of compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and anticipated future health care costs. These estimates and assumptions are based on the Companys historical experience combined with managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Management also uses third party specialists to assist in measuring the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans. If management used different estimates and assumptions regarding these plans, the funded status of the plans could vary significantly, and the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Income Taxes The Company frequently faces challenges from domestic and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company records reserves for probable exposures. Deferred tax assets represent items to be used as tax deductions or credits in future tax returns, and the related tax benefit has already been recognized in the Companys income statement. Realization of certain deferred tax assets reflects the Companys tax planning strategies. Valuation allowances related to these deferred tax assets have been established to the extent the realization of the tax benefit is not probable. Based on managements evaluation of the Companys tax position, it is believed the amounts related to these tax exposures are appropriately accrued. To the extent the Company were to favorably resolve matters for which accruals have been established or be required to pay amounts in excess of the aforementioned reserves, the Companys effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be impacted. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and affiliated corporate joint ventures accounted for on the equity method are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by unpredictable factors such as weather, plantings, government (domestic and foreign) farm programs and policies, changes in population growth, changes in standards of living, and production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned unpredictable factors, therefore, may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and profitability of the Companys fixed asset base in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its factories. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment and technology related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. Assets are abandoned after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of this fixed asset base, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Valuation of Marketable Securities and Investments in Affiliates The Company classifies the majority of its marketable securities as available for sale and carries these securities at fair value. Investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings. For publicly traded securities, the fair value of the Companys investments is readily available based on quoted market prices. For non publicly traded securities, managements assessment of fair value is based on valuation methodologies including discounted cash flows and estimates of sales proceeds. In the event of a decline in fair value of an investment below carrying value, management may be required to determine if the decline in fair value is other than temporary. In evaluating the nature of a decline in the fair value of an investment, management considers the market conditions, trends of earnings, discounted cash flows, trading volumes, and other key measures of the investment as well as the Companys ability and intent to hold the investment. When such a decline in value is deemed to be other than temporary, an impairment loss is recognized in the current period operating results to the extent of the decline. See Notes 3 and 5 to the Companys consolidated financial statements for information regarding the Companys marketable securities and investments in affiliates. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these marketable securities, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) The Company is a limited partner in various private equity funds which invest primarily in emerging markets. The Company accounts for these limited partnerships using the equity method of accounting. Therefore, the Company is recording in the consolidated statement of earnings its proportional share of the limited partnerships net income or loss. The limited partnerships value their investments at fair value. Thus, unrealized gains and losses related to the change in fair value of these investments are recorded in the limited partnerships statements of earnings. The valuation of these investments, as determined by the general partner, can be subjective, and the values may vary significantly. Some of the factors causing the subjectivity and volatility of these valuations include the illiquidity and minority positions of these investments, currency exchange rate fluctuations, less regulated securities exchanges, and the inherent business risks and limitations present in the emerging market countries. The Company records the results of these limited partnerships based on the information provided to the Company by the general partner. Due to the subjectivity and volatility in valuing these investments, the fair value of these investments, and thus the Companys results, could vary significantly over future periods. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in commodities futures prices, marketable equity security prices, market prices of limited partnerships investments, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and price of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to unpredictable factors such as weather, plantings, government (domestic and foreign) farm programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. To reduce price risk caused by market fluctuations, the Company generally follows a policy of using exchange traded futures and options contracts to minimize its net position of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories and forward cash purchase and sales contracts. The Company will also use exchange traded futures and options contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the volatility of the relationship between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contracts defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company from time to time enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) A sensitivity analysis has been prepared to estimate the Companys exposure to market risk of its daily net commodity position. The Companys daily net commodity position consists of inventories, related purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures contracts, including those contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements. The fair value of such daily net commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing each net position at quoted futures prices. Market risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in such prices. Actual results may differ. 2007 2006 Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest long position $ 703 $ 70 $ 510 $ 51 Highest short position 565 57 574 57 Average position long (short) 180 18 (203 ) (20 ) The change in fair value of the average position for 2007 compared to 2006 was principally a result of changes in the daily net commodity position and commodity prices. Marketable Equity Securities Marketable equity securities, which are recorded at fair value, have exposure to price risk. The fair value of marketable equity securities is based on quoted market prices. Risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted market prices. Actual results may differ. 2007 2006 (In millions) Fair value $ 227 $ 640 Market risk 23 64 The decrease in fair value for 2007 compared to 2006 resulted primarily from disposals of securities partially offset by increases in fair market value of certain securities. Limited Partnerships The Company is a limited partner in various private equity funds which invest primarily in emerging markets. The Company accounts for these limited partnerships using the equity method of accounting. Therefore, the Company is recording in the consolidated statement of earnings its proportional share of the limited partnerships net income or loss. The limited partnerships value their investments at fair value. Risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in market prices of the limited partnerships investments. Actual results may differ. 2007 2006 (In millions) Fair value of partnerships investments $ 188 $ 210 Market risk 19 21 The decrease in fair value for 2007 compared to 2006 resulted primarily from returns of capital. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) Currencies In order to reduce the risk of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, except for amounts permanently invested as described below, the Company follows a policy of entering into currency exchange forward contracts to mitigate its foreign currency risk related to transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currencies applicable to each of its various entities. The instruments used are readily marketable exchange traded futures contracts and forward contracts with banks. The changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $5.4 billion at June 30, 2007, and $4.5 billion at June 30, 2006. This increase is due to an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and appreciation of foreign currency exchange rates. The potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $543 million and $454 million for 2007 and 2006, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical .5 % decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2007 2006 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 4,927 $ 4,387 Excess of fair value over carrying value 110 257 Market risk 204 218 The increase in fair value of long term debt in 2007 resulted principally from the Companys issuance of $1.2 billion convertible senior notes partially offset by repayment of $400 million of debentures and other principal payments of long term debt. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) The Company conducts its business in many countries. For the majority of the Companys subsidiaries located outside the United States, the local currency is the functional currency. Revenues and expenses denominated in foreign currencies are translated into U.S. dollars at the weighted average exchange rates for the applicable periods. Fluctuations in the exchange rates of foreign currencies, primarily the Euro and British pound, as compared to the U.S. dollar will result in corresponding fluctuations in the relative U.S. dollar value of the Companys revenues and expenses. The impact of these currency exchange rate changes, where significant, is discussed below. The Company measures the performance of its business segments using key operating statistics such as segment operating profit and return on fixed capital investment, and return on net assets. The Companys operating results can vary significantly due to changes in unpredictable factors such as fluctuations in energy prices, weather conditions, crop plantings, global government farm programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. Due to these unpredictable factors, the Company does not provide forward looking information in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 2007 Compared to 2006 As an agricultural based commodity business, the Company is subject to a variety of market factors which affect the Companys operating results. Strong biodiesel demand in Europe continued to create increased vegetable oil demand and positively impacted rapeseed crushing margins in Europe. Abundant oilseed supplies, improved vegetable oil values, and strong protein meal demand have positively impacted oilseed crushing margins in North America. Increased ethanol contracted selling prices, continuing strong ethanol demand, and solid demand for sweetener and starch products improved corn processing results. These increases in corn processing results were partially offset by higher net corn costs. Global grain merchandising opportunities resulting from regional production imbalances also improved operating results. North American river transportation operations were favorably impacted by strong demand for river transportation services which increased barge freight rates. Increasing commodity price levels negatively affected LIFO inventory valuations partially offsetting the improvements in operating results. Net earnings increased principally due to improved operating results in all of the Companys operating segments. Earnings before income taxes for 2007 include a gain of $440 million related to the exchange of the Companys interests in certain Asian joint ventures for shares of Wilmar International Limited (the Wilmar Gain), a $357 million realized securities gain from sales of the Companys equity securities of Tyson Foods, Inc. and Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc., a gain of $153 million from the sale of the Companys interest in Agricore United and a $53 million gain from the sale of the Companys Arkady food ingredient business. Earnings before income taxes for 2007 also include charges of $206 million from the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations, $46 million related to the repurchase of $400 million of the Companys outstanding debentures, and $21 million related to abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Net earnings for 2006 include a $36 million reduction in income tax expense related to the recognition of federal and state income tax credits and adjustments resulting from the reconciliation of filed tax returns to the previously estimated tax provision. Earnings before income taxes for 2006 include charges of $15 million resulting from the Companys adoption of Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation Number 47, Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations, an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 143 (FIN 47), $71 million related to abandonment and write down of long lived assets, $9 million representing the Companys share of a charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets reported by an unconsolidated affiliate of the Company, and $22 million associated with the closure of a citric acid plant and exiting the European animal feed business. Earnings before income taxes for 2006 also include credits of $12 million from the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations, $17 million from the sale of long lived assets, $46 million related to Brazilian transactional tax credits, and $40 million related to realized securities gains. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Analysis of Statements of Earnings Net sales and other operating income increased 20% to $44.0 billion due primarily to increased selling prices of agricultural commodities, oilseed and corn processing products and, to a lesser extent, increased sales volumes of agricultural commodities and oilseed processing products. In addition, net sales and other operating income increased $916 million, or 3%, due to currency exchange rate fluctuations. Net sales and other operating income by segment are as follows: 2007 2006 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing $ 13,937 $ 11,867 $ 2,070 Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 2,378 2,133 245 Bioproducts 3,064 2,727 337 Total Corn Processing 5,442 4,860 582 Agricultural Services 19,706 15,440 4,266 Other Food, Feed, and Industrial 4,840 4,354 486 Financial 93 75 18 Total Other 4,933 4,429 504 Total $ 44,018 $ 36,596 $ 7,422 Oilseeds Processing sales increased 17% to $13.9 billion due principally to increased average selling prices of vegetable oil and increased sales volumes of vegetable oil and biodiesel. Vegetable oil selling prices and volumes improved as the markets anticipate new demand from the developing United States biodiesel industry. Biodiesel sales volumes increased due to additional production capacity. Corn Processing sales increased 12% to $5.4 billion principally due to increased sales of Bioproducts and, to a lesser extent, increased sales of Sweeteners and Starches. Bioproducts sales increased primarily due to higher average selling prices of ethanol, partially offset by lower sales volumes. Ethanol average selling prices increased principally due to higher gasoline prices. Ethanol sales volumes decreased as 2006 sales volumes exceeded production due to the release of inventories built up in anticipation of refiners replacing MTBE with ethanol. Sweeteners and Starches sales increased primarily due to higher average selling prices resulting from good demand for sweetener and starch products. Agricultural Services sales increased 28% to $19.7 billion principally due to increased agricultural commodity prices and increased sales volumes. The increase in commodity prices is primarily due to higher average market prices of corn in North America which have increased 60% from the prior year. Increased sales volumes of global grain merchandising activities also contributed to the increase in Agricultural Services sales. Other sales increased 11% to $4.9 billion primarily due to higher average selling prices of wheat flour products and, to a lesser extent, increased sales volumes and higher average selling prices of cocoa products. Cost of products sold increased 21% to $40.8 billion primarily due to higher average prices of agricultural commodities and increased sales volumes. Manufacturing costs for 2007 and 2006 include a $21 million and $62 million charge, respectively, for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. In addition, cost of products sold increased $874 million, or 3%, due to currency exchange rate fluctuations. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Selling, general, and administrative expenses of $1.2 billion were comparable to 2006 and include $25 million of currency exchange rate increases. Excluding the impact of currency exchange rate increases, selling, general and administrative expenses decreased $23 million principally due to 2006 selling, general and administrative expenses including $20 million of severance costs associated with the closure of a citric acid plant. During 2007 and 2006, the Company issued option grants and restricted stock awards to officers and key employees pursuant to the Companys Long term Management Incentive Program. Certain officers and key employees of the Company receiving option grants and restricted stock awards are eligible for retirement. Compensation expense related to option grants and restricted stock awards issued to these retirement eligible employees is recognized in earnings on the date of grant. Selling, general, and administrative expense for 2007 and 2006 includes compensation expense related to option grants and restricted stock awards granted to retirement eligible employees of $30 million and $31 million, respectively. Other income increased $1.0 billion primarily due to the $440 million Wilmar Gain, a $357 million gain on the sale of the Companys equity securities of Tyson Foods, Inc. and Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc., a $153 million gain on the sale of the Companys interest in Agricore United, and a $53 million gain on the sale of the Companys Arkady food ingredient business. Other income also includes a $46 million charge related to the repurchase of $400 million of the Companys outstanding debentures. Excluding these items, other income increased $73 million primarily due to a $120 million increase in equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates, and a $53 million increase in investment income, partially offset by a $69 million increase in interest expense and a $27 million reduction in gains on sales of long lived assets. The increase in equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates is primarily due to higher valuations of the Companys private equity fund investments and improved operating results of the Companys Asian oilseed crushing ventures. Interest expense and investment income increased primarily due to increased average borrowing and investment levels. Operating profit by segment is as follows: 2007 2006 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing $ 1,117 $ 599 $ 518 Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 485 432 53 Bioproducts 634 445 189 Total Corn Processing 1,119 877 242 Agricultural Services 516 275 241 Other Food, Feed, and Industrial 214 159 55 Financial 195 151 44 Total Other 409 310 99 Total Segment Operating Profit 3,161 2,061 1,100 Corporate (7 ) (206 ) 199 Earnings Before Income Taxes $ 3,154 $ 1,855 $ 1,299 Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Oilseeds Processing operating profits increased $518 million to $1.1 billion due to the $440 million Wilmar Gain and improved market conditions in all geographic regions. North American processing results improved principally due to abundant oilseed supplies in the United States and good demand for vegetable oil and soybean meal. Vegetable oil values improved as the markets anticipate new demand from the developing United States biodiesel industry. North American processing results were also favorably impacted by lower plant operating costs resulting from improved capacity utilization. Asian joint venture results improved due to improved palm processing operating results partially offset by decreased soy crushing operating results. European processing results improved principally due to abundant oilseed supplies in Europe and strong demand for vegetable oil. The strong demand for vegetable oil is the result of strong biodiesel demand. These increases were partially offset by decreased biodiesel operating profits resulting from higher vegetable oil prices, increased market production capacity, and lower diesel fuel prices. South American processing results declined principally due to last years $27 million credit for Brazilian transactional taxes. Excluding the impact of last years credit for Brazilian transactional taxes, South American processing results improved principally due to increased fertilizer margins. The improvement in fertilizer margins was primarily due to higher average sales prices due to improved fertilizer demand combined with stable raw material costs. Operating profits for 2007 include a $5 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Operating profits for 2006 include a $14 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets and a $6 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47. Corn Processing operating profits increased $242 million to $1.1 billion principally due to higher average selling prices and lower energy costs, partially offset by lower ethanol sales volumes and higher net corn costs. Net corn costs have increased approximately 60% during 2007 due to significant demand increases for corn resulting primarily from the increase in corn derived ethanol industry capacity. Agricultural commodity market concerns regarding the expected decline in the ending 2006 corn crop carryover has also contributed to the increase in corn costs. Sweeteners and Starches operating profits increased $53 million due primarily to higher average sales prices and lower energy costs. Sales prices have increased principally due to good demand for sweetener and starch products. These increases were partially offset by increased net corn costs. Sweeteners and Starches operating profits for 2006 include a $5 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47. Bioproducts operating profits increased $189 million primarily due to higher ethanol average selling prices and lower energy costs, partially offset by increased net corn costs and lower ethanol sales volumes. Ethanol average sales prices increased principally due to strong demand from gasoline refiners and higher gasoline prices. Ethanol sales volumes decreased as 2006 sales volumes exceeded production due to the release of inventories built up in anticipation of refiners replacing MTBE with ethanol. Bioproducts operating results for 2007 include a $1 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Bioproducts operating results for 2006 include a $6 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets, a $2 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47, and $6 million of costs related to the closure of a citric acid plant. Agricultural Services operating profits increased $241 million to $516 million principally due to a $153 million gain from the sale of the Companys interest in Agricore United, a Canadian business which specialized in crop input, crop protection services, and grain marketing and merchandising. Excluding the Agricore United gain, Agricultural Services operating profits increased $88 million to $363 million principally due to improved global grain merchandising operating results and, to a lesser extent, improved transportation and North American origination operating results. Global grain merchandising results improved as regional production imbalances allowed the Company to capitalize on merchandising opportunities. North American river transportation operating results increased primarily due to increased barge freight rates created by strong demand for barge capacity. North American origination operating results improved due to good export demand for agricultural commodities and higher ocean freight rates. Agricultural Services operating profits for 2007 include a $12 million trade disruption insurance recovery related to Hurricane Katrina. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Other operating profits increased $99 million to $409 million. Other Food, Feed, and Industrial operating profits increased $55 million and include a $53 million gain on the sale of the Companys Arkady food ingredient business and a $15 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Other Food, Feed, and Industrial operating results for 2006 include a $51 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets, a $2 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47, a $9 million charge representing the Companys share of a charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets reported by an unconsolidated affiliate of the Company, a $17 million gain from the sale of long lived assets, and a $16 million charge related to exiting the European animal feed business. Excluding the effect of these 2007 and 2006 items, Other Food, Feed, and Industrial operating profits declined $44 million due primarily to cocoa processing operating results declining from prior year levels and costs related to the start up of the Companys natural plastics production operations. Cocoa processing operating results declined primarily due to increased industry production capacity which caused downward pressure on cocoa processing margins. These increases were partially offset by improved operating results of the Companys wheat flour processing and protein specialty operations. Other Financial operating profits increased $44 million principally due to increased valuations of the Companys private equity fund investments and higher operating results of the Companys futures commission merchant business, partially offset by lower operating results of the Companys captive insurance operations. The results of the Companys captive insurance operations for 2007 include a $12 million charge related to a Hurricane Katrina trade disruption insurance settlement. Corporate expense decreased $199 million to $7 million principally due to a $345 million increase in realized securities gains principally resulting from sales of the Companys equity securities of Tyson Foods, Inc. and Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc. and a $103 million reduction in unallocated interest expense due principally to higher levels of invested funds and higher interest rates. These decreases were partially offset by a $206 million charge, compared to a $12 million credit in the prior year, related to the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations and a $46 million charge related to the repurchase of $400 million of the Companys outstanding debentures. Income taxes increased due principally to higher pretax earnings and the absence of last years $36 million income tax credit related to the recognition of federal and state income tax credits and adjustments resulting from the reconciliation of filed tax returns to the previously estimated tax provision. The Companys effective tax rate during 2007 was 31.5% and, after excluding the effect of last years $36 million tax credit, was 31.2% for the prior year. The increase in the Companys effective tax rate is primarily due to changes in the geographic mix of pretax earnings. 2006 Compared to 2005 As an agricultural based commodity business, the Company is subject to a variety of market factors which affect the Companys operating results. Strong biodiesel demand in Europe continued to create increased vegetable oil demand and has positively impacted rapeseed crushing margins in Europe. Abundant oilseed supplies and strong protein meal demand have positively impacted oilseed crushing margins in North America. A good corn supply resulting in lower price levels for corn favorably impacted corn processing operations, while ethanol experienced good demand due to gasoline refiners replacing MTBE with ethanol. Solid demand for sweetener and starch products has also improved corn processing results. During the first half of 2006, hurricanes in the gulf coast region of the United States disrupted North American grain origination and agricultural commodity export operations, negatively impacting export sales volumes. The gulf coast hurricanes also disrupted river transportation, resulting in increased barge demand and barge freight rates. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Net earnings increased principally due to improved operating results of Oilseeds Processing and Corn Processing. In addition, net earnings also increased due to a $36 million reduction in income tax expense related to the recognition of federal and state income tax credits and adjustments resulting from the reconciliation of filed tax returns to the previously estimated tax provision. Earnings before income taxes for 2006 include charges of $31 million resulting from the Companys adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) Number 123(R), Share Based Payment, $15 million resulting from the Companys adoption of FIN 47, $71 million related to abandonment and write down of long lived assets, $9 million representing the Companys share of a charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets reported by an unconsolidated affiliate of the Company, and $22 million associated with the closure of a citric acid plant and exiting the European animal feed business. Earnings before income taxes for 2006 also include credits of $12 million from the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations, $17 million from the sale of long lived assets, $46 million related to Brazilian transactional tax credits, and $40 million related to realized securities gains. Earnings before income taxes for 2005 included credits of $114 million from the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations, $114 million of realized securities gain from the sale of Tate & Lyle PLC shares, and $45 million representing the Companys equity share of the gain reported by the Companys unconsolidated affiliate, Compagnie Industrielle et Financiere des Produits Amylaces SA (CIP), upon the sale of its interest in Tate & Lyle PLC (the CIP Gain). Earnings before income taxes for 2005 also include a $42 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Analysis of Statements of Earnings Net sales and other operating income increased 2% to $36.6 billion due primarily to higher average selling prices of agricultural commodities and increased sales volumes and selling prices of corn processing products, partially offset by decreased average selling prices of cocoa products and currency exchange rate decreases of $415 million. Net sales and other operating income by segment are as follows: 2006 2005 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing $ 11,867 $ 11,803 $ 64 Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 2,133 1,905 228 Bioproducts 2,727 2,459 268 Total Corn Processing 4,860 4,364 496 Agricultural Services 15,440 15,198 242 Other Food, Feed, and Industrial 4,354 4,506 (152 ) Financial 75 72 3 Total Other 4,429 4,578 (149 ) Total $ 36,596 $ 35,943 653 Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Oilseeds Processing sales increased $64 million to $11.9 billion principally due to higher average selling prices of South American oilseed exports and of vegetable oil. These increases were partially offset by lower average selling prices of protein meal. Corn Processing sales increased 11% to $4.9 billion due to sales increases in both Sweeteners and Starches and Bioproducts. Sweeteners and Starches sales increased due to higher average selling prices and sales volumes. Sales volumes and prices have increased primarily due to solid demand for sweetener and starch products. Bioproducts sales increased primarily due to increased sales volumes and average selling prices of ethanol, partially offset by lower average selling prices of lysine. The increases in ethanol sales volumes and sales prices were principally due to increased demand from gasoline refiners as refiners used ethanol to replace MTBE as a gasoline additive and to increased gasoline prices. Agricultural Services sales increased 2% to $15.4 billion primarily due to increased commodity prices in North America and, to a lesser extent, increased barge freight rates as the gulf coast hurricanes reduced barge capacities and created strong demand for North American river transportation. These increases were partially offset by decreased commodity sales volumes in North America. The decreased sales volumes were primarily due to disruptions in North American grain origination and export activities caused by the hurricanes in the gulf coast region. Other sales decreased 3% to $4.4 billion primarily due to decreased average selling prices of cocoa products and lower sales volumes of formula feed products. These decreases were partially offset by increased average selling prices of wheat flour products due to higher commodity prices. Cost of products sold increased $118 million to $33.6 billion due primarily to higher average prices of agricultural commodities and increased manufacturing costs, partially offset by currency exchange rate decreases of $389 million. Manufacturing costs increased $399 million primarily due to increased energy costs, an $86 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets, and increased employee related costs. Selling, general, and administrative expenses increased $112 million to $1.2 billion principally due to increased employee related costs, including a $31 million charge related to the adoption of SFAS 123(R), $20 million of severance costs associated with the closure of a citric acid plant, and increased provisions for doubtful accounts. Other income decreased $84 million due primarily to a $73 million decrease in realized securities gains, a $55 million decrease in equity in earnings of affiliates, and a $39 million increase in interest expense, partially offset by a $69 million increase in investment income. The decrease in realized securities gains is primarily due to the $114 million realized securities gain in 2005 from the sale of Tate & Lyle PLC shares, partially offset by $40 million of realized securities gains during 2006. The decrease in equity in earnings of affiliates is primarily due to the CIP Gain in 2005 and lower valuations of the Companys private equity fund investments in 2006, partially offset by improved earnings of the Companys Asian oilseed crushing ventures. Interest expense increased primarily due to higher average borrowing levels and interest rates. Investment income increased primarily due to the reversal of $19 million of Brazilian transactional taxes previously assessed on investment income upon positive resolution in the Brazilian Supreme Court, higher levels of invested funds, and higher interest rates. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Operating profit by segment is as follows: 2006 2005 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing $ 599 $ 345 $ 254 Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 431 271 160 Bioproducts 446 259 187 Total Corn Processing 877 530 347 Agricultural Services 275 262 13 Other Food, Feed, and Industrial 159 263 (104 ) Financial 151 151 Total Other 310 414 (104 ) Total Segment Operating Profit 2,061 1,551 510 Corporate (206 ) (35 ) (171 ) Earnings Before Income Taxes $ 1,855 $ 1,516 $ 339 Oilseeds Processing operating profits increased $254 million to $599 million primarily due to improved market conditions in all geographic regions. European processing results improved principally due to strong demand for biodiesel and abundant rapeseed supplies in Europe. This strong demand for biodiesel in Europe increased European vegetable oil demand and resulted in improved oilseeds processing results. Abundant rapeseed supplies in Europe resulted in lower rapeseed price levels. North American processing results improved principally due to abundant oilseed supplies in the United States and good demand for soybean meal. Vegetable oil values were solid as the markets anticipate new demand from the developing United States biodiesel industry. South American operating results increased primarily due to improved origination activities and a $27 million credit for Brazilian transactional taxes. Operating results in Asia increased due to improved soy crushing margins and improved palm operations. Operating profits include a $14 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets and a $6 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47. Operating profits for 2005 include a charge of $13 million for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Corn Processing operating profits increased $347 million to $877 million primarily due to higher average selling prices, increased sales volumes, and lower net corn costs, partially offset by increased energy costs. Sweeteners and Starches operating profits increased $160 million due primarily to decreased net corn costs and higher average sales prices and sales volumes. Sales volumes and prices have increased primarily due to good demand for sweetener and starch products. These increases were partially offset by increased energy costs. Sweeteners and Starches operating profits include a $5 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47. Bioproducts operating profits increased $187 million primarily due to higher ethanol sales volumes and average selling prices and decreased net corn costs, partially offset by increased energy costs and lower lysine average selling prices. The increases in ethanol sales volumes and average sales prices were principally due to increased demand from gasoline refiners as refiners used ethanol to replace MTBE as a gasoline additive and from increased gasoline prices. Bioproducts operating profits include a $6 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets, a $2 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47, and $6 million of costs related to the closure of a citric acid plant. Bioproducts operating profits for 2005 include a $16 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Agricultural Services operating profits increased $13 million to $275 million as improved results from transportation operations were partially offset by a decline in global grain merchandising and North American origination operating results. North American river transportation operating results increased primarily due to increased barge freight rates created by strong demand for barge capacity. This increase was partially offset by increased fuel costs. The gulf coast hurricanes negatively impacted North American origination and export activities during the first half of 2006. Other operating profits decreased $104 million to $310 million. Other Food, Feed, and Industrial operating results decreased $104 million due primarily to a $51 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets, a $2 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47, and a $9 million charge representing the Companys share of a charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets reported by an unconsolidated affiliate of the Company. In addition, cocoa processing, natural health and nutrition, and formula feed operating results declined from prior year levels. Cocoa processing operating results declined primarily due to increased industry capacity which caused downward pressure on cocoa finished product prices. Formula feed operating results declined due to costs associated with exiting the European animal feed business. Other Food, Feed, and Industrial operating profits include a $17 million gain from the sale of long lived assets. Other Food, Feed, and Industrial operating results for 2005 include a $13 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Other Financial operating profits are comparable to prior year levels as improvements in the Companys captive insurance operations and futures commission merchant business offset lower valuations of the Companys private equity fund investments. Corporate decreased $171 million due primarily to a $102 million decrease in income from the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations, the $114 million realized securities gain in 2005 from the sale of Tate & Lyle PLC shares, the CIP Gain in 2005, and a $22 million charge in 2006 upon the adoption of SFAS 123(R), partially offset by the aforementioned $19 million reversal of Brazilian transactional taxes and a $97 million reduction in unallocated interest expense. The reduction in unallocated interest expense is due principally to higher levels of invested funds and higher interest rates. Income taxes increased due principally to higher pretax earnings. This increase was partially offset by a $36 million reduction in income tax expense related to the recognition of federal and state income tax credits and adjustments resulting from the reconciliation of filed tax returns to the previously estimated tax provision. The Companys effective tax rate for 2006 was 29.3% as compared to 31.1% for 2005. Excluding the effect of the $36 million tax credit, the Companys effective tax rate was 31.2% for 2006 and, after excluding the effect of the CIP Gain, was 32.1% for 2005. No tax was provided on the CIP Gain in 2005, as CIP is a corporate joint venture of the Company and the proceeds from the sale are permanently reinvested. Excluding the effect of the $36 million tax credit in 2006 and the CIP Gain in 2005, the decrease in the Companys effective tax rate is primarily due to changes in the geographic mix of pretax earnings. Liquidity and Capital Resources The Companys objective is to have sufficient liquidity, balance sheet strength, and financial flexibility to fund the operating and capital requirements of a capital intensive agricultural based commodity business. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) At June 30, 2007, the Company continued to show substantial liquidity with working capital of $7.3 billion and a current ratio, defined as current assets divided by current liabilities, of 1.9 to 1. Included in working capital is $875 million of cash, cash equivalents, and short term marketable securities as well as $4.4 billion of readily marketable commodity inventories. Cash generated from operating activities totaled $303 million for the year compared to $1.4 billion last year. This decrease was primarily due to an increase in working capital requirements principally related to increased prices and quantities of agricultural commodity inventories and increased receivables, partially offset by increased cash earnings. Despite increased investment in property, plant, and equipment, cash used in investing activities decreased $714 million for the year to $355 million due primarily to increased sales of marketable securities and proceeds from sales of businesses including the sale of the Companys equity interests in Tyson Foods, Inc., Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc. and Agricore United. Cash used in financing activities was $398 million compared to cash generated by financing activities of $284 million last year. Net long term borrowings increased primarily as a result of the issuance of $1.2 billion of convertible senior notes in February 2007 (described in detail below), compared to $600 million of 30 year debentures issued in September 2005. This increase was partially offset by $283 million of increased payments on long term debt principally related to the Company retiring $400 million of debentures in 2007. Capital resources were strengthened as shown by the increase in the Companys net worth from $9.8 billion to $11.3 billion. The Companys ratio of long term debt to total capital (the sum of the Companys long term debt and shareholders equity) was 30% at June 30, 2007, and 29% at June 30, 2006. This ratio is a measure of the Companys long term liquidity and is an indicator of financial flexibility. The Company currently has $3.9 billion of commercial paper and commercial bank lines available to meet seasonal cash requirements of which $2.6 billion are committed and $1.3 billion are uncommitted. At June 30, 2007, the Company had $468 million of short term debt outstanding. Standard & Poors, Moodys, and Fitch rate the Companys commercial paper as A 1, P 1, and F1, respectively, and rate the Companys long term debt as A, A2, and A+, respectively. In addition to the cash flow generated from operations, the Company has access to equity and debt capital through numerous alternatives from public and private sources in domestic and international markets. In February 2007, the Company issued $1.2 billion principal amount of convertible senior notes due in 2014 (the Notes) in a private placement. The Notes were issued at par and bear interest at a rate of 0.875% per year, payable semiannually. The Notes are convertible based on an initial conversion rate of 22.8343 shares per $1,000 principal amount of Notes (which is equal to an initial conversion price of approximately $43.79 per share). The Notes may be converted, subject to adjustment, only under the following circumstances: 1) during any calendar quarter beginning after March 31, 2007, if the closing price of the Companys common stock for at least 20 trading days in the 30 consecutive trading days ending on the last trading day of the immediately preceding quarter is more than 140% of the applicable conversion price per share, which is $1,000 divided by the then applicable conversion rate, 2) during the five consecutive business day period immediately after any five consecutive trading day period (the note measurement period) in which the average of the trading price per $1,000 principal amount of Notes was equal to or less than 98% of the average of the product of the closing price of the Companys common stock and the conversion rate at each date during the note measurement period, 3) if the Company makes specified distributions to its common stockholders or specified corporate transactions occur, or 4) at any time on or after January 15, 2014, through the business day preceding the maturity date. Upon conversion, a holder would receive an amount in cash equal to the lesser of 1) $1,000 and 2) the conversion value, as defined. If the conversion value exceeds $1,000, the Company will deliver, at the Companys election, cash or common stock or a combination of cash and common stock for the conversion value in excess of $1,000. If the Notes are converted in connection with a change in control, as defined, the Company may be required to provide a make whole premium in the form of an increase in the conversion rate, subject to a stated maximum amount. In addition, in the event of a change in control, the holders may require the Company to purchase all or a portion of their Notes at a purchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Concurrent with the issuance of the Notes, the Company purchased call options in private transactions at a cost of $299 million. The purchased call options allow the Company to receive shares of its common stock and or cash from the counterparties equal to the amounts of common stock and or cash related to the excess of the current market price of the Companys common stock over the exercise price of the purchased call options. In addition, the Company sold warrants in private transactions to acquire, subject to customary anti dilution adjustments, 26.3 million shares of its common stock at an exercise price of $62.56 per share and received proceeds of $170 million. If the average price of the Companys common stock during a defined period ending on or about the respective settlement dates exceeds the exercise price of the warrants, the warrants will be settled, at the Companys option, in cash or shares of common stock. The purchased call options and warrants are intended to reduce the potential dilution upon future conversions of the Notes by effectively increasing the initial conversion price to $62.56 per share. Upon closing of the sale of the Notes, $370 million of the net proceeds from the Note issuance and the proceeds from the warrant transactions were used to repurchase 10.3 million shares of the Companys common stock under the Companys stock repurchase program. As of June 30, 2007, none of the conditions permitting conversion of the Notes had been satisfied. In addition, as of June 30, 2007, the market price of the Companys common stock was not greater than the exercise price of the purchased call options or warrants. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements In the normal course of business, the Company enters into contracts and commitments which obligate the Company to make payments in the future. The following table sets forth the Companys significant future obligations by time period. Purchases include commodity based contracts entered into in the normal course of business, which are further described in Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, energy related purchase contracts entered into in the normal course of business, and other purchase obligations related to the Companys normal business activities. Where applicable, information included in the Companys consolidated financial statements and notes is cross referenced in this table. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Payments Due by Period Contractual Note Less than 2 3 4 5 Over Obligations Reference Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years (In millions) Purchases Inventories $ 11,113 $ 10,312 $ 535 $ 159 $ 107 Energy 429 269 152 7 1 Other 217 67 94 43 13 Total purchases 11,759 10,648 781 209 121 Short term debt Note 7 468 468 Long term debt Note 7 4,897 65 92 425 4,315 Estimated interest payments 5,752 290 509 474 4,479 Operating leases Note 12 900 318 241 132 209 Estimated pension and other postretirement plan contributions Note 13 1,045 79 173 195 598 Total $ 24,821 $ 11,868 $ 1,796 $ 1,435 $ 9,722 At June 30, 2007, the Company estimates it will spend approximately $3.0 billion over the next four years to complete approved capital projects and acquisitions. The Company is a limited partner in various private equity funds which invest primarily in emerging markets. At June 30, 2007, the Companys carrying value of these limited partnership investments was $165 million. The Company has future capital commitments related to these partnerships of $138 million and expects the majority of these additional capital commitments, if called for, to be funded by cash flows generated by the partnerships. The Company also has outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds of $339 million at June 30, 2007. In addition, the Company has entered into agreements, primarily debt guarantee agreements related to equity method investees, which could obligate the Company to make future payments. The Companys liability under these agreements arises only if the primary entity fails to perform its contractual obligation. The Company has collateral for a portion of these contingent obligations. At June 30, 2007, these contingent obligations totaled approximately $98 million. Amounts outstanding for the primary entity under these contingent obligations were $51 million at June 30, 2007. Critical Accounting Policies The process of preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the carrying values of the Companys assets and liabilities as well as the recognition of revenues and expenses. These estimates and judgments are based on the Companys historical experience and managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Certain of the Companys accounting policies are considered critical, as these policies are important to the depiction of the Companys financial statements and require significant or complex judgment by management. Management has discussed with the Companys Audit Committee the development, selection, disclosure, and application of these critical accounting policies. Following are the accounting policies management considers critical to the Companys financial statements. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Inventories and Derivatives Certain of the Companys merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, forward fixed price purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and options contracts are valued at estimated market values. These merchandisable agricultural commodities are freely traded, have quoted market prices, and may be sold without significant additional processing. Management estimates market value based on exchange quoted prices, adjusted for differences in local markets. Changes in the market values of these inventories and contracts are recognized in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. If management used different methods or factors to estimate market value, amounts reported as inventories and cost of products sold could differ. Additionally, if market conditions change subsequent to year end, amounts reported in future periods as inventories and cost of products sold could differ. The Company, from time to time, uses derivative contracts to fix the purchase price of anticipated volumes of commodities to be purchased and processed in a future month, to fix the purchase price of the Companys anticipated natural gas requirements for certain production facilities, and to fix the sales price of anticipated volumes of ethanol. These derivative contracts are designated as cash flow hedges. The change in the market value of such derivative contracts has historically been, and is expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. If it is determined that the derivative instruments used are no longer effective at offsetting changes in the price of the hedged item, then the changes in the market value of these exchange traded futures contracts would be recorded in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. Employee Benefit Plans The Company provides substantially all domestic employees and employees at certain international subsidiaries with pension benefits. The Company also provides substantially all domestic salaried employees with postretirement health care and life insurance benefits. In order to measure the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans, management makes several estimates and assumptions, including interest rates used to discount certain liabilities, rates of return on assets set aside to fund these plans, rates of compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and anticipated future health care costs. These estimates and assumptions are based on the Companys historical experience combined with managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Management also uses third party specialists to assist in measuring the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans. If management used different estimates and assumptions regarding these plans, the funded status of the plans could vary significantly, and the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Income Taxes The Company frequently faces challenges from domestic and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company records reserves for probable exposures. Deferred tax assets represent items to be used as tax deductions or credits in future tax returns, and the related tax benefit has already been recognized in the Companys income statement. Realization of certain deferred tax assets reflects the Companys tax planning strategies. Valuation allowances related to these deferred tax assets have been established to the extent the realization of the tax benefit is not probable. Based on managements evaluation of the Companys tax position, it is believed the amounts related to these tax exposures are appropriately accrued. To the extent the Company were to favorably resolve matters for which accruals have been established or be required to pay amounts in excess of the aforementioned reserves, the Companys effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be impacted. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and affiliated corporate joint ventures accounted for on the equity method are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by unpredictable factors such as weather, plantings, government (domestic and foreign) farm programs and policies, changes in population growth, changes in standards of living, and production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned unpredictable factors, therefore, may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and profitability of the Companys fixed asset base in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its factories. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment and technology related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. Assets are abandoned after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of this fixed asset base, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Valuation of Marketable Securities and Investments in Affiliates The Company classifies the majority of its marketable securities as available for sale and carries these securities at fair value. Investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings. For publicly traded securities, the fair value of the Companys investments is readily available based on quoted market prices. For non publicly traded securities, managements assessment of fair value is based on valuation methodologies including discounted cash flows and estimates of sales proceeds. In the event of a decline in fair value of an investment below carrying value, management may be required to determine if the decline in fair value is other than temporary. In evaluating the nature of a decline in the fair value of an investment, management considers the market conditions, trends of earnings, discounted cash flows, trading volumes, and other key measures of the investment as well as the Companys ability and intent to hold the investment. When such a decline in value is deemed to be other than temporary, an impairment loss is recognized in the current period operating results to the extent of the decline. See Notes 3 and 5 to the Companys consolidated financial statements for information regarding the Companys marketable securities and investments in affiliates. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these marketable securities, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) The Company is a limited partner in various private equity funds which invest primarily in emerging markets. The Company accounts for these limited partnerships using the equity method of accounting. Therefore, the Company is recording in the consolidated statement of earnings its proportional share of the limited partnerships net income or loss. The limited partnerships value their investments at fair value. Thus, unrealized gains and losses related to the change in fair value of these investments are recorded in the limited partnerships statements of earnings. The valuation of these investments, as determined by the general partner, can be subjective, and the values may vary significantly. Some of the factors causing the subjectivity and volatility of these valuations include the illiquidity and minority positions of these investments, currency exchange rate fluctuations, less regulated securities exchanges, and the inherent business risks and limitations present in the emerging market countries. The Company records the results of these limited partnerships based on the information provided to the Company by the general partner. Due to the subjectivity and volatility in valuing these investments, the fair value of these investments, and thus the Companys results, could vary significantly over future periods. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in commodities futures prices, marketable equity security prices, market prices of limited partnerships investments, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and price of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to unpredictable factors such as weather, plantings, government (domestic and foreign) farm programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. To reduce price risk caused by market fluctuations, the Company generally follows a policy of using exchange traded futures and options contracts to minimize its net position of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories and forward cash purchase and sales contracts. The Company will also use exchange traded futures and options contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the volatility of the relationship between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contracts defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company from time to time enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) A sensitivity analysis has been prepared to estimate the Companys exposure to market risk of its daily net commodity position. The Companys daily net commodity position consists of inventories, related purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures contracts, including those contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements. The fair value of such daily net commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing each net position at quoted futures prices. Market risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in such prices. Actual results may differ. 2007 2006 Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest long position $ 703 $ 70 $ 510 $ 51 Highest short position 565 57 574 57 Average position long (short) 180 18 (203 ) (20 ) The change in fair value of the average position for 2007 compared to 2006 was principally a result of changes in the daily net commodity position and commodity prices. Marketable Equity Securities Marketable equity securities, which are recorded at fair value, have exposure to price risk. The fair value of marketable equity securities is based on quoted market prices. Risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted market prices. Actual results may differ. 2007 2006 (In millions) Fair value $ 227 $ 640 Market risk 23 64 The decrease in fair value for 2007 compared to 2006 resulted primarily from disposals of securities partially offset by increases in fair market value of certain securities. Limited Partnerships The Company is a limited partner in various private equity funds which invest primarily in emerging markets. The Company accounts for these limited partnerships using the equity method of accounting. Therefore, the Company is recording in the consolidated statement of earnings its proportional share of the limited partnerships net income or loss. The limited partnerships value their investments at fair value. Risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in market prices of the limited partnerships investments. Actual results may differ. 2007 2006 (In millions) Fair value of partnerships investments $ 188 $ 210 Market risk 19 21 The decrease in fair value for 2007 compared to 2006 resulted primarily from returns of capital. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) Currencies In order to reduce the risk of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, except for amounts permanently invested as described below, the Company follows a policy of entering into currency exchange forward contracts to mitigate its foreign currency risk related to transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currencies applicable to each of its various entities. The instruments used are readily marketable exchange traded futures contracts and forward contracts with banks. The changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $5.4 billion at June 30, 2007, and $4.5 billion at June 30, 2006. This increase is due to an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and appreciation of foreign currency exchange rates. The potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $543 million and $454 million for 2007 and 2006, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical .5 % decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2007 2006 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 4,927 $ 4,387 Excess of fair value over carrying value 110 257 Market risk 204 218 The increase in fair value of long term debt in 2007 resulted principally from the Companys issuance of $1.2 billion convertible senior notes partially offset by repayment of $400 million of debentures and other principal payments of long term debt. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Analysis of Statements of Earnings Net sales and other operating income increased 20% to $44.0 billion due primarily to increased selling prices of agricultural commodities, oilseed and corn processing products and, to a lesser extent, increased sales volumes of agricultural commodities and oilseed processing products. In addition, net sales and other operating income increased $916 million, or 3%, due to currency exchange rate fluctuations. Net sales and other operating income by segment are as follows: 2007 2006 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing $ 13,937 $ 11,867 $ 2,070 Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 2,378 2,133 245 Bioproducts 3,064 2,727 337 Total Corn Processing 5,442 4,860 582 Agricultural Services 19,706 15,440 4,266 Other Food, Feed, and Industrial 4,840 4,354 486 Financial 93 75 18 Total Other 4,933 4,429 504 Total $ 44,018 $ 36,596 $ 7,422 Oilseeds Processing sales increased 17% to $13.9 billion due principally to increased average selling prices of vegetable oil and increased sales volumes of vegetable oil and biodiesel. Vegetable oil selling prices and volumes improved as the markets anticipate new demand from the developing United States biodiesel industry. Biodiesel sales volumes increased due to additional production capacity. Corn Processing sales increased 12% to $5.4 billion principally due to increased sales of Bioproducts and, to a lesser extent, increased sales of Sweeteners and Starches. Bioproducts sales increased primarily due to higher average selling prices of ethanol, partially offset by lower sales volumes. Ethanol average selling prices increased principally due to higher gasoline prices. Ethanol sales volumes decreased as 2006 sales volumes exceeded production due to the release of inventories built up in anticipation of refiners replacing MTBE with ethanol. Sweeteners and Starches sales increased primarily due to higher average selling prices resulting from good demand for sweetener and starch products. Agricultural Services sales increased 28% to $19.7 billion principally due to increased agricultural commodity prices and increased sales volumes. The increase in commodity prices is primarily due to higher average market prices of corn in North America which have increased 60% from the prior year. Increased sales volumes of global grain merchandising activities also contributed to the increase in Agricultural Services sales. Other sales increased 11% to $4.9 billion primarily due to higher average selling prices of wheat flour products and, to a lesser extent, increased sales volumes and higher average selling prices of cocoa products. Cost of products sold increased 21% to $40.8 billion primarily due to higher average prices of agricultural commodities and increased sales volumes. Manufacturing costs for 2007 and 2006 include a $21 million and $62 million charge, respectively, for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. In addition, cost of products sold increased $874 million, or 3%, due to currency exchange rate fluctuations. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Selling, general, and administrative expenses of $1.2 billion were comparable to 2006 and include $25 million of currency exchange rate increases. Excluding the impact of currency exchange rate increases, selling, general and administrative expenses decreased $23 million principally due to 2006 selling, general and administrative expenses including $20 million of severance costs associated with the closure of a citric acid plant. During 2007 and 2006, the Company issued option grants and restricted stock awards to officers and key employees pursuant to the Companys Long term Management Incentive Program. Certain officers and key employees of the Company receiving option grants and restricted stock awards are eligible for retirement. Compensation expense related to option grants and restricted stock awards issued to these retirement eligible employees is recognized in earnings on the date of grant. Selling, general, and administrative expense for 2007 and 2006 includes compensation expense related to option grants and restricted stock awards granted to retirement eligible employees of $30 million and $31 million, respectively. Other income increased $1.0 billion primarily due to the $440 million Wilmar Gain, a $357 million gain on the sale of the Companys equity securities of Tyson Foods, Inc. and Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc., a $153 million gain on the sale of the Companys interest in Agricore United, and a $53 million gain on the sale of the Companys Arkady food ingredient business. Other income also includes a $46 million charge related to the repurchase of $400 million of the Companys outstanding debentures. Excluding these items, other income increased $73 million primarily due to a $120 million increase in equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates, and a $53 million increase in investment income, partially offset by a $69 million increase in interest expense and a $27 million reduction in gains on sales of long lived assets. The increase in equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates is primarily due to higher valuations of the Companys private equity fund investments and improved operating results of the Companys Asian oilseed crushing ventures. Interest expense and investment income increased primarily due to increased average borrowing and investment levels. Operating profit by segment is as follows: 2007 2006 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing $ 1,117 $ 599 $ 518 Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 485 432 53 Bioproducts 634 445 189 Total Corn Processing 1,119 877 242 Agricultural Services 516 275 241 Other Food, Feed, and Industrial 214 159 55 Financial 195 151 44 Total Other 409 310 99 Total Segment Operating Profit 3,161 2,061 1,100 Corporate (7 ) (206 ) 199 Earnings Before Income Taxes $ 3,154 $ 1,855 $ 1,299 Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Oilseeds Processing operating profits increased $518 million to $1.1 billion due to the $440 million Wilmar Gain and improved market conditions in all geographic regions. North American processing results improved principally due to abundant oilseed supplies in the United States and good demand for vegetable oil and soybean meal. Vegetable oil values improved as the markets anticipate new demand from the developing United States biodiesel industry. North American processing results were also favorably impacted by lower plant operating costs resulting from improved capacity utilization. Asian joint venture results improved due to improved palm processing operating results partially offset by decreased soy crushing operating results. European processing results improved principally due to abundant oilseed supplies in Europe and strong demand for vegetable oil. The strong demand for vegetable oil is the result of strong biodiesel demand. These increases were partially offset by decreased biodiesel operating profits resulting from higher vegetable oil prices, increased market production capacity, and lower diesel fuel prices. South American processing results declined principally due to last years $27 million credit for Brazilian transactional taxes. Excluding the impact of last years credit for Brazilian transactional taxes, South American processing results improved principally due to increased fertilizer margins. The improvement in fertilizer margins was primarily due to higher average sales prices due to improved fertilizer demand combined with stable raw material costs. Operating profits for 2007 include a $5 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Operating profits for 2006 include a $14 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets and a $6 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47. Corn Processing operating profits increased $242 million to $1.1 billion principally due to higher average selling prices and lower energy costs, partially offset by lower ethanol sales volumes and higher net corn costs. Net corn costs have increased approximately 60% during 2007 due to significant demand increases for corn resulting primarily from the increase in corn derived ethanol industry capacity. Agricultural commodity market concerns regarding the expected decline in the ending 2006 corn crop carryover has also contributed to the increase in corn costs. Sweeteners and Starches operating profits increased $53 million due primarily to higher average sales prices and lower energy costs. Sales prices have increased principally due to good demand for sweetener and starch products. These increases were partially offset by increased net corn costs. Sweeteners and Starches operating profits for 2006 include a $5 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47. Bioproducts operating profits increased $189 million primarily due to higher ethanol average selling prices and lower energy costs, partially offset by increased net corn costs and lower ethanol sales volumes. Ethanol average sales prices increased principally due to strong demand from gasoline refiners and higher gasoline prices. Ethanol sales volumes decreased as 2006 sales volumes exceeded production due to the release of inventories built up in anticipation of refiners replacing MTBE with ethanol. Bioproducts operating results for 2007 include a $1 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Bioproducts operating results for 2006 include a $6 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets, a $2 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47, and $6 million of costs related to the closure of a citric acid plant. Agricultural Services operating profits increased $241 million to $516 million principally due to a $153 million gain from the sale of the Companys interest in Agricore United, a Canadian business which specialized in crop input, crop protection services, and grain marketing and merchandising. Excluding the Agricore United gain, Agricultural Services operating profits increased $88 million to $363 million principally due to improved global grain merchandising operating results and, to a lesser extent, improved transportation and North American origination operating results. Global grain merchandising results improved as regional production imbalances allowed the Company to capitalize on merchandising opportunities. North American river transportation operating results increased primarily due to increased barge freight rates created by strong demand for barge capacity. North American origination operating results improved due to good export demand for agricultural commodities and higher ocean freight rates. Agricultural Services operating profits for 2007 include a $12 million trade disruption insurance recovery related to Hurricane Katrina. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Other operating profits increased $99 million to $409 million. Other Food, Feed, and Industrial operating profits increased $55 million and include a $53 million gain on the sale of the Companys Arkady food ingredient business and a $15 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Other Food, Feed, and Industrial operating results for 2006 include a $51 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets, a $2 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47, a $9 million charge representing the Companys share of a charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets reported by an unconsolidated affiliate of the Company, a $17 million gain from the sale of long lived assets, and a $16 million charge related to exiting the European animal feed business. Excluding the effect of these 2007 and 2006 items, Other Food, Feed, and Industrial operating profits declined $44 million due primarily to cocoa processing operating results declining from prior year levels and costs related to the start up of the Companys natural plastics production operations. Cocoa processing operating results declined primarily due to increased industry production capacity which caused downward pressure on cocoa processing margins. These increases were partially offset by improved operating results of the Companys wheat flour processing and protein specialty operations. Other Financial operating profits increased $44 million principally due to increased valuations of the Companys private equity fund investments and higher operating results of the Companys futures commission merchant business, partially offset by lower operating results of the Companys captive insurance operations. The results of the Companys captive insurance operations for 2007 include a $12 million charge related to a Hurricane Katrina trade disruption insurance settlement. Corporate expense decreased $199 million to $7 million principally due to a $345 million increase in realized securities gains principally resulting from sales of the Companys equity securities of Tyson Foods, Inc. and Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc. and a $103 million reduction in unallocated interest expense due principally to higher levels of invested funds and higher interest rates. These decreases were partially offset by a $206 million charge, compared to a $12 million credit in the prior year, related to the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations and a $46 million charge related to the repurchase of $400 million of the Companys outstanding debentures. Income taxes increased due principally to higher pretax earnings and the absence of last years $36 million income tax credit related to the recognition of federal and state income tax credits and adjustments resulting from the reconciliation of filed tax returns to the previously estimated tax provision. The Companys effective tax rate during 2007 was 31.5% and, after excluding the effect of last years $36 million tax credit, was 31.2% for the prior year. The increase in the Companys effective tax rate is primarily due to changes in the geographic mix of pretax earnings. 2006 Compared to 2005 As an agricultural based commodity business, the Company is subject to a variety of market factors which affect the Companys operating results. Strong biodiesel demand in Europe continued to create increased vegetable oil demand and has positively impacted rapeseed crushing margins in Europe. Abundant oilseed supplies and strong protein meal demand have positively impacted oilseed crushing margins in North America. A good corn supply resulting in lower price levels for corn favorably impacted corn processing operations, while ethanol experienced good demand due to gasoline refiners replacing MTBE with ethanol. Solid demand for sweetener and starch products has also improved corn processing results. During the first half of 2006, hurricanes in the gulf coast region of the United States disrupted North American grain origination and agricultural commodity export operations, negatively impacting export sales volumes. The gulf coast hurricanes also disrupted river transportation, resulting in increased barge demand and barge freight rates. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Net earnings increased principally due to improved operating results of Oilseeds Processing and Corn Processing. In addition, net earnings also increased due to a $36 million reduction in income tax expense related to the recognition of federal and state income tax credits and adjustments resulting from the reconciliation of filed tax returns to the previously estimated tax provision. Earnings before income taxes for 2006 include charges of $31 million resulting from the Companys adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) Number 123(R), Share Based Payment, $15 million resulting from the Companys adoption of FIN 47, $71 million related to abandonment and write down of long lived assets, $9 million representing the Companys share of a charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets reported by an unconsolidated affiliate of the Company, and $22 million associated with the closure of a citric acid plant and exiting the European animal feed business. Earnings before income taxes for 2006 also include credits of $12 million from the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations, $17 million from the sale of long lived assets, $46 million related to Brazilian transactional tax credits, and $40 million related to realized securities gains. Earnings before income taxes for 2005 included credits of $114 million from the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations, $114 million of realized securities gain from the sale of Tate & Lyle PLC shares, and $45 million representing the Companys equity share of the gain reported by the Companys unconsolidated affiliate, Compagnie Industrielle et Financiere des Produits Amylaces SA (CIP), upon the sale of its interest in Tate & Lyle PLC (the CIP Gain). Earnings before income taxes for 2005 also include a $42 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Analysis of Statements of Earnings Net sales and other operating income increased 2% to $36.6 billion due primarily to higher average selling prices of agricultural commodities and increased sales volumes and selling prices of corn processing products, partially offset by decreased average selling prices of cocoa products and currency exchange rate decreases of $415 million. Net sales and other operating income by segment are as follows: 2006 2005 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing $ 11,867 $ 11,803 $ 64 Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 2,133 1,905 228 Bioproducts 2,727 2,459 268 Total Corn Processing 4,860 4,364 496 Agricultural Services 15,440 15,198 242 Other Food, Feed, and Industrial 4,354 4,506 (152 ) Financial 75 72 3 Total Other 4,429 4,578 (149 ) Total $ 36,596 $ 35,943 653 Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Oilseeds Processing sales increased $64 million to $11.9 billion principally due to higher average selling prices of South American oilseed exports and of vegetable oil. These increases were partially offset by lower average selling prices of protein meal. Corn Processing sales increased 11% to $4.9 billion due to sales increases in both Sweeteners and Starches and Bioproducts. Sweeteners and Starches sales increased due to higher average selling prices and sales volumes. Sales volumes and prices have increased primarily due to solid demand for sweetener and starch products. Bioproducts sales increased primarily due to increased sales volumes and average selling prices of ethanol, partially offset by lower average selling prices of lysine. The increases in ethanol sales volumes and sales prices were principally due to increased demand from gasoline refiners as refiners used ethanol to replace MTBE as a gasoline additive and to increased gasoline prices. Agricultural Services sales increased 2% to $15.4 billion primarily due to increased commodity prices in North America and, to a lesser extent, increased barge freight rates as the gulf coast hurricanes reduced barge capacities and created strong demand for North American river transportation. These increases were partially offset by decreased commodity sales volumes in North America. The decreased sales volumes were primarily due to disruptions in North American grain origination and export activities caused by the hurricanes in the gulf coast region. Other sales decreased 3% to $4.4 billion primarily due to decreased average selling prices of cocoa products and lower sales volumes of formula feed products. These decreases were partially offset by increased average selling prices of wheat flour products due to higher commodity prices. Cost of products sold increased $118 million to $33.6 billion due primarily to higher average prices of agricultural commodities and increased manufacturing costs, partially offset by currency exchange rate decreases of $389 million. Manufacturing costs increased $399 million primarily due to increased energy costs, an $86 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets, and increased employee related costs. Selling, general, and administrative expenses increased $112 million to $1.2 billion principally due to increased employee related costs, including a $31 million charge related to the adoption of SFAS 123(R), $20 million of severance costs associated with the closure of a citric acid plant, and increased provisions for doubtful accounts. Other income decreased $84 million due primarily to a $73 million decrease in realized securities gains, a $55 million decrease in equity in earnings of affiliates, and a $39 million increase in interest expense, partially offset by a $69 million increase in investment income. The decrease in realized securities gains is primarily due to the $114 million realized securities gain in 2005 from the sale of Tate & Lyle PLC shares, partially offset by $40 million of realized securities gains during 2006. The decrease in equity in earnings of affiliates is primarily due to the CIP Gain in 2005 and lower valuations of the Companys private equity fund investments in 2006, partially offset by improved earnings of the Companys Asian oilseed crushing ventures. Interest expense increased primarily due to higher average borrowing levels and interest rates. Investment income increased primarily due to the reversal of $19 million of Brazilian transactional taxes previously assessed on investment income upon positive resolution in the Brazilian Supreme Court, higher levels of invested funds, and higher interest rates. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Operating profit by segment is as follows: 2006 2005 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing $ 599 $ 345 $ 254 Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 431 271 160 Bioproducts 446 259 187 Total Corn Processing 877 530 347 Agricultural Services 275 262 13 Other Food, Feed, and Industrial 159 263 (104 ) Financial 151 151 Total Other 310 414 (104 ) Total Segment Operating Profit 2,061 1,551 510 Corporate (206 ) (35 ) (171 ) Earnings Before Income Taxes $ 1,855 $ 1,516 $ 339 Oilseeds Processing operating profits increased $254 million to $599 million primarily due to improved market conditions in all geographic regions. European processing results improved principally due to strong demand for biodiesel and abundant rapeseed supplies in Europe. This strong demand for biodiesel in Europe increased European vegetable oil demand and resulted in improved oilseeds processing results. Abundant rapeseed supplies in Europe resulted in lower rapeseed price levels. North American processing results improved principally due to abundant oilseed supplies in the United States and good demand for soybean meal. Vegetable oil values were solid as the markets anticipate new demand from the developing United States biodiesel industry. South American operating results increased primarily due to improved origination activities and a $27 million credit for Brazilian transactional taxes. Operating results in Asia increased due to improved soy crushing margins and improved palm operations. Operating profits include a $14 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets and a $6 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47. Operating profits for 2005 include a charge of $13 million for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Corn Processing operating profits increased $347 million to $877 million primarily due to higher average selling prices, increased sales volumes, and lower net corn costs, partially offset by increased energy costs. Sweeteners and Starches operating profits increased $160 million due primarily to decreased net corn costs and higher average sales prices and sales volumes. Sales volumes and prices have increased primarily due to good demand for sweetener and starch products. These increases were partially offset by increased energy costs. Sweeteners and Starches operating profits include a $5 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47. Bioproducts operating profits increased $187 million primarily due to higher ethanol sales volumes and average selling prices and decreased net corn costs, partially offset by increased energy costs and lower lysine average selling prices. The increases in ethanol sales volumes and average sales prices were principally due to increased demand from gasoline refiners as refiners used ethanol to replace MTBE as a gasoline additive and from increased gasoline prices. Bioproducts operating profits include a $6 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets, a $2 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47, and $6 million of costs related to the closure of a citric acid plant. Bioproducts operating profits for 2005 include a $16 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Agricultural Services operating profits increased $13 million to $275 million as improved results from transportation operations were partially offset by a decline in global grain merchandising and North American origination operating results. North American river transportation operating results increased primarily due to increased barge freight rates created by strong demand for barge capacity. This increase was partially offset by increased fuel costs. The gulf coast hurricanes negatively impacted North American origination and export activities during the first half of 2006. Other operating profits decreased $104 million to $310 million. Other Food, Feed, and Industrial operating results decreased $104 million due primarily to a $51 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets, a $2 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47, and a $9 million charge representing the Companys share of a charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets reported by an unconsolidated affiliate of the Company. In addition, cocoa processing, natural health and nutrition, and formula feed operating results declined from prior year levels. Cocoa processing operating results declined primarily due to increased industry capacity which caused downward pressure on cocoa finished product prices. Formula feed operating results declined due to costs associated with exiting the European animal feed business. Other Food, Feed, and Industrial operating profits include a $17 million gain from the sale of long lived assets. Other Food, Feed, and Industrial operating results for 2005 include a $13 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Other Financial operating profits are comparable to prior year levels as improvements in the Companys captive insurance operations and futures commission merchant business offset lower valuations of the Companys private equity fund investments. Corporate decreased $171 million due primarily to a $102 million decrease in income from the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations, the $114 million realized securities gain in 2005 from the sale of Tate & Lyle PLC shares, the CIP Gain in 2005, and a $22 million charge in 2006 upon the adoption of SFAS 123(R), partially offset by the aforementioned $19 million reversal of Brazilian transactional taxes and a $97 million reduction in unallocated interest expense. The reduction in unallocated interest expense is due principally to higher levels of invested funds and higher interest rates. Income taxes increased due principally to higher pretax earnings. This increase was partially offset by a $36 million reduction in income tax expense related to the recognition of federal and state income tax credits and adjustments resulting from the reconciliation of filed tax returns to the previously estimated tax provision. The Companys effective tax rate for 2006 was 29.3% as compared to 31.1% for 2005. Excluding the effect of the $36 million tax credit, the Companys effective tax rate was 31.2% for 2006 and, after excluding the effect of the CIP Gain, was 32.1% for 2005. No tax was provided on the CIP Gain in 2005, as CIP is a corporate joint venture of the Company and the proceeds from the sale are permanently reinvested. Excluding the effect of the $36 million tax credit in 2006 and the CIP Gain in 2005, the decrease in the Companys effective tax rate is primarily due to changes in the geographic mix of pretax earnings. Liquidity and Capital Resources The Companys objective is to have sufficient liquidity, balance sheet strength, and financial flexibility to fund the operating and capital requirements of a capital intensive agricultural based commodity business. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) At June 30, 2007, the Company continued to show substantial liquidity with working capital of $7.3 billion and a current ratio, defined as current assets divided by current liabilities, of 1.9 to 1. Included in working capital is $875 million of cash, cash equivalents, and short term marketable securities as well as $4.4 billion of readily marketable commodity inventories. Cash generated from operating activities totaled $303 million for the year compared to $1.4 billion last year. This decrease was primarily due to an increase in working capital requirements principally related to increased prices and quantities of agricultural commodity inventories and increased receivables, partially offset by increased cash earnings. Despite increased investment in property, plant, and equipment, cash used in investing activities decreased $714 million for the year to $355 million due primarily to increased sales of marketable securities and proceeds from sales of businesses including the sale of the Companys equity interests in Tyson Foods, Inc., Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc. and Agricore United. Cash used in financing activities was $398 million compared to cash generated by financing activities of $284 million last year. Net long term borrowings increased primarily as a result of the issuance of $1.2 billion of convertible senior notes in February 2007 (described in detail below), compared to $600 million of 30 year debentures issued in September 2005. This increase was partially offset by $283 million of increased payments on long term debt principally related to the Company retiring $400 million of debentures in 2007. Capital resources were strengthened as shown by the increase in the Companys net worth from $9.8 billion to $11.3 billion. The Companys ratio of long term debt to total capital (the sum of the Companys long term debt and shareholders equity) was 30% at June 30, 2007, and 29% at June 30, 2006. This ratio is a measure of the Companys long term liquidity and is an indicator of financial flexibility. The Company currently has $3.9 billion of commercial paper and commercial bank lines available to meet seasonal cash requirements of which $2.6 billion are committed and $1.3 billion are uncommitted. At June 30, 2007, the Company had $468 million of short term debt outstanding. Standard & Poors, Moodys, and Fitch rate the Companys commercial paper as A 1, P 1, and F1, respectively, and rate the Companys long term debt as A, A2, and A+, respectively. In addition to the cash flow generated from operations, the Company has access to equity and debt capital through numerous alternatives from public and private sources in domestic and international markets. In February 2007, the Company issued $1.2 billion principal amount of convertible senior notes due in 2014 (the Notes) in a private placement. The Notes were issued at par and bear interest at a rate of 0.875% per year, payable semiannually. The Notes are convertible based on an initial conversion rate of 22.8343 shares per $1,000 principal amount of Notes (which is equal to an initial conversion price of approximately $43.79 per share). The Notes may be converted, subject to adjustment, only under the following circumstances: 1) during any calendar quarter beginning after March 31, 2007, if the closing price of the Companys common stock for at least 20 trading days in the 30 consecutive trading days ending on the last trading day of the immediately preceding quarter is more than 140% of the applicable conversion price per share, which is $1,000 divided by the then applicable conversion rate, 2) during the five consecutive business day period immediately after any five consecutive trading day period (the note measurement period) in which the average of the trading price per $1,000 principal amount of Notes was equal to or less than 98% of the average of the product of the closing price of the Companys common stock and the conversion rate at each date during the note measurement period, 3) if the Company makes specified distributions to its common stockholders or specified corporate transactions occur, or 4) at any time on or after January 15, 2014, through the business day preceding the maturity date. Upon conversion, a holder would receive an amount in cash equal to the lesser of 1) $1,000 and 2) the conversion value, as defined. If the conversion value exceeds $1,000, the Company will deliver, at the Companys election, cash or common stock or a combination of cash and common stock for the conversion value in excess of $1,000. If the Notes are converted in connection with a change in control, as defined, the Company may be required to provide a make whole premium in the form of an increase in the conversion rate, subject to a stated maximum amount. In addition, in the event of a change in control, the holders may require the Company to purchase all or a portion of their Notes at a purchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Concurrent with the issuance of the Notes, the Company purchased call options in private transactions at a cost of $299 million. The purchased call options allow the Company to receive shares of its common stock and or cash from the counterparties equal to the amounts of common stock and or cash related to the excess of the current market price of the Companys common stock over the exercise price of the purchased call options. In addition, the Company sold warrants in private transactions to acquire, subject to customary anti dilution adjustments, 26.3 million shares of its common stock at an exercise price of $62.56 per share and received proceeds of $170 million. If the average price of the Companys common stock during a defined period ending on or about the respective settlement dates exceeds the exercise price of the warrants, the warrants will be settled, at the Companys option, in cash or shares of common stock. The purchased call options and warrants are intended to reduce the potential dilution upon future conversions of the Notes by effectively increasing the initial conversion price to $62.56 per share. Upon closing of the sale of the Notes, $370 million of the net proceeds from the Note issuance and the proceeds from the warrant transactions were used to repurchase 10.3 million shares of the Companys common stock under the Companys stock repurchase program. As of June 30, 2007, none of the conditions permitting conversion of the Notes had been satisfied. In addition, as of June 30, 2007, the market price of the Companys common stock was not greater than the exercise price of the purchased call options or warrants. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements In the normal course of business, the Company enters into contracts and commitments which obligate the Company to make payments in the future. The following table sets forth the Companys significant future obligations by time period. Purchases include commodity based contracts entered into in the normal course of business, which are further described in Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, energy related purchase contracts entered into in the normal course of business, and other purchase obligations related to the Companys normal business activities. Where applicable, information included in the Companys consolidated financial statements and notes is cross referenced in this table. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Payments Due by Period Contractual Note Less than 2 3 4 5 Over Obligations Reference Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years (In millions) Purchases Inventories $ 11,113 $ 10,312 $ 535 $ 159 $ 107 Energy 429 269 152 7 1 Other 217 67 94 43 13 Total purchases 11,759 10,648 781 209 121 Short term debt Note 7 468 468 Long term debt Note 7 4,897 65 92 425 4,315 Estimated interest payments 5,752 290 509 474 4,479 Operating leases Note 12 900 318 241 132 209 Estimated pension and other postretirement plan contributions Note 13 1,045 79 173 195 598 Total $ 24,821 $ 11,868 $ 1,796 $ 1,435 $ 9,722 At June 30, 2007, the Company estimates it will spend approximately $3.0 billion over the next four years to complete approved capital projects and acquisitions. The Company is a limited partner in various private equity funds which invest primarily in emerging markets. At June 30, 2007, the Companys carrying value of these limited partnership investments was $165 million. The Company has future capital commitments related to these partnerships of $138 million and expects the majority of these additional capital commitments, if called for, to be funded by cash flows generated by the partnerships. The Company also has outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds of $339 million at June 30, 2007. In addition, the Company has entered into agreements, primarily debt guarantee agreements related to equity method investees, which could obligate the Company to make future payments. The Companys liability under these agreements arises only if the primary entity fails to perform its contractual obligation. The Company has collateral for a portion of these contingent obligations. At June 30, 2007, these contingent obligations totaled approximately $98 million. Amounts outstanding for the primary entity under these contingent obligations were $51 million at June 30, 2007. Critical Accounting Policies The process of preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the carrying values of the Companys assets and liabilities as well as the recognition of revenues and expenses. These estimates and judgments are based on the Companys historical experience and managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Certain of the Companys accounting policies are considered critical, as these policies are important to the depiction of the Companys financial statements and require significant or complex judgment by management. Management has discussed with the Companys Audit Committee the development, selection, disclosure, and application of these critical accounting policies. Following are the accounting policies management considers critical to the Companys financial statements. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Inventories and Derivatives Certain of the Companys merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, forward fixed price purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and options contracts are valued at estimated market values. These merchandisable agricultural commodities are freely traded, have quoted market prices, and may be sold without significant additional processing. Management estimates market value based on exchange quoted prices, adjusted for differences in local markets. Changes in the market values of these inventories and contracts are recognized in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. If management used different methods or factors to estimate market value, amounts reported as inventories and cost of products sold could differ. Additionally, if market conditions change subsequent to year end, amounts reported in future periods as inventories and cost of products sold could differ. The Company, from time to time, uses derivative contracts to fix the purchase price of anticipated volumes of commodities to be purchased and processed in a future month, to fix the purchase price of the Companys anticipated natural gas requirements for certain production facilities, and to fix the sales price of anticipated volumes of ethanol. These derivative contracts are designated as cash flow hedges. The change in the market value of such derivative contracts has historically been, and is expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. If it is determined that the derivative instruments used are no longer effective at offsetting changes in the price of the hedged item, then the changes in the market value of these exchange traded futures contracts would be recorded in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. Employee Benefit Plans The Company provides substantially all domestic employees and employees at certain international subsidiaries with pension benefits. The Company also provides substantially all domestic salaried employees with postretirement health care and life insurance benefits. In order to measure the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans, management makes several estimates and assumptions, including interest rates used to discount certain liabilities, rates of return on assets set aside to fund these plans, rates of compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and anticipated future health care costs. These estimates and assumptions are based on the Companys historical experience combined with managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Management also uses third party specialists to assist in measuring the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans. If management used different estimates and assumptions regarding these plans, the funded status of the plans could vary significantly, and the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Income Taxes The Company frequently faces challenges from domestic and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company records reserves for probable exposures. Deferred tax assets represent items to be used as tax deductions or credits in future tax returns, and the related tax benefit has already been recognized in the Companys income statement. Realization of certain deferred tax assets reflects the Companys tax planning strategies. Valuation allowances related to these deferred tax assets have been established to the extent the realization of the tax benefit is not probable. Based on managements evaluation of the Companys tax position, it is believed the amounts related to these tax exposures are appropriately accrued. To the extent the Company were to favorably resolve matters for which accruals have been established or be required to pay amounts in excess of the aforementioned reserves, the Companys effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be impacted. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and affiliated corporate joint ventures accounted for on the equity method are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by unpredictable factors such as weather, plantings, government (domestic and foreign) farm programs and policies, changes in population growth, changes in standards of living, and production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned unpredictable factors, therefore, may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and profitability of the Companys fixed asset base in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its factories. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment and technology related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. Assets are abandoned after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of this fixed asset base, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Valuation of Marketable Securities and Investments in Affiliates The Company classifies the majority of its marketable securities as available for sale and carries these securities at fair value. Investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings. For publicly traded securities, the fair value of the Companys investments is readily available based on quoted market prices. For non publicly traded securities, managements assessment of fair value is based on valuation methodologies including discounted cash flows and estimates of sales proceeds. In the event of a decline in fair value of an investment below carrying value, management may be required to determine if the decline in fair value is other than temporary. In evaluating the nature of a decline in the fair value of an investment, management considers the market conditions, trends of earnings, discounted cash flows, trading volumes, and other key measures of the investment as well as the Companys ability and intent to hold the investment. When such a decline in value is deemed to be other than temporary, an impairment loss is recognized in the current period operating results to the extent of the decline. See Notes 3 and 5 to the Companys consolidated financial statements for information regarding the Companys marketable securities and investments in affiliates. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these marketable securities, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) The Company is a limited partner in various private equity funds which invest primarily in emerging markets. The Company accounts for these limited partnerships using the equity method of accounting. Therefore, the Company is recording in the consolidated statement of earnings its proportional share of the limited partnerships net income or loss. The limited partnerships value their investments at fair value. Thus, unrealized gains and losses related to the change in fair value of these investments are recorded in the limited partnerships statements of earnings. The valuation of these investments, as determined by the general partner, can be subjective, and the values may vary significantly. Some of the factors causing the subjectivity and volatility of these valuations include the illiquidity and minority positions of these investments, currency exchange rate fluctuations, less regulated securities exchanges, and the inherent business risks and limitations present in the emerging market countries. The Company records the results of these limited partnerships based on the information provided to the Company by the general partner. Due to the subjectivity and volatility in valuing these investments, the fair value of these investments, and thus the Companys results, could vary significantly over future periods. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in commodities futures prices, marketable equity security prices, market prices of limited partnerships investments, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and price of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to unpredictable factors such as weather, plantings, government (domestic and foreign) farm programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. To reduce price risk caused by market fluctuations, the Company generally follows a policy of using exchange traded futures and options contracts to minimize its net position of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories and forward cash purchase and sales contracts. The Company will also use exchange traded futures and options contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the volatility of the relationship between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contracts defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company from time to time enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) A sensitivity analysis has been prepared to estimate the Companys exposure to market risk of its daily net commodity position. The Companys daily net commodity position consists of inventories, related purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures contracts, including those contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements. The fair value of such daily net commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing each net position at quoted futures prices. Market risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in such prices. Actual results may differ. 2007 2006 Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest long position $ 703 $ 70 $ 510 $ 51 Highest short position 565 57 574 57 Average position long (short) 180 18 (203 ) (20 ) The change in fair value of the average position for 2007 compared to 2006 was principally a result of changes in the daily net commodity position and commodity prices. Marketable Equity Securities Marketable equity securities, which are recorded at fair value, have exposure to price risk. The fair value of marketable equity securities is based on quoted market prices. Risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted market prices. Actual results may differ. 2007 2006 (In millions) Fair value $ 227 $ 640 Market risk 23 64 The decrease in fair value for 2007 compared to 2006 resulted primarily from disposals of securities partially offset by increases in fair market value of certain securities. Limited Partnerships The Company is a limited partner in various private equity funds which invest primarily in emerging markets. The Company accounts for these limited partnerships using the equity method of accounting. Therefore, the Company is recording in the consolidated statement of earnings its proportional share of the limited partnerships net income or loss. The limited partnerships value their investments at fair value. Risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in market prices of the limited partnerships investments. Actual results may differ. 2007 2006 (In millions) Fair value of partnerships investments $ 188 $ 210 Market risk 19 21 The decrease in fair value for 2007 compared to 2006 resulted primarily from returns of capital. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) Currencies In order to reduce the risk of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, except for amounts permanently invested as described below, the Company follows a policy of entering into currency exchange forward contracts to mitigate its foreign currency risk related to transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currencies applicable to each of its various entities. The instruments used are readily marketable exchange traded futures contracts and forward contracts with banks. The changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $5.4 billion at June 30, 2007, and $4.5 billion at June 30, 2006. This increase is due to an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and appreciation of foreign currency exchange rates. The potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $543 million and $454 million for 2007 and 2006, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical .5 % decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2007 2006 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 4,927 $ 4,387 Excess of fair value over carrying value 110 257 Market risk 204 218 The increase in fair value of long term debt in 2007 resulted principally from the Companys issuance of $1.2 billion convertible senior notes partially offset by repayment of $400 million of debentures and other principal payments of long term debt. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Selling, general, and administrative expenses of $1.2 billion were comparable to 2006 and include $25 million of currency exchange rate increases. Excluding the impact of currency exchange rate increases, selling, general and administrative expenses decreased $23 million principally due to 2006 selling, general and administrative expenses including $20 million of severance costs associated with the closure of a citric acid plant. During 2007 and 2006, the Company issued option grants and restricted stock awards to officers and key employees pursuant to the Companys Long term Management Incentive Program. Certain officers and key employees of the Company receiving option grants and restricted stock awards are eligible for retirement. Compensation expense related to option grants and restricted stock awards issued to these retirement eligible employees is recognized in earnings on the date of grant. Selling, general, and administrative expense for 2007 and 2006 includes compensation expense related to option grants and restricted stock awards granted to retirement eligible employees of $30 million and $31 million, respectively. Other income increased $1.0 billion primarily due to the $440 million Wilmar Gain, a $357 million gain on the sale of the Companys equity securities of Tyson Foods, Inc. and Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc., a $153 million gain on the sale of the Companys interest in Agricore United, and a $53 million gain on the sale of the Companys Arkady food ingredient business. Other income also includes a $46 million charge related to the repurchase of $400 million of the Companys outstanding debentures. Excluding these items, other income increased $73 million primarily due to a $120 million increase in equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates, and a $53 million increase in investment income, partially offset by a $69 million increase in interest expense and a $27 million reduction in gains on sales of long lived assets. The increase in equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates is primarily due to higher valuations of the Companys private equity fund investments and improved operating results of the Companys Asian oilseed crushing ventures. Interest expense and investment income increased primarily due to increased average borrowing and investment levels. Operating profit by segment is as follows: 2007 2006 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing $ 1,117 $ 599 $ 518 Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 485 432 53 Bioproducts 634 445 189 Total Corn Processing 1,119 877 242 Agricultural Services 516 275 241 Other Food, Feed, and Industrial 214 159 55 Financial 195 151 44 Total Other 409 310 99 Total Segment Operating Profit 3,161 2,061 1,100 Corporate (7 ) (206 ) 199 Earnings Before Income Taxes $ 3,154 $ 1,855 $ 1,299 Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Oilseeds Processing operating profits increased $518 million to $1.1 billion due to the $440 million Wilmar Gain and improved market conditions in all geographic regions. North American processing results improved principally due to abundant oilseed supplies in the United States and good demand for vegetable oil and soybean meal. Vegetable oil values improved as the markets anticipate new demand from the developing United States biodiesel industry. North American processing results were also favorably impacted by lower plant operating costs resulting from improved capacity utilization. Asian joint venture results improved due to improved palm processing operating results partially offset by decreased soy crushing operating results. European processing results improved principally due to abundant oilseed supplies in Europe and strong demand for vegetable oil. The strong demand for vegetable oil is the result of strong biodiesel demand. These increases were partially offset by decreased biodiesel operating profits resulting from higher vegetable oil prices, increased market production capacity, and lower diesel fuel prices. South American processing results declined principally due to last years $27 million credit for Brazilian transactional taxes. Excluding the impact of last years credit for Brazilian transactional taxes, South American processing results improved principally due to increased fertilizer margins. The improvement in fertilizer margins was primarily due to higher average sales prices due to improved fertilizer demand combined with stable raw material costs. Operating profits for 2007 include a $5 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Operating profits for 2006 include a $14 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets and a $6 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47. Corn Processing operating profits increased $242 million to $1.1 billion principally due to higher average selling prices and lower energy costs, partially offset by lower ethanol sales volumes and higher net corn costs. Net corn costs have increased approximately 60% during 2007 due to significant demand increases for corn resulting primarily from the increase in corn derived ethanol industry capacity. Agricultural commodity market concerns regarding the expected decline in the ending 2006 corn crop carryover has also contributed to the increase in corn costs. Sweeteners and Starches operating profits increased $53 million due primarily to higher average sales prices and lower energy costs. Sales prices have increased principally due to good demand for sweetener and starch products. These increases were partially offset by increased net corn costs. Sweeteners and Starches operating profits for 2006 include a $5 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47. Bioproducts operating profits increased $189 million primarily due to higher ethanol average selling prices and lower energy costs, partially offset by increased net corn costs and lower ethanol sales volumes. Ethanol average sales prices increased principally due to strong demand from gasoline refiners and higher gasoline prices. Ethanol sales volumes decreased as 2006 sales volumes exceeded production due to the release of inventories built up in anticipation of refiners replacing MTBE with ethanol. Bioproducts operating results for 2007 include a $1 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Bioproducts operating results for 2006 include a $6 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets, a $2 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47, and $6 million of costs related to the closure of a citric acid plant. Agricultural Services operating profits increased $241 million to $516 million principally due to a $153 million gain from the sale of the Companys interest in Agricore United, a Canadian business which specialized in crop input, crop protection services, and grain marketing and merchandising. Excluding the Agricore United gain, Agricultural Services operating profits increased $88 million to $363 million principally due to improved global grain merchandising operating results and, to a lesser extent, improved transportation and North American origination operating results. Global grain merchandising results improved as regional production imbalances allowed the Company to capitalize on merchandising opportunities. North American river transportation operating results increased primarily due to increased barge freight rates created by strong demand for barge capacity. North American origination operating results improved due to good export demand for agricultural commodities and higher ocean freight rates. Agricultural Services operating profits for 2007 include a $12 million trade disruption insurance recovery related to Hurricane Katrina. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Other operating profits increased $99 million to $409 million. Other Food, Feed, and Industrial operating profits increased $55 million and include a $53 million gain on the sale of the Companys Arkady food ingredient business and a $15 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Other Food, Feed, and Industrial operating results for 2006 include a $51 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets, a $2 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47, a $9 million charge representing the Companys share of a charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets reported by an unconsolidated affiliate of the Company, a $17 million gain from the sale of long lived assets, and a $16 million charge related to exiting the European animal feed business. Excluding the effect of these 2007 and 2006 items, Other Food, Feed, and Industrial operating profits declined $44 million due primarily to cocoa processing operating results declining from prior year levels and costs related to the start up of the Companys natural plastics production operations. Cocoa processing operating results declined primarily due to increased industry production capacity which caused downward pressure on cocoa processing margins. These increases were partially offset by improved operating results of the Companys wheat flour processing and protein specialty operations. Other Financial operating profits increased $44 million principally due to increased valuations of the Companys private equity fund investments and higher operating results of the Companys futures commission merchant business, partially offset by lower operating results of the Companys captive insurance operations. The results of the Companys captive insurance operations for 2007 include a $12 million charge related to a Hurricane Katrina trade disruption insurance settlement. Corporate expense decreased $199 million to $7 million principally due to a $345 million increase in realized securities gains principally resulting from sales of the Companys equity securities of Tyson Foods, Inc. and Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc. and a $103 million reduction in unallocated interest expense due principally to higher levels of invested funds and higher interest rates. These decreases were partially offset by a $206 million charge, compared to a $12 million credit in the prior year, related to the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations and a $46 million charge related to the repurchase of $400 million of the Companys outstanding debentures. Income taxes increased due principally to higher pretax earnings and the absence of last years $36 million income tax credit related to the recognition of federal and state income tax credits and adjustments resulting from the reconciliation of filed tax returns to the previously estimated tax provision. The Companys effective tax rate during 2007 was 31.5% and, after excluding the effect of last years $36 million tax credit, was 31.2% for the prior year. The increase in the Companys effective tax rate is primarily due to changes in the geographic mix of pretax earnings. 2006 Compared to 2005 As an agricultural based commodity business, the Company is subject to a variety of market factors which affect the Companys operating results. Strong biodiesel demand in Europe continued to create increased vegetable oil demand and has positively impacted rapeseed crushing margins in Europe. Abundant oilseed supplies and strong protein meal demand have positively impacted oilseed crushing margins in North America. A good corn supply resulting in lower price levels for corn favorably impacted corn processing operations, while ethanol experienced good demand due to gasoline refiners replacing MTBE with ethanol. Solid demand for sweetener and starch products has also improved corn processing results. During the first half of 2006, hurricanes in the gulf coast region of the United States disrupted North American grain origination and agricultural commodity export operations, negatively impacting export sales volumes. The gulf coast hurricanes also disrupted river transportation, resulting in increased barge demand and barge freight rates. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Net earnings increased principally due to improved operating results of Oilseeds Processing and Corn Processing. In addition, net earnings also increased due to a $36 million reduction in income tax expense related to the recognition of federal and state income tax credits and adjustments resulting from the reconciliation of filed tax returns to the previously estimated tax provision. Earnings before income taxes for 2006 include charges of $31 million resulting from the Companys adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) Number 123(R), Share Based Payment, $15 million resulting from the Companys adoption of FIN 47, $71 million related to abandonment and write down of long lived assets, $9 million representing the Companys share of a charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets reported by an unconsolidated affiliate of the Company, and $22 million associated with the closure of a citric acid plant and exiting the European animal feed business. Earnings before income taxes for 2006 also include credits of $12 million from the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations, $17 million from the sale of long lived assets, $46 million related to Brazilian transactional tax credits, and $40 million related to realized securities gains. Earnings before income taxes for 2005 included credits of $114 million from the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations, $114 million of realized securities gain from the sale of Tate & Lyle PLC shares, and $45 million representing the Companys equity share of the gain reported by the Companys unconsolidated affiliate, Compagnie Industrielle et Financiere des Produits Amylaces SA (CIP), upon the sale of its interest in Tate & Lyle PLC (the CIP Gain). Earnings before income taxes for 2005 also include a $42 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Analysis of Statements of Earnings Net sales and other operating income increased 2% to $36.6 billion due primarily to higher average selling prices of agricultural commodities and increased sales volumes and selling prices of corn processing products, partially offset by decreased average selling prices of cocoa products and currency exchange rate decreases of $415 million. Net sales and other operating income by segment are as follows: 2006 2005 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing $ 11,867 $ 11,803 $ 64 Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 2,133 1,905 228 Bioproducts 2,727 2,459 268 Total Corn Processing 4,860 4,364 496 Agricultural Services 15,440 15,198 242 Other Food, Feed, and Industrial 4,354 4,506 (152 ) Financial 75 72 3 Total Other 4,429 4,578 (149 ) Total $ 36,596 $ 35,943 653 Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Oilseeds Processing sales increased $64 million to $11.9 billion principally due to higher average selling prices of South American oilseed exports and of vegetable oil. These increases were partially offset by lower average selling prices of protein meal. Corn Processing sales increased 11% to $4.9 billion due to sales increases in both Sweeteners and Starches and Bioproducts. Sweeteners and Starches sales increased due to higher average selling prices and sales volumes. Sales volumes and prices have increased primarily due to solid demand for sweetener and starch products. Bioproducts sales increased primarily due to increased sales volumes and average selling prices of ethanol, partially offset by lower average selling prices of lysine. The increases in ethanol sales volumes and sales prices were principally due to increased demand from gasoline refiners as refiners used ethanol to replace MTBE as a gasoline additive and to increased gasoline prices. Agricultural Services sales increased 2% to $15.4 billion primarily due to increased commodity prices in North America and, to a lesser extent, increased barge freight rates as the gulf coast hurricanes reduced barge capacities and created strong demand for North American river transportation. These increases were partially offset by decreased commodity sales volumes in North America. The decreased sales volumes were primarily due to disruptions in North American grain origination and export activities caused by the hurricanes in the gulf coast region. Other sales decreased 3% to $4.4 billion primarily due to decreased average selling prices of cocoa products and lower sales volumes of formula feed products. These decreases were partially offset by increased average selling prices of wheat flour products due to higher commodity prices. Cost of products sold increased $118 million to $33.6 billion due primarily to higher average prices of agricultural commodities and increased manufacturing costs, partially offset by currency exchange rate decreases of $389 million. Manufacturing costs increased $399 million primarily due to increased energy costs, an $86 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets, and increased employee related costs. Selling, general, and administrative expenses increased $112 million to $1.2 billion principally due to increased employee related costs, including a $31 million charge related to the adoption of SFAS 123(R), $20 million of severance costs associated with the closure of a citric acid plant, and increased provisions for doubtful accounts. Other income decreased $84 million due primarily to a $73 million decrease in realized securities gains, a $55 million decrease in equity in earnings of affiliates, and a $39 million increase in interest expense, partially offset by a $69 million increase in investment income. The decrease in realized securities gains is primarily due to the $114 million realized securities gain in 2005 from the sale of Tate & Lyle PLC shares, partially offset by $40 million of realized securities gains during 2006. The decrease in equity in earnings of affiliates is primarily due to the CIP Gain in 2005 and lower valuations of the Companys private equity fund investments in 2006, partially offset by improved earnings of the Companys Asian oilseed crushing ventures. Interest expense increased primarily due to higher average borrowing levels and interest rates. Investment income increased primarily due to the reversal of $19 million of Brazilian transactional taxes previously assessed on investment income upon positive resolution in the Brazilian Supreme Court, higher levels of invested funds, and higher interest rates. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Operating profit by segment is as follows: 2006 2005 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing $ 599 $ 345 $ 254 Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 431 271 160 Bioproducts 446 259 187 Total Corn Processing 877 530 347 Agricultural Services 275 262 13 Other Food, Feed, and Industrial 159 263 (104 ) Financial 151 151 Total Other 310 414 (104 ) Total Segment Operating Profit 2,061 1,551 510 Corporate (206 ) (35 ) (171 ) Earnings Before Income Taxes $ 1,855 $ 1,516 $ 339 Oilseeds Processing operating profits increased $254 million to $599 million primarily due to improved market conditions in all geographic regions. European processing results improved principally due to strong demand for biodiesel and abundant rapeseed supplies in Europe. This strong demand for biodiesel in Europe increased European vegetable oil demand and resulted in improved oilseeds processing results. Abundant rapeseed supplies in Europe resulted in lower rapeseed price levels. North American processing results improved principally due to abundant oilseed supplies in the United States and good demand for soybean meal. Vegetable oil values were solid as the markets anticipate new demand from the developing United States biodiesel industry. South American operating results increased primarily due to improved origination activities and a $27 million credit for Brazilian transactional taxes. Operating results in Asia increased due to improved soy crushing margins and improved palm operations. Operating profits include a $14 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets and a $6 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47. Operating profits for 2005 include a charge of $13 million for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Corn Processing operating profits increased $347 million to $877 million primarily due to higher average selling prices, increased sales volumes, and lower net corn costs, partially offset by increased energy costs. Sweeteners and Starches operating profits increased $160 million due primarily to decreased net corn costs and higher average sales prices and sales volumes. Sales volumes and prices have increased primarily due to good demand for sweetener and starch products. These increases were partially offset by increased energy costs. Sweeteners and Starches operating profits include a $5 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47. Bioproducts operating profits increased $187 million primarily due to higher ethanol sales volumes and average selling prices and decreased net corn costs, partially offset by increased energy costs and lower lysine average selling prices. The increases in ethanol sales volumes and average sales prices were principally due to increased demand from gasoline refiners as refiners used ethanol to replace MTBE as a gasoline additive and from increased gasoline prices. Bioproducts operating profits include a $6 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets, a $2 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47, and $6 million of costs related to the closure of a citric acid plant. Bioproducts operating profits for 2005 include a $16 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Agricultural Services operating profits increased $13 million to $275 million as improved results from transportation operations were partially offset by a decline in global grain merchandising and North American origination operating results. North American river transportation operating results increased primarily due to increased barge freight rates created by strong demand for barge capacity. This increase was partially offset by increased fuel costs. The gulf coast hurricanes negatively impacted North American origination and export activities during the first half of 2006. Other operating profits decreased $104 million to $310 million. Other Food, Feed, and Industrial operating results decreased $104 million due primarily to a $51 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets, a $2 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47, and a $9 million charge representing the Companys share of a charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets reported by an unconsolidated affiliate of the Company. In addition, cocoa processing, natural health and nutrition, and formula feed operating results declined from prior year levels. Cocoa processing operating results declined primarily due to increased industry capacity which caused downward pressure on cocoa finished product prices. Formula feed operating results declined due to costs associated with exiting the European animal feed business. Other Food, Feed, and Industrial operating profits include a $17 million gain from the sale of long lived assets. Other Food, Feed, and Industrial operating results for 2005 include a $13 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Other Financial operating profits are comparable to prior year levels as improvements in the Companys captive insurance operations and futures commission merchant business offset lower valuations of the Companys private equity fund investments. Corporate decreased $171 million due primarily to a $102 million decrease in income from the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations, the $114 million realized securities gain in 2005 from the sale of Tate & Lyle PLC shares, the CIP Gain in 2005, and a $22 million charge in 2006 upon the adoption of SFAS 123(R), partially offset by the aforementioned $19 million reversal of Brazilian transactional taxes and a $97 million reduction in unallocated interest expense. The reduction in unallocated interest expense is due principally to higher levels of invested funds and higher interest rates. Income taxes increased due principally to higher pretax earnings. This increase was partially offset by a $36 million reduction in income tax expense related to the recognition of federal and state income tax credits and adjustments resulting from the reconciliation of filed tax returns to the previously estimated tax provision. The Companys effective tax rate for 2006 was 29.3% as compared to 31.1% for 2005. Excluding the effect of the $36 million tax credit, the Companys effective tax rate was 31.2% for 2006 and, after excluding the effect of the CIP Gain, was 32.1% for 2005. No tax was provided on the CIP Gain in 2005, as CIP is a corporate joint venture of the Company and the proceeds from the sale are permanently reinvested. Excluding the effect of the $36 million tax credit in 2006 and the CIP Gain in 2005, the decrease in the Companys effective tax rate is primarily due to changes in the geographic mix of pretax earnings. Liquidity and Capital Resources The Companys objective is to have sufficient liquidity, balance sheet strength, and financial flexibility to fund the operating and capital requirements of a capital intensive agricultural based commodity business. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) At June 30, 2007, the Company continued to show substantial liquidity with working capital of $7.3 billion and a current ratio, defined as current assets divided by current liabilities, of 1.9 to 1. Included in working capital is $875 million of cash, cash equivalents, and short term marketable securities as well as $4.4 billion of readily marketable commodity inventories. Cash generated from operating activities totaled $303 million for the year compared to $1.4 billion last year. This decrease was primarily due to an increase in working capital requirements principally related to increased prices and quantities of agricultural commodity inventories and increased receivables, partially offset by increased cash earnings. Despite increased investment in property, plant, and equipment, cash used in investing activities decreased $714 million for the year to $355 million due primarily to increased sales of marketable securities and proceeds from sales of businesses including the sale of the Companys equity interests in Tyson Foods, Inc., Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc. and Agricore United. Cash used in financing activities was $398 million compared to cash generated by financing activities of $284 million last year. Net long term borrowings increased primarily as a result of the issuance of $1.2 billion of convertible senior notes in February 2007 (described in detail below), compared to $600 million of 30 year debentures issued in September 2005. This increase was partially offset by $283 million of increased payments on long term debt principally related to the Company retiring $400 million of debentures in 2007. Capital resources were strengthened as shown by the increase in the Companys net worth from $9.8 billion to $11.3 billion. The Companys ratio of long term debt to total capital (the sum of the Companys long term debt and shareholders equity) was 30% at June 30, 2007, and 29% at June 30, 2006. This ratio is a measure of the Companys long term liquidity and is an indicator of financial flexibility. The Company currently has $3.9 billion of commercial paper and commercial bank lines available to meet seasonal cash requirements of which $2.6 billion are committed and $1.3 billion are uncommitted. At June 30, 2007, the Company had $468 million of short term debt outstanding. Standard & Poors, Moodys, and Fitch rate the Companys commercial paper as A 1, P 1, and F1, respectively, and rate the Companys long term debt as A, A2, and A+, respectively. In addition to the cash flow generated from operations, the Company has access to equity and debt capital through numerous alternatives from public and private sources in domestic and international markets. In February 2007, the Company issued $1.2 billion principal amount of convertible senior notes due in 2014 (the Notes) in a private placement. The Notes were issued at par and bear interest at a rate of 0.875% per year, payable semiannually. The Notes are convertible based on an initial conversion rate of 22.8343 shares per $1,000 principal amount of Notes (which is equal to an initial conversion price of approximately $43.79 per share). The Notes may be converted, subject to adjustment, only under the following circumstances: 1) during any calendar quarter beginning after March 31, 2007, if the closing price of the Companys common stock for at least 20 trading days in the 30 consecutive trading days ending on the last trading day of the immediately preceding quarter is more than 140% of the applicable conversion price per share, which is $1,000 divided by the then applicable conversion rate, 2) during the five consecutive business day period immediately after any five consecutive trading day period (the note measurement period) in which the average of the trading price per $1,000 principal amount of Notes was equal to or less than 98% of the average of the product of the closing price of the Companys common stock and the conversion rate at each date during the note measurement period, 3) if the Company makes specified distributions to its common stockholders or specified corporate transactions occur, or 4) at any time on or after January 15, 2014, through the business day preceding the maturity date. Upon conversion, a holder would receive an amount in cash equal to the lesser of 1) $1,000 and 2) the conversion value, as defined. If the conversion value exceeds $1,000, the Company will deliver, at the Companys election, cash or common stock or a combination of cash and common stock for the conversion value in excess of $1,000. If the Notes are converted in connection with a change in control, as defined, the Company may be required to provide a make whole premium in the form of an increase in the conversion rate, subject to a stated maximum amount. In addition, in the event of a change in control, the holders may require the Company to purchase all or a portion of their Notes at a purchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Concurrent with the issuance of the Notes, the Company purchased call options in private transactions at a cost of $299 million. The purchased call options allow the Company to receive shares of its common stock and or cash from the counterparties equal to the amounts of common stock and or cash related to the excess of the current market price of the Companys common stock over the exercise price of the purchased call options. In addition, the Company sold warrants in private transactions to acquire, subject to customary anti dilution adjustments, 26.3 million shares of its common stock at an exercise price of $62.56 per share and received proceeds of $170 million. If the average price of the Companys common stock during a defined period ending on or about the respective settlement dates exceeds the exercise price of the warrants, the warrants will be settled, at the Companys option, in cash or shares of common stock. The purchased call options and warrants are intended to reduce the potential dilution upon future conversions of the Notes by effectively increasing the initial conversion price to $62.56 per share. Upon closing of the sale of the Notes, $370 million of the net proceeds from the Note issuance and the proceeds from the warrant transactions were used to repurchase 10.3 million shares of the Companys common stock under the Companys stock repurchase program. As of June 30, 2007, none of the conditions permitting conversion of the Notes had been satisfied. In addition, as of June 30, 2007, the market price of the Companys common stock was not greater than the exercise price of the purchased call options or warrants. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements In the normal course of business, the Company enters into contracts and commitments which obligate the Company to make payments in the future. The following table sets forth the Companys significant future obligations by time period. Purchases include commodity based contracts entered into in the normal course of business, which are further described in Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, energy related purchase contracts entered into in the normal course of business, and other purchase obligations related to the Companys normal business activities. Where applicable, information included in the Companys consolidated financial statements and notes is cross referenced in this table. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Payments Due by Period Contractual Note Less than 2 3 4 5 Over Obligations Reference Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years (In millions) Purchases Inventories $ 11,113 $ 10,312 $ 535 $ 159 $ 107 Energy 429 269 152 7 1 Other 217 67 94 43 13 Total purchases 11,759 10,648 781 209 121 Short term debt Note 7 468 468 Long term debt Note 7 4,897 65 92 425 4,315 Estimated interest payments 5,752 290 509 474 4,479 Operating leases Note 12 900 318 241 132 209 Estimated pension and other postretirement plan contributions Note 13 1,045 79 173 195 598 Total $ 24,821 $ 11,868 $ 1,796 $ 1,435 $ 9,722 At June 30, 2007, the Company estimates it will spend approximately $3.0 billion over the next four years to complete approved capital projects and acquisitions. The Company is a limited partner in various private equity funds which invest primarily in emerging markets. At June 30, 2007, the Companys carrying value of these limited partnership investments was $165 million. The Company has future capital commitments related to these partnerships of $138 million and expects the majority of these additional capital commitments, if called for, to be funded by cash flows generated by the partnerships. The Company also has outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds of $339 million at June 30, 2007. In addition, the Company has entered into agreements, primarily debt guarantee agreements related to equity method investees, which could obligate the Company to make future payments. The Companys liability under these agreements arises only if the primary entity fails to perform its contractual obligation. The Company has collateral for a portion of these contingent obligations. At June 30, 2007, these contingent obligations totaled approximately $98 million. Amounts outstanding for the primary entity under these contingent obligations were $51 million at June 30, 2007. Critical Accounting Policies The process of preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the carrying values of the Companys assets and liabilities as well as the recognition of revenues and expenses. These estimates and judgments are based on the Companys historical experience and managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Certain of the Companys accounting policies are considered critical, as these policies are important to the depiction of the Companys financial statements and require significant or complex judgment by management. Management has discussed with the Companys Audit Committee the development, selection, disclosure, and application of these critical accounting policies. Following are the accounting policies management considers critical to the Companys financial statements. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Inventories and Derivatives Certain of the Companys merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, forward fixed price purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and options contracts are valued at estimated market values. These merchandisable agricultural commodities are freely traded, have quoted market prices, and may be sold without significant additional processing. Management estimates market value based on exchange quoted prices, adjusted for differences in local markets. Changes in the market values of these inventories and contracts are recognized in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. If management used different methods or factors to estimate market value, amounts reported as inventories and cost of products sold could differ. Additionally, if market conditions change subsequent to year end, amounts reported in future periods as inventories and cost of products sold could differ. The Company, from time to time, uses derivative contracts to fix the purchase price of anticipated volumes of commodities to be purchased and processed in a future month, to fix the purchase price of the Companys anticipated natural gas requirements for certain production facilities, and to fix the sales price of anticipated volumes of ethanol. These derivative contracts are designated as cash flow hedges. The change in the market value of such derivative contracts has historically been, and is expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. If it is determined that the derivative instruments used are no longer effective at offsetting changes in the price of the hedged item, then the changes in the market value of these exchange traded futures contracts would be recorded in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. Employee Benefit Plans The Company provides substantially all domestic employees and employees at certain international subsidiaries with pension benefits. The Company also provides substantially all domestic salaried employees with postretirement health care and life insurance benefits. In order to measure the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans, management makes several estimates and assumptions, including interest rates used to discount certain liabilities, rates of return on assets set aside to fund these plans, rates of compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and anticipated future health care costs. These estimates and assumptions are based on the Companys historical experience combined with managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Management also uses third party specialists to assist in measuring the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans. If management used different estimates and assumptions regarding these plans, the funded status of the plans could vary significantly, and the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Income Taxes The Company frequently faces challenges from domestic and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company records reserves for probable exposures. Deferred tax assets represent items to be used as tax deductions or credits in future tax returns, and the related tax benefit has already been recognized in the Companys income statement. Realization of certain deferred tax assets reflects the Companys tax planning strategies. Valuation allowances related to these deferred tax assets have been established to the extent the realization of the tax benefit is not probable. Based on managements evaluation of the Companys tax position, it is believed the amounts related to these tax exposures are appropriately accrued. To the extent the Company were to favorably resolve matters for which accruals have been established or be required to pay amounts in excess of the aforementioned reserves, the Companys effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be impacted. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and affiliated corporate joint ventures accounted for on the equity method are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by unpredictable factors such as weather, plantings, government (domestic and foreign) farm programs and policies, changes in population growth, changes in standards of living, and production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned unpredictable factors, therefore, may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and profitability of the Companys fixed asset base in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its factories. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment and technology related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. Assets are abandoned after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of this fixed asset base, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Valuation of Marketable Securities and Investments in Affiliates The Company classifies the majority of its marketable securities as available for sale and carries these securities at fair value. Investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings. For publicly traded securities, the fair value of the Companys investments is readily available based on quoted market prices. For non publicly traded securities, managements assessment of fair value is based on valuation methodologies including discounted cash flows and estimates of sales proceeds. In the event of a decline in fair value of an investment below carrying value, management may be required to determine if the decline in fair value is other than temporary. In evaluating the nature of a decline in the fair value of an investment, management considers the market conditions, trends of earnings, discounted cash flows, trading volumes, and other key measures of the investment as well as the Companys ability and intent to hold the investment. When such a decline in value is deemed to be other than temporary, an impairment loss is recognized in the current period operating results to the extent of the decline. See Notes 3 and 5 to the Companys consolidated financial statements for information regarding the Companys marketable securities and investments in affiliates. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these marketable securities, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) The Company is a limited partner in various private equity funds which invest primarily in emerging markets. The Company accounts for these limited partnerships using the equity method of accounting. Therefore, the Company is recording in the consolidated statement of earnings its proportional share of the limited partnerships net income or loss. The limited partnerships value their investments at fair value. Thus, unrealized gains and losses related to the change in fair value of these investments are recorded in the limited partnerships statements of earnings. The valuation of these investments, as determined by the general partner, can be subjective, and the values may vary significantly. Some of the factors causing the subjectivity and volatility of these valuations include the illiquidity and minority positions of these investments, currency exchange rate fluctuations, less regulated securities exchanges, and the inherent business risks and limitations present in the emerging market countries. The Company records the results of these limited partnerships based on the information provided to the Company by the general partner. Due to the subjectivity and volatility in valuing these investments, the fair value of these investments, and thus the Companys results, could vary significantly over future periods. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in commodities futures prices, marketable equity security prices, market prices of limited partnerships investments, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and price of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to unpredictable factors such as weather, plantings, government (domestic and foreign) farm programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. To reduce price risk caused by market fluctuations, the Company generally follows a policy of using exchange traded futures and options contracts to minimize its net position of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories and forward cash purchase and sales contracts. The Company will also use exchange traded futures and options contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the volatility of the relationship between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contracts defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company from time to time enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) A sensitivity analysis has been prepared to estimate the Companys exposure to market risk of its daily net commodity position. The Companys daily net commodity position consists of inventories, related purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures contracts, including those contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements. The fair value of such daily net commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing each net position at quoted futures prices. Market risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in such prices. Actual results may differ. 2007 2006 Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest long position $ 703 $ 70 $ 510 $ 51 Highest short position 565 57 574 57 Average position long (short) 180 18 (203 ) (20 ) The change in fair value of the average position for 2007 compared to 2006 was principally a result of changes in the daily net commodity position and commodity prices. Marketable Equity Securities Marketable equity securities, which are recorded at fair value, have exposure to price risk. The fair value of marketable equity securities is based on quoted market prices. Risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted market prices. Actual results may differ. 2007 2006 (In millions) Fair value $ 227 $ 640 Market risk 23 64 The decrease in fair value for 2007 compared to 2006 resulted primarily from disposals of securities partially offset by increases in fair market value of certain securities. Limited Partnerships The Company is a limited partner in various private equity funds which invest primarily in emerging markets. The Company accounts for these limited partnerships using the equity method of accounting. Therefore, the Company is recording in the consolidated statement of earnings its proportional share of the limited partnerships net income or loss. The limited partnerships value their investments at fair value. Risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in market prices of the limited partnerships investments. Actual results may differ. 2007 2006 (In millions) Fair value of partnerships investments $ 188 $ 210 Market risk 19 21 The decrease in fair value for 2007 compared to 2006 resulted primarily from returns of capital. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) Currencies In order to reduce the risk of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, except for amounts permanently invested as described below, the Company follows a policy of entering into currency exchange forward contracts to mitigate its foreign currency risk related to transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currencies applicable to each of its various entities. The instruments used are readily marketable exchange traded futures contracts and forward contracts with banks. The changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $5.4 billion at June 30, 2007, and $4.5 billion at June 30, 2006. This increase is due to an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and appreciation of foreign currency exchange rates. The potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $543 million and $454 million for 2007 and 2006, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical .5 % decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2007 2006 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 4,927 $ 4,387 Excess of fair value over carrying value 110 257 Market risk 204 218 The increase in fair value of long term debt in 2007 resulted principally from the Companys issuance of $1.2 billion convertible senior notes partially offset by repayment of $400 million of debentures and other principal payments of long term debt. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Oilseeds Processing operating profits increased $518 million to $1.1 billion due to the $440 million Wilmar Gain and improved market conditions in all geographic regions. North American processing results improved principally due to abundant oilseed supplies in the United States and good demand for vegetable oil and soybean meal. Vegetable oil values improved as the markets anticipate new demand from the developing United States biodiesel industry. North American processing results were also favorably impacted by lower plant operating costs resulting from improved capacity utilization. Asian joint venture results improved due to improved palm processing operating results partially offset by decreased soy crushing operating results. European processing results improved principally due to abundant oilseed supplies in Europe and strong demand for vegetable oil. The strong demand for vegetable oil is the result of strong biodiesel demand. These increases were partially offset by decreased biodiesel operating profits resulting from higher vegetable oil prices, increased market production capacity, and lower diesel fuel prices. South American processing results declined principally due to last years $27 million credit for Brazilian transactional taxes. Excluding the impact of last years credit for Brazilian transactional taxes, South American processing results improved principally due to increased fertilizer margins. The improvement in fertilizer margins was primarily due to higher average sales prices due to improved fertilizer demand combined with stable raw material costs. Operating profits for 2007 include a $5 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Operating profits for 2006 include a $14 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets and a $6 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47. Corn Processing operating profits increased $242 million to $1.1 billion principally due to higher average selling prices and lower energy costs, partially offset by lower ethanol sales volumes and higher net corn costs. Net corn costs have increased approximately 60% during 2007 due to significant demand increases for corn resulting primarily from the increase in corn derived ethanol industry capacity. Agricultural commodity market concerns regarding the expected decline in the ending 2006 corn crop carryover has also contributed to the increase in corn costs. Sweeteners and Starches operating profits increased $53 million due primarily to higher average sales prices and lower energy costs. Sales prices have increased principally due to good demand for sweetener and starch products. These increases were partially offset by increased net corn costs. Sweeteners and Starches operating profits for 2006 include a $5 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47. Bioproducts operating profits increased $189 million primarily due to higher ethanol average selling prices and lower energy costs, partially offset by increased net corn costs and lower ethanol sales volumes. Ethanol average sales prices increased principally due to strong demand from gasoline refiners and higher gasoline prices. Ethanol sales volumes decreased as 2006 sales volumes exceeded production due to the release of inventories built up in anticipation of refiners replacing MTBE with ethanol. Bioproducts operating results for 2007 include a $1 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Bioproducts operating results for 2006 include a $6 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets, a $2 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47, and $6 million of costs related to the closure of a citric acid plant. Agricultural Services operating profits increased $241 million to $516 million principally due to a $153 million gain from the sale of the Companys interest in Agricore United, a Canadian business which specialized in crop input, crop protection services, and grain marketing and merchandising. Excluding the Agricore United gain, Agricultural Services operating profits increased $88 million to $363 million principally due to improved global grain merchandising operating results and, to a lesser extent, improved transportation and North American origination operating results. Global grain merchandising results improved as regional production imbalances allowed the Company to capitalize on merchandising opportunities. North American river transportation operating results increased primarily due to increased barge freight rates created by strong demand for barge capacity. North American origination operating results improved due to good export demand for agricultural commodities and higher ocean freight rates. Agricultural Services operating profits for 2007 include a $12 million trade disruption insurance recovery related to Hurricane Katrina. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Other operating profits increased $99 million to $409 million. Other Food, Feed, and Industrial operating profits increased $55 million and include a $53 million gain on the sale of the Companys Arkady food ingredient business and a $15 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Other Food, Feed, and Industrial operating results for 2006 include a $51 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets, a $2 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47, a $9 million charge representing the Companys share of a charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets reported by an unconsolidated affiliate of the Company, a $17 million gain from the sale of long lived assets, and a $16 million charge related to exiting the European animal feed business. Excluding the effect of these 2007 and 2006 items, Other Food, Feed, and Industrial operating profits declined $44 million due primarily to cocoa processing operating results declining from prior year levels and costs related to the start up of the Companys natural plastics production operations. Cocoa processing operating results declined primarily due to increased industry production capacity which caused downward pressure on cocoa processing margins. These increases were partially offset by improved operating results of the Companys wheat flour processing and protein specialty operations. Other Financial operating profits increased $44 million principally due to increased valuations of the Companys private equity fund investments and higher operating results of the Companys futures commission merchant business, partially offset by lower operating results of the Companys captive insurance operations. The results of the Companys captive insurance operations for 2007 include a $12 million charge related to a Hurricane Katrina trade disruption insurance settlement. Corporate expense decreased $199 million to $7 million principally due to a $345 million increase in realized securities gains principally resulting from sales of the Companys equity securities of Tyson Foods, Inc. and Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc. and a $103 million reduction in unallocated interest expense due principally to higher levels of invested funds and higher interest rates. These decreases were partially offset by a $206 million charge, compared to a $12 million credit in the prior year, related to the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations and a $46 million charge related to the repurchase of $400 million of the Companys outstanding debentures. Income taxes increased due principally to higher pretax earnings and the absence of last years $36 million income tax credit related to the recognition of federal and state income tax credits and adjustments resulting from the reconciliation of filed tax returns to the previously estimated tax provision. The Companys effective tax rate during 2007 was 31.5% and, after excluding the effect of last years $36 million tax credit, was 31.2% for the prior year. The increase in the Companys effective tax rate is primarily due to changes in the geographic mix of pretax earnings. 2006 Compared to 2005 As an agricultural based commodity business, the Company is subject to a variety of market factors which affect the Companys operating results. Strong biodiesel demand in Europe continued to create increased vegetable oil demand and has positively impacted rapeseed crushing margins in Europe. Abundant oilseed supplies and strong protein meal demand have positively impacted oilseed crushing margins in North America. A good corn supply resulting in lower price levels for corn favorably impacted corn processing operations, while ethanol experienced good demand due to gasoline refiners replacing MTBE with ethanol. Solid demand for sweetener and starch products has also improved corn processing results. During the first half of 2006, hurricanes in the gulf coast region of the United States disrupted North American grain origination and agricultural commodity export operations, negatively impacting export sales volumes. The gulf coast hurricanes also disrupted river transportation, resulting in increased barge demand and barge freight rates. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Net earnings increased principally due to improved operating results of Oilseeds Processing and Corn Processing. In addition, net earnings also increased due to a $36 million reduction in income tax expense related to the recognition of federal and state income tax credits and adjustments resulting from the reconciliation of filed tax returns to the previously estimated tax provision. Earnings before income taxes for 2006 include charges of $31 million resulting from the Companys adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) Number 123(R), Share Based Payment, $15 million resulting from the Companys adoption of FIN 47, $71 million related to abandonment and write down of long lived assets, $9 million representing the Companys share of a charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets reported by an unconsolidated affiliate of the Company, and $22 million associated with the closure of a citric acid plant and exiting the European animal feed business. Earnings before income taxes for 2006 also include credits of $12 million from the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations, $17 million from the sale of long lived assets, $46 million related to Brazilian transactional tax credits, and $40 million related to realized securities gains. Earnings before income taxes for 2005 included credits of $114 million from the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations, $114 million of realized securities gain from the sale of Tate & Lyle PLC shares, and $45 million representing the Companys equity share of the gain reported by the Companys unconsolidated affiliate, Compagnie Industrielle et Financiere des Produits Amylaces SA (CIP), upon the sale of its interest in Tate & Lyle PLC (the CIP Gain). Earnings before income taxes for 2005 also include a $42 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Analysis of Statements of Earnings Net sales and other operating income increased 2% to $36.6 billion due primarily to higher average selling prices of agricultural commodities and increased sales volumes and selling prices of corn processing products, partially offset by decreased average selling prices of cocoa products and currency exchange rate decreases of $415 million. Net sales and other operating income by segment are as follows: 2006 2005 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing $ 11,867 $ 11,803 $ 64 Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 2,133 1,905 228 Bioproducts 2,727 2,459 268 Total Corn Processing 4,860 4,364 496 Agricultural Services 15,440 15,198 242 Other Food, Feed, and Industrial 4,354 4,506 (152 ) Financial 75 72 3 Total Other 4,429 4,578 (149 ) Total $ 36,596 $ 35,943 653 Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Oilseeds Processing sales increased $64 million to $11.9 billion principally due to higher average selling prices of South American oilseed exports and of vegetable oil. These increases were partially offset by lower average selling prices of protein meal. Corn Processing sales increased 11% to $4.9 billion due to sales increases in both Sweeteners and Starches and Bioproducts. Sweeteners and Starches sales increased due to higher average selling prices and sales volumes. Sales volumes and prices have increased primarily due to solid demand for sweetener and starch products. Bioproducts sales increased primarily due to increased sales volumes and average selling prices of ethanol, partially offset by lower average selling prices of lysine. The increases in ethanol sales volumes and sales prices were principally due to increased demand from gasoline refiners as refiners used ethanol to replace MTBE as a gasoline additive and to increased gasoline prices. Agricultural Services sales increased 2% to $15.4 billion primarily due to increased commodity prices in North America and, to a lesser extent, increased barge freight rates as the gulf coast hurricanes reduced barge capacities and created strong demand for North American river transportation. These increases were partially offset by decreased commodity sales volumes in North America. The decreased sales volumes were primarily due to disruptions in North American grain origination and export activities caused by the hurricanes in the gulf coast region. Other sales decreased 3% to $4.4 billion primarily due to decreased average selling prices of cocoa products and lower sales volumes of formula feed products. These decreases were partially offset by increased average selling prices of wheat flour products due to higher commodity prices. Cost of products sold increased $118 million to $33.6 billion due primarily to higher average prices of agricultural commodities and increased manufacturing costs, partially offset by currency exchange rate decreases of $389 million. Manufacturing costs increased $399 million primarily due to increased energy costs, an $86 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets, and increased employee related costs. Selling, general, and administrative expenses increased $112 million to $1.2 billion principally due to increased employee related costs, including a $31 million charge related to the adoption of SFAS 123(R), $20 million of severance costs associated with the closure of a citric acid plant, and increased provisions for doubtful accounts. Other income decreased $84 million due primarily to a $73 million decrease in realized securities gains, a $55 million decrease in equity in earnings of affiliates, and a $39 million increase in interest expense, partially offset by a $69 million increase in investment income. The decrease in realized securities gains is primarily due to the $114 million realized securities gain in 2005 from the sale of Tate & Lyle PLC shares, partially offset by $40 million of realized securities gains during 2006. The decrease in equity in earnings of affiliates is primarily due to the CIP Gain in 2005 and lower valuations of the Companys private equity fund investments in 2006, partially offset by improved earnings of the Companys Asian oilseed crushing ventures. Interest expense increased primarily due to higher average borrowing levels and interest rates. Investment income increased primarily due to the reversal of $19 million of Brazilian transactional taxes previously assessed on investment income upon positive resolution in the Brazilian Supreme Court, higher levels of invested funds, and higher interest rates. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Operating profit by segment is as follows: 2006 2005 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing $ 599 $ 345 $ 254 Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 431 271 160 Bioproducts 446 259 187 Total Corn Processing 877 530 347 Agricultural Services 275 262 13 Other Food, Feed, and Industrial 159 263 (104 ) Financial 151 151 Total Other 310 414 (104 ) Total Segment Operating Profit 2,061 1,551 510 Corporate (206 ) (35 ) (171 ) Earnings Before Income Taxes $ 1,855 $ 1,516 $ 339 Oilseeds Processing operating profits increased $254 million to $599 million primarily due to improved market conditions in all geographic regions. European processing results improved principally due to strong demand for biodiesel and abundant rapeseed supplies in Europe. This strong demand for biodiesel in Europe increased European vegetable oil demand and resulted in improved oilseeds processing results. Abundant rapeseed supplies in Europe resulted in lower rapeseed price levels. North American processing results improved principally due to abundant oilseed supplies in the United States and good demand for soybean meal. Vegetable oil values were solid as the markets anticipate new demand from the developing United States biodiesel industry. South American operating results increased primarily due to improved origination activities and a $27 million credit for Brazilian transactional taxes. Operating results in Asia increased due to improved soy crushing margins and improved palm operations. Operating profits include a $14 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets and a $6 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47. Operating profits for 2005 include a charge of $13 million for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Corn Processing operating profits increased $347 million to $877 million primarily due to higher average selling prices, increased sales volumes, and lower net corn costs, partially offset by increased energy costs. Sweeteners and Starches operating profits increased $160 million due primarily to decreased net corn costs and higher average sales prices and sales volumes. Sales volumes and prices have increased primarily due to good demand for sweetener and starch products. These increases were partially offset by increased energy costs. Sweeteners and Starches operating profits include a $5 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47. Bioproducts operating profits increased $187 million primarily due to higher ethanol sales volumes and average selling prices and decreased net corn costs, partially offset by increased energy costs and lower lysine average selling prices. The increases in ethanol sales volumes and average sales prices were principally due to increased demand from gasoline refiners as refiners used ethanol to replace MTBE as a gasoline additive and from increased gasoline prices. Bioproducts operating profits include a $6 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets, a $2 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47, and $6 million of costs related to the closure of a citric acid plant. Bioproducts operating profits for 2005 include a $16 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Agricultural Services operating profits increased $13 million to $275 million as improved results from transportation operations were partially offset by a decline in global grain merchandising and North American origination operating results. North American river transportation operating results increased primarily due to increased barge freight rates created by strong demand for barge capacity. This increase was partially offset by increased fuel costs. The gulf coast hurricanes negatively impacted North American origination and export activities during the first half of 2006. Other operating profits decreased $104 million to $310 million. Other Food, Feed, and Industrial operating results decreased $104 million due primarily to a $51 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets, a $2 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47, and a $9 million charge representing the Companys share of a charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets reported by an unconsolidated affiliate of the Company. In addition, cocoa processing, natural health and nutrition, and formula feed operating results declined from prior year levels. Cocoa processing operating results declined primarily due to increased industry capacity which caused downward pressure on cocoa finished product prices. Formula feed operating results declined due to costs associated with exiting the European animal feed business. Other Food, Feed, and Industrial operating profits include a $17 million gain from the sale of long lived assets. Other Food, Feed, and Industrial operating results for 2005 include a $13 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Other Financial operating profits are comparable to prior year levels as improvements in the Companys captive insurance operations and futures commission merchant business offset lower valuations of the Companys private equity fund investments. Corporate decreased $171 million due primarily to a $102 million decrease in income from the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations, the $114 million realized securities gain in 2005 from the sale of Tate & Lyle PLC shares, the CIP Gain in 2005, and a $22 million charge in 2006 upon the adoption of SFAS 123(R), partially offset by the aforementioned $19 million reversal of Brazilian transactional taxes and a $97 million reduction in unallocated interest expense. The reduction in unallocated interest expense is due principally to higher levels of invested funds and higher interest rates. Income taxes increased due principally to higher pretax earnings. This increase was partially offset by a $36 million reduction in income tax expense related to the recognition of federal and state income tax credits and adjustments resulting from the reconciliation of filed tax returns to the previously estimated tax provision. The Companys effective tax rate for 2006 was 29.3% as compared to 31.1% for 2005. Excluding the effect of the $36 million tax credit, the Companys effective tax rate was 31.2% for 2006 and, after excluding the effect of the CIP Gain, was 32.1% for 2005. No tax was provided on the CIP Gain in 2005, as CIP is a corporate joint venture of the Company and the proceeds from the sale are permanently reinvested. Excluding the effect of the $36 million tax credit in 2006 and the CIP Gain in 2005, the decrease in the Companys effective tax rate is primarily due to changes in the geographic mix of pretax earnings. Liquidity and Capital Resources The Companys objective is to have sufficient liquidity, balance sheet strength, and financial flexibility to fund the operating and capital requirements of a capital intensive agricultural based commodity business. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) At June 30, 2007, the Company continued to show substantial liquidity with working capital of $7.3 billion and a current ratio, defined as current assets divided by current liabilities, of 1.9 to 1. Included in working capital is $875 million of cash, cash equivalents, and short term marketable securities as well as $4.4 billion of readily marketable commodity inventories. Cash generated from operating activities totaled $303 million for the year compared to $1.4 billion last year. This decrease was primarily due to an increase in working capital requirements principally related to increased prices and quantities of agricultural commodity inventories and increased receivables, partially offset by increased cash earnings. Despite increased investment in property, plant, and equipment, cash used in investing activities decreased $714 million for the year to $355 million due primarily to increased sales of marketable securities and proceeds from sales of businesses including the sale of the Companys equity interests in Tyson Foods, Inc., Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc. and Agricore United. Cash used in financing activities was $398 million compared to cash generated by financing activities of $284 million last year. Net long term borrowings increased primarily as a result of the issuance of $1.2 billion of convertible senior notes in February 2007 (described in detail below), compared to $600 million of 30 year debentures issued in September 2005. This increase was partially offset by $283 million of increased payments on long term debt principally related to the Company retiring $400 million of debentures in 2007. Capital resources were strengthened as shown by the increase in the Companys net worth from $9.8 billion to $11.3 billion. The Companys ratio of long term debt to total capital (the sum of the Companys long term debt and shareholders equity) was 30% at June 30, 2007, and 29% at June 30, 2006. This ratio is a measure of the Companys long term liquidity and is an indicator of financial flexibility. The Company currently has $3.9 billion of commercial paper and commercial bank lines available to meet seasonal cash requirements of which $2.6 billion are committed and $1.3 billion are uncommitted. At June 30, 2007, the Company had $468 million of short term debt outstanding. Standard & Poors, Moodys, and Fitch rate the Companys commercial paper as A 1, P 1, and F1, respectively, and rate the Companys long term debt as A, A2, and A+, respectively. In addition to the cash flow generated from operations, the Company has access to equity and debt capital through numerous alternatives from public and private sources in domestic and international markets. In February 2007, the Company issued $1.2 billion principal amount of convertible senior notes due in 2014 (the Notes) in a private placement. The Notes were issued at par and bear interest at a rate of 0.875% per year, payable semiannually. The Notes are convertible based on an initial conversion rate of 22.8343 shares per $1,000 principal amount of Notes (which is equal to an initial conversion price of approximately $43.79 per share). The Notes may be converted, subject to adjustment, only under the following circumstances: 1) during any calendar quarter beginning after March 31, 2007, if the closing price of the Companys common stock for at least 20 trading days in the 30 consecutive trading days ending on the last trading day of the immediately preceding quarter is more than 140% of the applicable conversion price per share, which is $1,000 divided by the then applicable conversion rate, 2) during the five consecutive business day period immediately after any five consecutive trading day period (the note measurement period) in which the average of the trading price per $1,000 principal amount of Notes was equal to or less than 98% of the average of the product of the closing price of the Companys common stock and the conversion rate at each date during the note measurement period, 3) if the Company makes specified distributions to its common stockholders or specified corporate transactions occur, or 4) at any time on or after January 15, 2014, through the business day preceding the maturity date. Upon conversion, a holder would receive an amount in cash equal to the lesser of 1) $1,000 and 2) the conversion value, as defined. If the conversion value exceeds $1,000, the Company will deliver, at the Companys election, cash or common stock or a combination of cash and common stock for the conversion value in excess of $1,000. If the Notes are converted in connection with a change in control, as defined, the Company may be required to provide a make whole premium in the form of an increase in the conversion rate, subject to a stated maximum amount. In addition, in the event of a change in control, the holders may require the Company to purchase all or a portion of their Notes at a purchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Concurrent with the issuance of the Notes, the Company purchased call options in private transactions at a cost of $299 million. The purchased call options allow the Company to receive shares of its common stock and or cash from the counterparties equal to the amounts of common stock and or cash related to the excess of the current market price of the Companys common stock over the exercise price of the purchased call options. In addition, the Company sold warrants in private transactions to acquire, subject to customary anti dilution adjustments, 26.3 million shares of its common stock at an exercise price of $62.56 per share and received proceeds of $170 million. If the average price of the Companys common stock during a defined period ending on or about the respective settlement dates exceeds the exercise price of the warrants, the warrants will be settled, at the Companys option, in cash or shares of common stock. The purchased call options and warrants are intended to reduce the potential dilution upon future conversions of the Notes by effectively increasing the initial conversion price to $62.56 per share. Upon closing of the sale of the Notes, $370 million of the net proceeds from the Note issuance and the proceeds from the warrant transactions were used to repurchase 10.3 million shares of the Companys common stock under the Companys stock repurchase program. As of June 30, 2007, none of the conditions permitting conversion of the Notes had been satisfied. In addition, as of June 30, 2007, the market price of the Companys common stock was not greater than the exercise price of the purchased call options or warrants. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements In the normal course of business, the Company enters into contracts and commitments which obligate the Company to make payments in the future. The following table sets forth the Companys significant future obligations by time period. Purchases include commodity based contracts entered into in the normal course of business, which are further described in Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, energy related purchase contracts entered into in the normal course of business, and other purchase obligations related to the Companys normal business activities. Where applicable, information included in the Companys consolidated financial statements and notes is cross referenced in this table. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Payments Due by Period Contractual Note Less than 2 3 4 5 Over Obligations Reference Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years (In millions) Purchases Inventories $ 11,113 $ 10,312 $ 535 $ 159 $ 107 Energy 429 269 152 7 1 Other 217 67 94 43 13 Total purchases 11,759 10,648 781 209 121 Short term debt Note 7 468 468 Long term debt Note 7 4,897 65 92 425 4,315 Estimated interest payments 5,752 290 509 474 4,479 Operating leases Note 12 900 318 241 132 209 Estimated pension and other postretirement plan contributions Note 13 1,045 79 173 195 598 Total $ 24,821 $ 11,868 $ 1,796 $ 1,435 $ 9,722 At June 30, 2007, the Company estimates it will spend approximately $3.0 billion over the next four years to complete approved capital projects and acquisitions. The Company is a limited partner in various private equity funds which invest primarily in emerging markets. At June 30, 2007, the Companys carrying value of these limited partnership investments was $165 million. The Company has future capital commitments related to these partnerships of $138 million and expects the majority of these additional capital commitments, if called for, to be funded by cash flows generated by the partnerships. The Company also has outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds of $339 million at June 30, 2007. In addition, the Company has entered into agreements, primarily debt guarantee agreements related to equity method investees, which could obligate the Company to make future payments. The Companys liability under these agreements arises only if the primary entity fails to perform its contractual obligation. The Company has collateral for a portion of these contingent obligations. At June 30, 2007, these contingent obligations totaled approximately $98 million. Amounts outstanding for the primary entity under these contingent obligations were $51 million at June 30, 2007. Critical Accounting Policies The process of preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the carrying values of the Companys assets and liabilities as well as the recognition of revenues and expenses. These estimates and judgments are based on the Companys historical experience and managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Certain of the Companys accounting policies are considered critical, as these policies are important to the depiction of the Companys financial statements and require significant or complex judgment by management. Management has discussed with the Companys Audit Committee the development, selection, disclosure, and application of these critical accounting policies. Following are the accounting policies management considers critical to the Companys financial statements. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Inventories and Derivatives Certain of the Companys merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, forward fixed price purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and options contracts are valued at estimated market values. These merchandisable agricultural commodities are freely traded, have quoted market prices, and may be sold without significant additional processing. Management estimates market value based on exchange quoted prices, adjusted for differences in local markets. Changes in the market values of these inventories and contracts are recognized in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. If management used different methods or factors to estimate market value, amounts reported as inventories and cost of products sold could differ. Additionally, if market conditions change subsequent to year end, amounts reported in future periods as inventories and cost of products sold could differ. The Company, from time to time, uses derivative contracts to fix the purchase price of anticipated volumes of commodities to be purchased and processed in a future month, to fix the purchase price of the Companys anticipated natural gas requirements for certain production facilities, and to fix the sales price of anticipated volumes of ethanol. These derivative contracts are designated as cash flow hedges. The change in the market value of such derivative contracts has historically been, and is expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. If it is determined that the derivative instruments used are no longer effective at offsetting changes in the price of the hedged item, then the changes in the market value of these exchange traded futures contracts would be recorded in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. Employee Benefit Plans The Company provides substantially all domestic employees and employees at certain international subsidiaries with pension benefits. The Company also provides substantially all domestic salaried employees with postretirement health care and life insurance benefits. In order to measure the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans, management makes several estimates and assumptions, including interest rates used to discount certain liabilities, rates of return on assets set aside to fund these plans, rates of compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and anticipated future health care costs. These estimates and assumptions are based on the Companys historical experience combined with managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Management also uses third party specialists to assist in measuring the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans. If management used different estimates and assumptions regarding these plans, the funded status of the plans could vary significantly, and the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Income Taxes The Company frequently faces challenges from domestic and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company records reserves for probable exposures. Deferred tax assets represent items to be used as tax deductions or credits in future tax returns, and the related tax benefit has already been recognized in the Companys income statement. Realization of certain deferred tax assets reflects the Companys tax planning strategies. Valuation allowances related to these deferred tax assets have been established to the extent the realization of the tax benefit is not probable. Based on managements evaluation of the Companys tax position, it is believed the amounts related to these tax exposures are appropriately accrued. To the extent the Company were to favorably resolve matters for which accruals have been established or be required to pay amounts in excess of the aforementioned reserves, the Companys effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be impacted. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and affiliated corporate joint ventures accounted for on the equity method are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by unpredictable factors such as weather, plantings, government (domestic and foreign) farm programs and policies, changes in population growth, changes in standards of living, and production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned unpredictable factors, therefore, may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and profitability of the Companys fixed asset base in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its factories. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment and technology related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. Assets are abandoned after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of this fixed asset base, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Valuation of Marketable Securities and Investments in Affiliates The Company classifies the majority of its marketable securities as available for sale and carries these securities at fair value. Investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings. For publicly traded securities, the fair value of the Companys investments is readily available based on quoted market prices. For non publicly traded securities, managements assessment of fair value is based on valuation methodologies including discounted cash flows and estimates of sales proceeds. In the event of a decline in fair value of an investment below carrying value, management may be required to determine if the decline in fair value is other than temporary. In evaluating the nature of a decline in the fair value of an investment, management considers the market conditions, trends of earnings, discounted cash flows, trading volumes, and other key measures of the investment as well as the Companys ability and intent to hold the investment. When such a decline in value is deemed to be other than temporary, an impairment loss is recognized in the current period operating results to the extent of the decline. See Notes 3 and 5 to the Companys consolidated financial statements for information regarding the Companys marketable securities and investments in affiliates. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these marketable securities, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) The Company is a limited partner in various private equity funds which invest primarily in emerging markets. The Company accounts for these limited partnerships using the equity method of accounting. Therefore, the Company is recording in the consolidated statement of earnings its proportional share of the limited partnerships net income or loss. The limited partnerships value their investments at fair value. Thus, unrealized gains and losses related to the change in fair value of these investments are recorded in the limited partnerships statements of earnings. The valuation of these investments, as determined by the general partner, can be subjective, and the values may vary significantly. Some of the factors causing the subjectivity and volatility of these valuations include the illiquidity and minority positions of these investments, currency exchange rate fluctuations, less regulated securities exchanges, and the inherent business risks and limitations present in the emerging market countries. The Company records the results of these limited partnerships based on the information provided to the Company by the general partner. Due to the subjectivity and volatility in valuing these investments, the fair value of these investments, and thus the Companys results, could vary significantly over future periods. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in commodities futures prices, marketable equity security prices, market prices of limited partnerships investments, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and price of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to unpredictable factors such as weather, plantings, government (domestic and foreign) farm programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. To reduce price risk caused by market fluctuations, the Company generally follows a policy of using exchange traded futures and options contracts to minimize its net position of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories and forward cash purchase and sales contracts. The Company will also use exchange traded futures and options contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the volatility of the relationship between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contracts defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company from time to time enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) A sensitivity analysis has been prepared to estimate the Companys exposure to market risk of its daily net commodity position. The Companys daily net commodity position consists of inventories, related purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures contracts, including those contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements. The fair value of such daily net commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing each net position at quoted futures prices. Market risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in such prices. Actual results may differ. 2007 2006 Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest long position $ 703 $ 70 $ 510 $ 51 Highest short position 565 57 574 57 Average position long (short) 180 18 (203 ) (20 ) The change in fair value of the average position for 2007 compared to 2006 was principally a result of changes in the daily net commodity position and commodity prices. Marketable Equity Securities Marketable equity securities, which are recorded at fair value, have exposure to price risk. The fair value of marketable equity securities is based on quoted market prices. Risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted market prices. Actual results may differ. 2007 2006 (In millions) Fair value $ 227 $ 640 Market risk 23 64 The decrease in fair value for 2007 compared to 2006 resulted primarily from disposals of securities partially offset by increases in fair market value of certain securities. Limited Partnerships The Company is a limited partner in various private equity funds which invest primarily in emerging markets. The Company accounts for these limited partnerships using the equity method of accounting. Therefore, the Company is recording in the consolidated statement of earnings its proportional share of the limited partnerships net income or loss. The limited partnerships value their investments at fair value. Risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in market prices of the limited partnerships investments. Actual results may differ. 2007 2006 (In millions) Fair value of partnerships investments $ 188 $ 210 Market risk 19 21 The decrease in fair value for 2007 compared to 2006 resulted primarily from returns of capital. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) Currencies In order to reduce the risk of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, except for amounts permanently invested as described below, the Company follows a policy of entering into currency exchange forward contracts to mitigate its foreign currency risk related to transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currencies applicable to each of its various entities. The instruments used are readily marketable exchange traded futures contracts and forward contracts with banks. The changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $5.4 billion at June 30, 2007, and $4.5 billion at June 30, 2006. This increase is due to an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and appreciation of foreign currency exchange rates. The potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $543 million and $454 million for 2007 and 2006, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical .5 % decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2007 2006 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 4,927 $ 4,387 Excess of fair value over carrying value 110 257 Market risk 204 218 The increase in fair value of long term debt in 2007 resulted principally from the Companys issuance of $1.2 billion convertible senior notes partially offset by repayment of $400 million of debentures and other principal payments of long term debt. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Other operating profits increased $99 million to $409 million. Other Food, Feed, and Industrial operating profits increased $55 million and include a $53 million gain on the sale of the Companys Arkady food ingredient business and a $15 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Other Food, Feed, and Industrial operating results for 2006 include a $51 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets, a $2 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47, a $9 million charge representing the Companys share of a charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets reported by an unconsolidated affiliate of the Company, a $17 million gain from the sale of long lived assets, and a $16 million charge related to exiting the European animal feed business. Excluding the effect of these 2007 and 2006 items, Other Food, Feed, and Industrial operating profits declined $44 million due primarily to cocoa processing operating results declining from prior year levels and costs related to the start up of the Companys natural plastics production operations. Cocoa processing operating results declined primarily due to increased industry production capacity which caused downward pressure on cocoa processing margins. These increases were partially offset by improved operating results of the Companys wheat flour processing and protein specialty operations. Other Financial operating profits increased $44 million principally due to increased valuations of the Companys private equity fund investments and higher operating results of the Companys futures commission merchant business, partially offset by lower operating results of the Companys captive insurance operations. The results of the Companys captive insurance operations for 2007 include a $12 million charge related to a Hurricane Katrina trade disruption insurance settlement. Corporate expense decreased $199 million to $7 million principally due to a $345 million increase in realized securities gains principally resulting from sales of the Companys equity securities of Tyson Foods, Inc. and Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc. and a $103 million reduction in unallocated interest expense due principally to higher levels of invested funds and higher interest rates. These decreases were partially offset by a $206 million charge, compared to a $12 million credit in the prior year, related to the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations and a $46 million charge related to the repurchase of $400 million of the Companys outstanding debentures. Income taxes increased due principally to higher pretax earnings and the absence of last years $36 million income tax credit related to the recognition of federal and state income tax credits and adjustments resulting from the reconciliation of filed tax returns to the previously estimated tax provision. The Companys effective tax rate during 2007 was 31.5% and, after excluding the effect of last years $36 million tax credit, was 31.2% for the prior year. The increase in the Companys effective tax rate is primarily due to changes in the geographic mix of pretax earnings. 2006 Compared to 2005 As an agricultural based commodity business, the Company is subject to a variety of market factors which affect the Companys operating results. Strong biodiesel demand in Europe continued to create increased vegetable oil demand and has positively impacted rapeseed crushing margins in Europe. Abundant oilseed supplies and strong protein meal demand have positively impacted oilseed crushing margins in North America. A good corn supply resulting in lower price levels for corn favorably impacted corn processing operations, while ethanol experienced good demand due to gasoline refiners replacing MTBE with ethanol. Solid demand for sweetener and starch products has also improved corn processing results. During the first half of 2006, hurricanes in the gulf coast region of the United States disrupted North American grain origination and agricultural commodity export operations, negatively impacting export sales volumes. The gulf coast hurricanes also disrupted river transportation, resulting in increased barge demand and barge freight rates. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Net earnings increased principally due to improved operating results of Oilseeds Processing and Corn Processing. In addition, net earnings also increased due to a $36 million reduction in income tax expense related to the recognition of federal and state income tax credits and adjustments resulting from the reconciliation of filed tax returns to the previously estimated tax provision. Earnings before income taxes for 2006 include charges of $31 million resulting from the Companys adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) Number 123(R), Share Based Payment, $15 million resulting from the Companys adoption of FIN 47, $71 million related to abandonment and write down of long lived assets, $9 million representing the Companys share of a charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets reported by an unconsolidated affiliate of the Company, and $22 million associated with the closure of a citric acid plant and exiting the European animal feed business. Earnings before income taxes for 2006 also include credits of $12 million from the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations, $17 million from the sale of long lived assets, $46 million related to Brazilian transactional tax credits, and $40 million related to realized securities gains. Earnings before income taxes for 2005 included credits of $114 million from the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations, $114 million of realized securities gain from the sale of Tate & Lyle PLC shares, and $45 million representing the Companys equity share of the gain reported by the Companys unconsolidated affiliate, Compagnie Industrielle et Financiere des Produits Amylaces SA (CIP), upon the sale of its interest in Tate & Lyle PLC (the CIP Gain). Earnings before income taxes for 2005 also include a $42 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Analysis of Statements of Earnings Net sales and other operating income increased 2% to $36.6 billion due primarily to higher average selling prices of agricultural commodities and increased sales volumes and selling prices of corn processing products, partially offset by decreased average selling prices of cocoa products and currency exchange rate decreases of $415 million. Net sales and other operating income by segment are as follows: 2006 2005 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing $ 11,867 $ 11,803 $ 64 Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 2,133 1,905 228 Bioproducts 2,727 2,459 268 Total Corn Processing 4,860 4,364 496 Agricultural Services 15,440 15,198 242 Other Food, Feed, and Industrial 4,354 4,506 (152 ) Financial 75 72 3 Total Other 4,429 4,578 (149 ) Total $ 36,596 $ 35,943 653 Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Oilseeds Processing sales increased $64 million to $11.9 billion principally due to higher average selling prices of South American oilseed exports and of vegetable oil. These increases were partially offset by lower average selling prices of protein meal. Corn Processing sales increased 11% to $4.9 billion due to sales increases in both Sweeteners and Starches and Bioproducts. Sweeteners and Starches sales increased due to higher average selling prices and sales volumes. Sales volumes and prices have increased primarily due to solid demand for sweetener and starch products. Bioproducts sales increased primarily due to increased sales volumes and average selling prices of ethanol, partially offset by lower average selling prices of lysine. The increases in ethanol sales volumes and sales prices were principally due to increased demand from gasoline refiners as refiners used ethanol to replace MTBE as a gasoline additive and to increased gasoline prices. Agricultural Services sales increased 2% to $15.4 billion primarily due to increased commodity prices in North America and, to a lesser extent, increased barge freight rates as the gulf coast hurricanes reduced barge capacities and created strong demand for North American river transportation. These increases were partially offset by decreased commodity sales volumes in North America. The decreased sales volumes were primarily due to disruptions in North American grain origination and export activities caused by the hurricanes in the gulf coast region. Other sales decreased 3% to $4.4 billion primarily due to decreased average selling prices of cocoa products and lower sales volumes of formula feed products. These decreases were partially offset by increased average selling prices of wheat flour products due to higher commodity prices. Cost of products sold increased $118 million to $33.6 billion due primarily to higher average prices of agricultural commodities and increased manufacturing costs, partially offset by currency exchange rate decreases of $389 million. Manufacturing costs increased $399 million primarily due to increased energy costs, an $86 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets, and increased employee related costs. Selling, general, and administrative expenses increased $112 million to $1.2 billion principally due to increased employee related costs, including a $31 million charge related to the adoption of SFAS 123(R), $20 million of severance costs associated with the closure of a citric acid plant, and increased provisions for doubtful accounts. Other income decreased $84 million due primarily to a $73 million decrease in realized securities gains, a $55 million decrease in equity in earnings of affiliates, and a $39 million increase in interest expense, partially offset by a $69 million increase in investment income. The decrease in realized securities gains is primarily due to the $114 million realized securities gain in 2005 from the sale of Tate & Lyle PLC shares, partially offset by $40 million of realized securities gains during 2006. The decrease in equity in earnings of affiliates is primarily due to the CIP Gain in 2005 and lower valuations of the Companys private equity fund investments in 2006, partially offset by improved earnings of the Companys Asian oilseed crushing ventures. Interest expense increased primarily due to higher average borrowing levels and interest rates. Investment income increased primarily due to the reversal of $19 million of Brazilian transactional taxes previously assessed on investment income upon positive resolution in the Brazilian Supreme Court, higher levels of invested funds, and higher interest rates. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Operating profit by segment is as follows: 2006 2005 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing $ 599 $ 345 $ 254 Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 431 271 160 Bioproducts 446 259 187 Total Corn Processing 877 530 347 Agricultural Services 275 262 13 Other Food, Feed, and Industrial 159 263 (104 ) Financial 151 151 Total Other 310 414 (104 ) Total Segment Operating Profit 2,061 1,551 510 Corporate (206 ) (35 ) (171 ) Earnings Before Income Taxes $ 1,855 $ 1,516 $ 339 Oilseeds Processing operating profits increased $254 million to $599 million primarily due to improved market conditions in all geographic regions. European processing results improved principally due to strong demand for biodiesel and abundant rapeseed supplies in Europe. This strong demand for biodiesel in Europe increased European vegetable oil demand and resulted in improved oilseeds processing results. Abundant rapeseed supplies in Europe resulted in lower rapeseed price levels. North American processing results improved principally due to abundant oilseed supplies in the United States and good demand for soybean meal. Vegetable oil values were solid as the markets anticipate new demand from the developing United States biodiesel industry. South American operating results increased primarily due to improved origination activities and a $27 million credit for Brazilian transactional taxes. Operating results in Asia increased due to improved soy crushing margins and improved palm operations. Operating profits include a $14 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets and a $6 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47. Operating profits for 2005 include a charge of $13 million for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Corn Processing operating profits increased $347 million to $877 million primarily due to higher average selling prices, increased sales volumes, and lower net corn costs, partially offset by increased energy costs. Sweeteners and Starches operating profits increased $160 million due primarily to decreased net corn costs and higher average sales prices and sales volumes. Sales volumes and prices have increased primarily due to good demand for sweetener and starch products. These increases were partially offset by increased energy costs. Sweeteners and Starches operating profits include a $5 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47. Bioproducts operating profits increased $187 million primarily due to higher ethanol sales volumes and average selling prices and decreased net corn costs, partially offset by increased energy costs and lower lysine average selling prices. The increases in ethanol sales volumes and average sales prices were principally due to increased demand from gasoline refiners as refiners used ethanol to replace MTBE as a gasoline additive and from increased gasoline prices. Bioproducts operating profits include a $6 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets, a $2 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47, and $6 million of costs related to the closure of a citric acid plant. Bioproducts operating profits for 2005 include a $16 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Agricultural Services operating profits increased $13 million to $275 million as improved results from transportation operations were partially offset by a decline in global grain merchandising and North American origination operating results. North American river transportation operating results increased primarily due to increased barge freight rates created by strong demand for barge capacity. This increase was partially offset by increased fuel costs. The gulf coast hurricanes negatively impacted North American origination and export activities during the first half of 2006. Other operating profits decreased $104 million to $310 million. Other Food, Feed, and Industrial operating results decreased $104 million due primarily to a $51 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets, a $2 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47, and a $9 million charge representing the Companys share of a charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets reported by an unconsolidated affiliate of the Company. In addition, cocoa processing, natural health and nutrition, and formula feed operating results declined from prior year levels. Cocoa processing operating results declined primarily due to increased industry capacity which caused downward pressure on cocoa finished product prices. Formula feed operating results declined due to costs associated with exiting the European animal feed business. Other Food, Feed, and Industrial operating profits include a $17 million gain from the sale of long lived assets. Other Food, Feed, and Industrial operating results for 2005 include a $13 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Other Financial operating profits are comparable to prior year levels as improvements in the Companys captive insurance operations and futures commission merchant business offset lower valuations of the Companys private equity fund investments. Corporate decreased $171 million due primarily to a $102 million decrease in income from the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations, the $114 million realized securities gain in 2005 from the sale of Tate & Lyle PLC shares, the CIP Gain in 2005, and a $22 million charge in 2006 upon the adoption of SFAS 123(R), partially offset by the aforementioned $19 million reversal of Brazilian transactional taxes and a $97 million reduction in unallocated interest expense. The reduction in unallocated interest expense is due principally to higher levels of invested funds and higher interest rates. Income taxes increased due principally to higher pretax earnings. This increase was partially offset by a $36 million reduction in income tax expense related to the recognition of federal and state income tax credits and adjustments resulting from the reconciliation of filed tax returns to the previously estimated tax provision. The Companys effective tax rate for 2006 was 29.3% as compared to 31.1% for 2005. Excluding the effect of the $36 million tax credit, the Companys effective tax rate was 31.2% for 2006 and, after excluding the effect of the CIP Gain, was 32.1% for 2005. No tax was provided on the CIP Gain in 2005, as CIP is a corporate joint venture of the Company and the proceeds from the sale are permanently reinvested. Excluding the effect of the $36 million tax credit in 2006 and the CIP Gain in 2005, the decrease in the Companys effective tax rate is primarily due to changes in the geographic mix of pretax earnings. Liquidity and Capital Resources The Companys objective is to have sufficient liquidity, balance sheet strength, and financial flexibility to fund the operating and capital requirements of a capital intensive agricultural based commodity business. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) At June 30, 2007, the Company continued to show substantial liquidity with working capital of $7.3 billion and a current ratio, defined as current assets divided by current liabilities, of 1.9 to 1. Included in working capital is $875 million of cash, cash equivalents, and short term marketable securities as well as $4.4 billion of readily marketable commodity inventories. Cash generated from operating activities totaled $303 million for the year compared to $1.4 billion last year. This decrease was primarily due to an increase in working capital requirements principally related to increased prices and quantities of agricultural commodity inventories and increased receivables, partially offset by increased cash earnings. Despite increased investment in property, plant, and equipment, cash used in investing activities decreased $714 million for the year to $355 million due primarily to increased sales of marketable securities and proceeds from sales of businesses including the sale of the Companys equity interests in Tyson Foods, Inc., Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc. and Agricore United. Cash used in financing activities was $398 million compared to cash generated by financing activities of $284 million last year. Net long term borrowings increased primarily as a result of the issuance of $1.2 billion of convertible senior notes in February 2007 (described in detail below), compared to $600 million of 30 year debentures issued in September 2005. This increase was partially offset by $283 million of increased payments on long term debt principally related to the Company retiring $400 million of debentures in 2007. Capital resources were strengthened as shown by the increase in the Companys net worth from $9.8 billion to $11.3 billion. The Companys ratio of long term debt to total capital (the sum of the Companys long term debt and shareholders equity) was 30% at June 30, 2007, and 29% at June 30, 2006. This ratio is a measure of the Companys long term liquidity and is an indicator of financial flexibility. The Company currently has $3.9 billion of commercial paper and commercial bank lines available to meet seasonal cash requirements of which $2.6 billion are committed and $1.3 billion are uncommitted. At June 30, 2007, the Company had $468 million of short term debt outstanding. Standard & Poors, Moodys, and Fitch rate the Companys commercial paper as A 1, P 1, and F1, respectively, and rate the Companys long term debt as A, A2, and A+, respectively. In addition to the cash flow generated from operations, the Company has access to equity and debt capital through numerous alternatives from public and private sources in domestic and international markets. In February 2007, the Company issued $1.2 billion principal amount of convertible senior notes due in 2014 (the Notes) in a private placement. The Notes were issued at par and bear interest at a rate of 0.875% per year, payable semiannually. The Notes are convertible based on an initial conversion rate of 22.8343 shares per $1,000 principal amount of Notes (which is equal to an initial conversion price of approximately $43.79 per share). The Notes may be converted, subject to adjustment, only under the following circumstances: 1) during any calendar quarter beginning after March 31, 2007, if the closing price of the Companys common stock for at least 20 trading days in the 30 consecutive trading days ending on the last trading day of the immediately preceding quarter is more than 140% of the applicable conversion price per share, which is $1,000 divided by the then applicable conversion rate, 2) during the five consecutive business day period immediately after any five consecutive trading day period (the note measurement period) in which the average of the trading price per $1,000 principal amount of Notes was equal to or less than 98% of the average of the product of the closing price of the Companys common stock and the conversion rate at each date during the note measurement period, 3) if the Company makes specified distributions to its common stockholders or specified corporate transactions occur, or 4) at any time on or after January 15, 2014, through the business day preceding the maturity date. Upon conversion, a holder would receive an amount in cash equal to the lesser of 1) $1,000 and 2) the conversion value, as defined. If the conversion value exceeds $1,000, the Company will deliver, at the Companys election, cash or common stock or a combination of cash and common stock for the conversion value in excess of $1,000. If the Notes are converted in connection with a change in control, as defined, the Company may be required to provide a make whole premium in the form of an increase in the conversion rate, subject to a stated maximum amount. In addition, in the event of a change in control, the holders may require the Company to purchase all or a portion of their Notes at a purchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Concurrent with the issuance of the Notes, the Company purchased call options in private transactions at a cost of $299 million. The purchased call options allow the Company to receive shares of its common stock and or cash from the counterparties equal to the amounts of common stock and or cash related to the excess of the current market price of the Companys common stock over the exercise price of the purchased call options. In addition, the Company sold warrants in private transactions to acquire, subject to customary anti dilution adjustments, 26.3 million shares of its common stock at an exercise price of $62.56 per share and received proceeds of $170 million. If the average price of the Companys common stock during a defined period ending on or about the respective settlement dates exceeds the exercise price of the warrants, the warrants will be settled, at the Companys option, in cash or shares of common stock. The purchased call options and warrants are intended to reduce the potential dilution upon future conversions of the Notes by effectively increasing the initial conversion price to $62.56 per share. Upon closing of the sale of the Notes, $370 million of the net proceeds from the Note issuance and the proceeds from the warrant transactions were used to repurchase 10.3 million shares of the Companys common stock under the Companys stock repurchase program. As of June 30, 2007, none of the conditions permitting conversion of the Notes had been satisfied. In addition, as of June 30, 2007, the market price of the Companys common stock was not greater than the exercise price of the purchased call options or warrants. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements In the normal course of business, the Company enters into contracts and commitments which obligate the Company to make payments in the future. The following table sets forth the Companys significant future obligations by time period. Purchases include commodity based contracts entered into in the normal course of business, which are further described in Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, energy related purchase contracts entered into in the normal course of business, and other purchase obligations related to the Companys normal business activities. Where applicable, information included in the Companys consolidated financial statements and notes is cross referenced in this table. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Payments Due by Period Contractual Note Less than 2 3 4 5 Over Obligations Reference Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years (In millions) Purchases Inventories $ 11,113 $ 10,312 $ 535 $ 159 $ 107 Energy 429 269 152 7 1 Other 217 67 94 43 13 Total purchases 11,759 10,648 781 209 121 Short term debt Note 7 468 468 Long term debt Note 7 4,897 65 92 425 4,315 Estimated interest payments 5,752 290 509 474 4,479 Operating leases Note 12 900 318 241 132 209 Estimated pension and other postretirement plan contributions Note 13 1,045 79 173 195 598 Total $ 24,821 $ 11,868 $ 1,796 $ 1,435 $ 9,722 At June 30, 2007, the Company estimates it will spend approximately $3.0 billion over the next four years to complete approved capital projects and acquisitions. The Company is a limited partner in various private equity funds which invest primarily in emerging markets. At June 30, 2007, the Companys carrying value of these limited partnership investments was $165 million. The Company has future capital commitments related to these partnerships of $138 million and expects the majority of these additional capital commitments, if called for, to be funded by cash flows generated by the partnerships. The Company also has outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds of $339 million at June 30, 2007. In addition, the Company has entered into agreements, primarily debt guarantee agreements related to equity method investees, which could obligate the Company to make future payments. The Companys liability under these agreements arises only if the primary entity fails to perform its contractual obligation. The Company has collateral for a portion of these contingent obligations. At June 30, 2007, these contingent obligations totaled approximately $98 million. Amounts outstanding for the primary entity under these contingent obligations were $51 million at June 30, 2007. Critical Accounting Policies The process of preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the carrying values of the Companys assets and liabilities as well as the recognition of revenues and expenses. These estimates and judgments are based on the Companys historical experience and managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Certain of the Companys accounting policies are considered critical, as these policies are important to the depiction of the Companys financial statements and require significant or complex judgment by management. Management has discussed with the Companys Audit Committee the development, selection, disclosure, and application of these critical accounting policies. Following are the accounting policies management considers critical to the Companys financial statements. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Inventories and Derivatives Certain of the Companys merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, forward fixed price purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and options contracts are valued at estimated market values. These merchandisable agricultural commodities are freely traded, have quoted market prices, and may be sold without significant additional processing. Management estimates market value based on exchange quoted prices, adjusted for differences in local markets. Changes in the market values of these inventories and contracts are recognized in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. If management used different methods or factors to estimate market value, amounts reported as inventories and cost of products sold could differ. Additionally, if market conditions change subsequent to year end, amounts reported in future periods as inventories and cost of products sold could differ. The Company, from time to time, uses derivative contracts to fix the purchase price of anticipated volumes of commodities to be purchased and processed in a future month, to fix the purchase price of the Companys anticipated natural gas requirements for certain production facilities, and to fix the sales price of anticipated volumes of ethanol. These derivative contracts are designated as cash flow hedges. The change in the market value of such derivative contracts has historically been, and is expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. If it is determined that the derivative instruments used are no longer effective at offsetting changes in the price of the hedged item, then the changes in the market value of these exchange traded futures contracts would be recorded in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. Employee Benefit Plans The Company provides substantially all domestic employees and employees at certain international subsidiaries with pension benefits. The Company also provides substantially all domestic salaried employees with postretirement health care and life insurance benefits. In order to measure the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans, management makes several estimates and assumptions, including interest rates used to discount certain liabilities, rates of return on assets set aside to fund these plans, rates of compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and anticipated future health care costs. These estimates and assumptions are based on the Companys historical experience combined with managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Management also uses third party specialists to assist in measuring the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans. If management used different estimates and assumptions regarding these plans, the funded status of the plans could vary significantly, and the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Income Taxes The Company frequently faces challenges from domestic and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company records reserves for probable exposures. Deferred tax assets represent items to be used as tax deductions or credits in future tax returns, and the related tax benefit has already been recognized in the Companys income statement. Realization of certain deferred tax assets reflects the Companys tax planning strategies. Valuation allowances related to these deferred tax assets have been established to the extent the realization of the tax benefit is not probable. Based on managements evaluation of the Companys tax position, it is believed the amounts related to these tax exposures are appropriately accrued. To the extent the Company were to favorably resolve matters for which accruals have been established or be required to pay amounts in excess of the aforementioned reserves, the Companys effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be impacted. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and affiliated corporate joint ventures accounted for on the equity method are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by unpredictable factors such as weather, plantings, government (domestic and foreign) farm programs and policies, changes in population growth, changes in standards of living, and production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned unpredictable factors, therefore, may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and profitability of the Companys fixed asset base in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its factories. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment and technology related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. Assets are abandoned after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of this fixed asset base, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Valuation of Marketable Securities and Investments in Affiliates The Company classifies the majority of its marketable securities as available for sale and carries these securities at fair value. Investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings. For publicly traded securities, the fair value of the Companys investments is readily available based on quoted market prices. For non publicly traded securities, managements assessment of fair value is based on valuation methodologies including discounted cash flows and estimates of sales proceeds. In the event of a decline in fair value of an investment below carrying value, management may be required to determine if the decline in fair value is other than temporary. In evaluating the nature of a decline in the fair value of an investment, management considers the market conditions, trends of earnings, discounted cash flows, trading volumes, and other key measures of the investment as well as the Companys ability and intent to hold the investment. When such a decline in value is deemed to be other than temporary, an impairment loss is recognized in the current period operating results to the extent of the decline. See Notes 3 and 5 to the Companys consolidated financial statements for information regarding the Companys marketable securities and investments in affiliates. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these marketable securities, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) The Company is a limited partner in various private equity funds which invest primarily in emerging markets. The Company accounts for these limited partnerships using the equity method of accounting. Therefore, the Company is recording in the consolidated statement of earnings its proportional share of the limited partnerships net income or loss. The limited partnerships value their investments at fair value. Thus, unrealized gains and losses related to the change in fair value of these investments are recorded in the limited partnerships statements of earnings. The valuation of these investments, as determined by the general partner, can be subjective, and the values may vary significantly. Some of the factors causing the subjectivity and volatility of these valuations include the illiquidity and minority positions of these investments, currency exchange rate fluctuations, less regulated securities exchanges, and the inherent business risks and limitations present in the emerging market countries. The Company records the results of these limited partnerships based on the information provided to the Company by the general partner. Due to the subjectivity and volatility in valuing these investments, the fair value of these investments, and thus the Companys results, could vary significantly over future periods. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in commodities futures prices, marketable equity security prices, market prices of limited partnerships investments, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and price of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to unpredictable factors such as weather, plantings, government (domestic and foreign) farm programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. To reduce price risk caused by market fluctuations, the Company generally follows a policy of using exchange traded futures and options contracts to minimize its net position of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories and forward cash purchase and sales contracts. The Company will also use exchange traded futures and options contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the volatility of the relationship between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contracts defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company from time to time enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) A sensitivity analysis has been prepared to estimate the Companys exposure to market risk of its daily net commodity position. The Companys daily net commodity position consists of inventories, related purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures contracts, including those contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements. The fair value of such daily net commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing each net position at quoted futures prices. Market risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in such prices. Actual results may differ. 2007 2006 Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest long position $ 703 $ 70 $ 510 $ 51 Highest short position 565 57 574 57 Average position long (short) 180 18 (203 ) (20 ) The change in fair value of the average position for 2007 compared to 2006 was principally a result of changes in the daily net commodity position and commodity prices. Marketable Equity Securities Marketable equity securities, which are recorded at fair value, have exposure to price risk. The fair value of marketable equity securities is based on quoted market prices. Risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted market prices. Actual results may differ. 2007 2006 (In millions) Fair value $ 227 $ 640 Market risk 23 64 The decrease in fair value for 2007 compared to 2006 resulted primarily from disposals of securities partially offset by increases in fair market value of certain securities. Limited Partnerships The Company is a limited partner in various private equity funds which invest primarily in emerging markets. The Company accounts for these limited partnerships using the equity method of accounting. Therefore, the Company is recording in the consolidated statement of earnings its proportional share of the limited partnerships net income or loss. The limited partnerships value their investments at fair value. Risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in market prices of the limited partnerships investments. Actual results may differ. 2007 2006 (In millions) Fair value of partnerships investments $ 188 $ 210 Market risk 19 21 The decrease in fair value for 2007 compared to 2006 resulted primarily from returns of capital. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) Currencies In order to reduce the risk of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, except for amounts permanently invested as described below, the Company follows a policy of entering into currency exchange forward contracts to mitigate its foreign currency risk related to transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currencies applicable to each of its various entities. The instruments used are readily marketable exchange traded futures contracts and forward contracts with banks. The changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $5.4 billion at June 30, 2007, and $4.5 billion at June 30, 2006. This increase is due to an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and appreciation of foreign currency exchange rates. The potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $543 million and $454 million for 2007 and 2006, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical .5 % decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2007 2006 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 4,927 $ 4,387 Excess of fair value over carrying value 110 257 Market risk 204 218 The increase in fair value of long term debt in 2007 resulted principally from the Companys issuance of $1.2 billion convertible senior notes partially offset by repayment of $400 million of debentures and other principal payments of long term debt. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Net earnings increased principally due to improved operating results of Oilseeds Processing and Corn Processing. In addition, net earnings also increased due to a $36 million reduction in income tax expense related to the recognition of federal and state income tax credits and adjustments resulting from the reconciliation of filed tax returns to the previously estimated tax provision. Earnings before income taxes for 2006 include charges of $31 million resulting from the Companys adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) Number 123(R), Share Based Payment, $15 million resulting from the Companys adoption of FIN 47, $71 million related to abandonment and write down of long lived assets, $9 million representing the Companys share of a charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets reported by an unconsolidated affiliate of the Company, and $22 million associated with the closure of a citric acid plant and exiting the European animal feed business. Earnings before income taxes for 2006 also include credits of $12 million from the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations, $17 million from the sale of long lived assets, $46 million related to Brazilian transactional tax credits, and $40 million related to realized securities gains. Earnings before income taxes for 2005 included credits of $114 million from the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations, $114 million of realized securities gain from the sale of Tate & Lyle PLC shares, and $45 million representing the Companys equity share of the gain reported by the Companys unconsolidated affiliate, Compagnie Industrielle et Financiere des Produits Amylaces SA (CIP), upon the sale of its interest in Tate & Lyle PLC (the CIP Gain). Earnings before income taxes for 2005 also include a $42 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Analysis of Statements of Earnings Net sales and other operating income increased 2% to $36.6 billion due primarily to higher average selling prices of agricultural commodities and increased sales volumes and selling prices of corn processing products, partially offset by decreased average selling prices of cocoa products and currency exchange rate decreases of $415 million. Net sales and other operating income by segment are as follows: 2006 2005 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing $ 11,867 $ 11,803 $ 64 Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 2,133 1,905 228 Bioproducts 2,727 2,459 268 Total Corn Processing 4,860 4,364 496 Agricultural Services 15,440 15,198 242 Other Food, Feed, and Industrial 4,354 4,506 (152 ) Financial 75 72 3 Total Other 4,429 4,578 (149 ) Total $ 36,596 $ 35,943 653 Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Oilseeds Processing sales increased $64 million to $11.9 billion principally due to higher average selling prices of South American oilseed exports and of vegetable oil. These increases were partially offset by lower average selling prices of protein meal. Corn Processing sales increased 11% to $4.9 billion due to sales increases in both Sweeteners and Starches and Bioproducts. Sweeteners and Starches sales increased due to higher average selling prices and sales volumes. Sales volumes and prices have increased primarily due to solid demand for sweetener and starch products. Bioproducts sales increased primarily due to increased sales volumes and average selling prices of ethanol, partially offset by lower average selling prices of lysine. The increases in ethanol sales volumes and sales prices were principally due to increased demand from gasoline refiners as refiners used ethanol to replace MTBE as a gasoline additive and to increased gasoline prices. Agricultural Services sales increased 2% to $15.4 billion primarily due to increased commodity prices in North America and, to a lesser extent, increased barge freight rates as the gulf coast hurricanes reduced barge capacities and created strong demand for North American river transportation. These increases were partially offset by decreased commodity sales volumes in North America. The decreased sales volumes were primarily due to disruptions in North American grain origination and export activities caused by the hurricanes in the gulf coast region. Other sales decreased 3% to $4.4 billion primarily due to decreased average selling prices of cocoa products and lower sales volumes of formula feed products. These decreases were partially offset by increased average selling prices of wheat flour products due to higher commodity prices. Cost of products sold increased $118 million to $33.6 billion due primarily to higher average prices of agricultural commodities and increased manufacturing costs, partially offset by currency exchange rate decreases of $389 million. Manufacturing costs increased $399 million primarily due to increased energy costs, an $86 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets, and increased employee related costs. Selling, general, and administrative expenses increased $112 million to $1.2 billion principally due to increased employee related costs, including a $31 million charge related to the adoption of SFAS 123(R), $20 million of severance costs associated with the closure of a citric acid plant, and increased provisions for doubtful accounts. Other income decreased $84 million due primarily to a $73 million decrease in realized securities gains, a $55 million decrease in equity in earnings of affiliates, and a $39 million increase in interest expense, partially offset by a $69 million increase in investment income. The decrease in realized securities gains is primarily due to the $114 million realized securities gain in 2005 from the sale of Tate & Lyle PLC shares, partially offset by $40 million of realized securities gains during 2006. The decrease in equity in earnings of affiliates is primarily due to the CIP Gain in 2005 and lower valuations of the Companys private equity fund investments in 2006, partially offset by improved earnings of the Companys Asian oilseed crushing ventures. Interest expense increased primarily due to higher average borrowing levels and interest rates. Investment income increased primarily due to the reversal of $19 million of Brazilian transactional taxes previously assessed on investment income upon positive resolution in the Brazilian Supreme Court, higher levels of invested funds, and higher interest rates. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Operating profit by segment is as follows: 2006 2005 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing $ 599 $ 345 $ 254 Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 431 271 160 Bioproducts 446 259 187 Total Corn Processing 877 530 347 Agricultural Services 275 262 13 Other Food, Feed, and Industrial 159 263 (104 ) Financial 151 151 Total Other 310 414 (104 ) Total Segment Operating Profit 2,061 1,551 510 Corporate (206 ) (35 ) (171 ) Earnings Before Income Taxes $ 1,855 $ 1,516 $ 339 Oilseeds Processing operating profits increased $254 million to $599 million primarily due to improved market conditions in all geographic regions. European processing results improved principally due to strong demand for biodiesel and abundant rapeseed supplies in Europe. This strong demand for biodiesel in Europe increased European vegetable oil demand and resulted in improved oilseeds processing results. Abundant rapeseed supplies in Europe resulted in lower rapeseed price levels. North American processing results improved principally due to abundant oilseed supplies in the United States and good demand for soybean meal. Vegetable oil values were solid as the markets anticipate new demand from the developing United States biodiesel industry. South American operating results increased primarily due to improved origination activities and a $27 million credit for Brazilian transactional taxes. Operating results in Asia increased due to improved soy crushing margins and improved palm operations. Operating profits include a $14 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets and a $6 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47. Operating profits for 2005 include a charge of $13 million for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Corn Processing operating profits increased $347 million to $877 million primarily due to higher average selling prices, increased sales volumes, and lower net corn costs, partially offset by increased energy costs. Sweeteners and Starches operating profits increased $160 million due primarily to decreased net corn costs and higher average sales prices and sales volumes. Sales volumes and prices have increased primarily due to good demand for sweetener and starch products. These increases were partially offset by increased energy costs. Sweeteners and Starches operating profits include a $5 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47. Bioproducts operating profits increased $187 million primarily due to higher ethanol sales volumes and average selling prices and decreased net corn costs, partially offset by increased energy costs and lower lysine average selling prices. The increases in ethanol sales volumes and average sales prices were principally due to increased demand from gasoline refiners as refiners used ethanol to replace MTBE as a gasoline additive and from increased gasoline prices. Bioproducts operating profits include a $6 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets, a $2 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47, and $6 million of costs related to the closure of a citric acid plant. Bioproducts operating profits for 2005 include a $16 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Agricultural Services operating profits increased $13 million to $275 million as improved results from transportation operations were partially offset by a decline in global grain merchandising and North American origination operating results. North American river transportation operating results increased primarily due to increased barge freight rates created by strong demand for barge capacity. This increase was partially offset by increased fuel costs. The gulf coast hurricanes negatively impacted North American origination and export activities during the first half of 2006. Other operating profits decreased $104 million to $310 million. Other Food, Feed, and Industrial operating results decreased $104 million due primarily to a $51 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets, a $2 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47, and a $9 million charge representing the Companys share of a charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets reported by an unconsolidated affiliate of the Company. In addition, cocoa processing, natural health and nutrition, and formula feed operating results declined from prior year levels. Cocoa processing operating results declined primarily due to increased industry capacity which caused downward pressure on cocoa finished product prices. Formula feed operating results declined due to costs associated with exiting the European animal feed business. Other Food, Feed, and Industrial operating profits include a $17 million gain from the sale of long lived assets. Other Food, Feed, and Industrial operating results for 2005 include a $13 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Other Financial operating profits are comparable to prior year levels as improvements in the Companys captive insurance operations and futures commission merchant business offset lower valuations of the Companys private equity fund investments. Corporate decreased $171 million due primarily to a $102 million decrease in income from the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations, the $114 million realized securities gain in 2005 from the sale of Tate & Lyle PLC shares, the CIP Gain in 2005, and a $22 million charge in 2006 upon the adoption of SFAS 123(R), partially offset by the aforementioned $19 million reversal of Brazilian transactional taxes and a $97 million reduction in unallocated interest expense. The reduction in unallocated interest expense is due principally to higher levels of invested funds and higher interest rates. Income taxes increased due principally to higher pretax earnings. This increase was partially offset by a $36 million reduction in income tax expense related to the recognition of federal and state income tax credits and adjustments resulting from the reconciliation of filed tax returns to the previously estimated tax provision. The Companys effective tax rate for 2006 was 29.3% as compared to 31.1% for 2005. Excluding the effect of the $36 million tax credit, the Companys effective tax rate was 31.2% for 2006 and, after excluding the effect of the CIP Gain, was 32.1% for 2005. No tax was provided on the CIP Gain in 2005, as CIP is a corporate joint venture of the Company and the proceeds from the sale are permanently reinvested. Excluding the effect of the $36 million tax credit in 2006 and the CIP Gain in 2005, the decrease in the Companys effective tax rate is primarily due to changes in the geographic mix of pretax earnings. Liquidity and Capital Resources The Companys objective is to have sufficient liquidity, balance sheet strength, and financial flexibility to fund the operating and capital requirements of a capital intensive agricultural based commodity business. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) At June 30, 2007, the Company continued to show substantial liquidity with working capital of $7.3 billion and a current ratio, defined as current assets divided by current liabilities, of 1.9 to 1. Included in working capital is $875 million of cash, cash equivalents, and short term marketable securities as well as $4.4 billion of readily marketable commodity inventories. Cash generated from operating activities totaled $303 million for the year compared to $1.4 billion last year. This decrease was primarily due to an increase in working capital requirements principally related to increased prices and quantities of agricultural commodity inventories and increased receivables, partially offset by increased cash earnings. Despite increased investment in property, plant, and equipment, cash used in investing activities decreased $714 million for the year to $355 million due primarily to increased sales of marketable securities and proceeds from sales of businesses including the sale of the Companys equity interests in Tyson Foods, Inc., Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc. and Agricore United. Cash used in financing activities was $398 million compared to cash generated by financing activities of $284 million last year. Net long term borrowings increased primarily as a result of the issuance of $1.2 billion of convertible senior notes in February 2007 (described in detail below), compared to $600 million of 30 year debentures issued in September 2005. This increase was partially offset by $283 million of increased payments on long term debt principally related to the Company retiring $400 million of debentures in 2007. Capital resources were strengthened as shown by the increase in the Companys net worth from $9.8 billion to $11.3 billion. The Companys ratio of long term debt to total capital (the sum of the Companys long term debt and shareholders equity) was 30% at June 30, 2007, and 29% at June 30, 2006. This ratio is a measure of the Companys long term liquidity and is an indicator of financial flexibility. The Company currently has $3.9 billion of commercial paper and commercial bank lines available to meet seasonal cash requirements of which $2.6 billion are committed and $1.3 billion are uncommitted. At June 30, 2007, the Company had $468 million of short term debt outstanding. Standard & Poors, Moodys, and Fitch rate the Companys commercial paper as A 1, P 1, and F1, respectively, and rate the Companys long term debt as A, A2, and A+, respectively. In addition to the cash flow generated from operations, the Company has access to equity and debt capital through numerous alternatives from public and private sources in domestic and international markets. In February 2007, the Company issued $1.2 billion principal amount of convertible senior notes due in 2014 (the Notes) in a private placement. The Notes were issued at par and bear interest at a rate of 0.875% per year, payable semiannually. The Notes are convertible based on an initial conversion rate of 22.8343 shares per $1,000 principal amount of Notes (which is equal to an initial conversion price of approximately $43.79 per share). The Notes may be converted, subject to adjustment, only under the following circumstances: 1) during any calendar quarter beginning after March 31, 2007, if the closing price of the Companys common stock for at least 20 trading days in the 30 consecutive trading days ending on the last trading day of the immediately preceding quarter is more than 140% of the applicable conversion price per share, which is $1,000 divided by the then applicable conversion rate, 2) during the five consecutive business day period immediately after any five consecutive trading day period (the note measurement period) in which the average of the trading price per $1,000 principal amount of Notes was equal to or less than 98% of the average of the product of the closing price of the Companys common stock and the conversion rate at each date during the note measurement period, 3) if the Company makes specified distributions to its common stockholders or specified corporate transactions occur, or 4) at any time on or after January 15, 2014, through the business day preceding the maturity date. Upon conversion, a holder would receive an amount in cash equal to the lesser of 1) $1,000 and 2) the conversion value, as defined. If the conversion value exceeds $1,000, the Company will deliver, at the Companys election, cash or common stock or a combination of cash and common stock for the conversion value in excess of $1,000. If the Notes are converted in connection with a change in control, as defined, the Company may be required to provide a make whole premium in the form of an increase in the conversion rate, subject to a stated maximum amount. In addition, in the event of a change in control, the holders may require the Company to purchase all or a portion of their Notes at a purchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Concurrent with the issuance of the Notes, the Company purchased call options in private transactions at a cost of $299 million. The purchased call options allow the Company to receive shares of its common stock and or cash from the counterparties equal to the amounts of common stock and or cash related to the excess of the current market price of the Companys common stock over the exercise price of the purchased call options. In addition, the Company sold warrants in private transactions to acquire, subject to customary anti dilution adjustments, 26.3 million shares of its common stock at an exercise price of $62.56 per share and received proceeds of $170 million. If the average price of the Companys common stock during a defined period ending on or about the respective settlement dates exceeds the exercise price of the warrants, the warrants will be settled, at the Companys option, in cash or shares of common stock. The purchased call options and warrants are intended to reduce the potential dilution upon future conversions of the Notes by effectively increasing the initial conversion price to $62.56 per share. Upon closing of the sale of the Notes, $370 million of the net proceeds from the Note issuance and the proceeds from the warrant transactions were used to repurchase 10.3 million shares of the Companys common stock under the Companys stock repurchase program. As of June 30, 2007, none of the conditions permitting conversion of the Notes had been satisfied. In addition, as of June 30, 2007, the market price of the Companys common stock was not greater than the exercise price of the purchased call options or warrants. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements In the normal course of business, the Company enters into contracts and commitments which obligate the Company to make payments in the future. The following table sets forth the Companys significant future obligations by time period. Purchases include commodity based contracts entered into in the normal course of business, which are further described in Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, energy related purchase contracts entered into in the normal course of business, and other purchase obligations related to the Companys normal business activities. Where applicable, information included in the Companys consolidated financial statements and notes is cross referenced in this table. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Payments Due by Period Contractual Note Less than 2 3 4 5 Over Obligations Reference Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years (In millions) Purchases Inventories $ 11,113 $ 10,312 $ 535 $ 159 $ 107 Energy 429 269 152 7 1 Other 217 67 94 43 13 Total purchases 11,759 10,648 781 209 121 Short term debt Note 7 468 468 Long term debt Note 7 4,897 65 92 425 4,315 Estimated interest payments 5,752 290 509 474 4,479 Operating leases Note 12 900 318 241 132 209 Estimated pension and other postretirement plan contributions Note 13 1,045 79 173 195 598 Total $ 24,821 $ 11,868 $ 1,796 $ 1,435 $ 9,722 At June 30, 2007, the Company estimates it will spend approximately $3.0 billion over the next four years to complete approved capital projects and acquisitions. The Company is a limited partner in various private equity funds which invest primarily in emerging markets. At June 30, 2007, the Companys carrying value of these limited partnership investments was $165 million. The Company has future capital commitments related to these partnerships of $138 million and expects the majority of these additional capital commitments, if called for, to be funded by cash flows generated by the partnerships. The Company also has outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds of $339 million at June 30, 2007. In addition, the Company has entered into agreements, primarily debt guarantee agreements related to equity method investees, which could obligate the Company to make future payments. The Companys liability under these agreements arises only if the primary entity fails to perform its contractual obligation. The Company has collateral for a portion of these contingent obligations. At June 30, 2007, these contingent obligations totaled approximately $98 million. Amounts outstanding for the primary entity under these contingent obligations were $51 million at June 30, 2007. Critical Accounting Policies The process of preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the carrying values of the Companys assets and liabilities as well as the recognition of revenues and expenses. These estimates and judgments are based on the Companys historical experience and managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Certain of the Companys accounting policies are considered critical, as these policies are important to the depiction of the Companys financial statements and require significant or complex judgment by management. Management has discussed with the Companys Audit Committee the development, selection, disclosure, and application of these critical accounting policies. Following are the accounting policies management considers critical to the Companys financial statements. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Inventories and Derivatives Certain of the Companys merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, forward fixed price purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and options contracts are valued at estimated market values. These merchandisable agricultural commodities are freely traded, have quoted market prices, and may be sold without significant additional processing. Management estimates market value based on exchange quoted prices, adjusted for differences in local markets. Changes in the market values of these inventories and contracts are recognized in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. If management used different methods or factors to estimate market value, amounts reported as inventories and cost of products sold could differ. Additionally, if market conditions change subsequent to year end, amounts reported in future periods as inventories and cost of products sold could differ. The Company, from time to time, uses derivative contracts to fix the purchase price of anticipated volumes of commodities to be purchased and processed in a future month, to fix the purchase price of the Companys anticipated natural gas requirements for certain production facilities, and to fix the sales price of anticipated volumes of ethanol. These derivative contracts are designated as cash flow hedges. The change in the market value of such derivative contracts has historically been, and is expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. If it is determined that the derivative instruments used are no longer effective at offsetting changes in the price of the hedged item, then the changes in the market value of these exchange traded futures contracts would be recorded in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. Employee Benefit Plans The Company provides substantially all domestic employees and employees at certain international subsidiaries with pension benefits. The Company also provides substantially all domestic salaried employees with postretirement health care and life insurance benefits. In order to measure the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans, management makes several estimates and assumptions, including interest rates used to discount certain liabilities, rates of return on assets set aside to fund these plans, rates of compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and anticipated future health care costs. These estimates and assumptions are based on the Companys historical experience combined with managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Management also uses third party specialists to assist in measuring the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans. If management used different estimates and assumptions regarding these plans, the funded status of the plans could vary significantly, and the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Income Taxes The Company frequently faces challenges from domestic and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company records reserves for probable exposures. Deferred tax assets represent items to be used as tax deductions or credits in future tax returns, and the related tax benefit has already been recognized in the Companys income statement. Realization of certain deferred tax assets reflects the Companys tax planning strategies. Valuation allowances related to these deferred tax assets have been established to the extent the realization of the tax benefit is not probable. Based on managements evaluation of the Companys tax position, it is believed the amounts related to these tax exposures are appropriately accrued. To the extent the Company were to favorably resolve matters for which accruals have been established or be required to pay amounts in excess of the aforementioned reserves, the Companys effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be impacted. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and affiliated corporate joint ventures accounted for on the equity method are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by unpredictable factors such as weather, plantings, government (domestic and foreign) farm programs and policies, changes in population growth, changes in standards of living, and production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned unpredictable factors, therefore, may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and profitability of the Companys fixed asset base in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its factories. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment and technology related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. Assets are abandoned after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of this fixed asset base, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Valuation of Marketable Securities and Investments in Affiliates The Company classifies the majority of its marketable securities as available for sale and carries these securities at fair value. Investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings. For publicly traded securities, the fair value of the Companys investments is readily available based on quoted market prices. For non publicly traded securities, managements assessment of fair value is based on valuation methodologies including discounted cash flows and estimates of sales proceeds. In the event of a decline in fair value of an investment below carrying value, management may be required to determine if the decline in fair value is other than temporary. In evaluating the nature of a decline in the fair value of an investment, management considers the market conditions, trends of earnings, discounted cash flows, trading volumes, and other key measures of the investment as well as the Companys ability and intent to hold the investment. When such a decline in value is deemed to be other than temporary, an impairment loss is recognized in the current period operating results to the extent of the decline. See Notes 3 and 5 to the Companys consolidated financial statements for information regarding the Companys marketable securities and investments in affiliates. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these marketable securities, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) The Company is a limited partner in various private equity funds which invest primarily in emerging markets. The Company accounts for these limited partnerships using the equity method of accounting. Therefore, the Company is recording in the consolidated statement of earnings its proportional share of the limited partnerships net income or loss. The limited partnerships value their investments at fair value. Thus, unrealized gains and losses related to the change in fair value of these investments are recorded in the limited partnerships statements of earnings. The valuation of these investments, as determined by the general partner, can be subjective, and the values may vary significantly. Some of the factors causing the subjectivity and volatility of these valuations include the illiquidity and minority positions of these investments, currency exchange rate fluctuations, less regulated securities exchanges, and the inherent business risks and limitations present in the emerging market countries. The Company records the results of these limited partnerships based on the information provided to the Company by the general partner. Due to the subjectivity and volatility in valuing these investments, the fair value of these investments, and thus the Companys results, could vary significantly over future periods. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in commodities futures prices, marketable equity security prices, market prices of limited partnerships investments, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and price of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to unpredictable factors such as weather, plantings, government (domestic and foreign) farm programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. To reduce price risk caused by market fluctuations, the Company generally follows a policy of using exchange traded futures and options contracts to minimize its net position of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories and forward cash purchase and sales contracts. The Company will also use exchange traded futures and options contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the volatility of the relationship between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contracts defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company from time to time enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) A sensitivity analysis has been prepared to estimate the Companys exposure to market risk of its daily net commodity position. The Companys daily net commodity position consists of inventories, related purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures contracts, including those contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements. The fair value of such daily net commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing each net position at quoted futures prices. Market risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in such prices. Actual results may differ. 2007 2006 Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest long position $ 703 $ 70 $ 510 $ 51 Highest short position 565 57 574 57 Average position long (short) 180 18 (203 ) (20 ) The change in fair value of the average position for 2007 compared to 2006 was principally a result of changes in the daily net commodity position and commodity prices. Marketable Equity Securities Marketable equity securities, which are recorded at fair value, have exposure to price risk. The fair value of marketable equity securities is based on quoted market prices. Risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted market prices. Actual results may differ. 2007 2006 (In millions) Fair value $ 227 $ 640 Market risk 23 64 The decrease in fair value for 2007 compared to 2006 resulted primarily from disposals of securities partially offset by increases in fair market value of certain securities. Limited Partnerships The Company is a limited partner in various private equity funds which invest primarily in emerging markets. The Company accounts for these limited partnerships using the equity method of accounting. Therefore, the Company is recording in the consolidated statement of earnings its proportional share of the limited partnerships net income or loss. The limited partnerships value their investments at fair value. Risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in market prices of the limited partnerships investments. Actual results may differ. 2007 2006 (In millions) Fair value of partnerships investments $ 188 $ 210 Market risk 19 21 The decrease in fair value for 2007 compared to 2006 resulted primarily from returns of capital. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) Currencies In order to reduce the risk of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, except for amounts permanently invested as described below, the Company follows a policy of entering into currency exchange forward contracts to mitigate its foreign currency risk related to transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currencies applicable to each of its various entities. The instruments used are readily marketable exchange traded futures contracts and forward contracts with banks. The changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $5.4 billion at June 30, 2007, and $4.5 billion at June 30, 2006. This increase is due to an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and appreciation of foreign currency exchange rates. The potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $543 million and $454 million for 2007 and 2006, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical .5 % decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2007 2006 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 4,927 $ 4,387 Excess of fair value over carrying value 110 257 Market risk 204 218 The increase in fair value of long term debt in 2007 resulted principally from the Companys issuance of $1.2 billion convertible senior notes partially offset by repayment of $400 million of debentures and other principal payments of long term debt. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Oilseeds Processing sales increased $64 million to $11.9 billion principally due to higher average selling prices of South American oilseed exports and of vegetable oil. These increases were partially offset by lower average selling prices of protein meal. Corn Processing sales increased 11% to $4.9 billion due to sales increases in both Sweeteners and Starches and Bioproducts. Sweeteners and Starches sales increased due to higher average selling prices and sales volumes. Sales volumes and prices have increased primarily due to solid demand for sweetener and starch products. Bioproducts sales increased primarily due to increased sales volumes and average selling prices of ethanol, partially offset by lower average selling prices of lysine. The increases in ethanol sales volumes and sales prices were principally due to increased demand from gasoline refiners as refiners used ethanol to replace MTBE as a gasoline additive and to increased gasoline prices. Agricultural Services sales increased 2% to $15.4 billion primarily due to increased commodity prices in North America and, to a lesser extent, increased barge freight rates as the gulf coast hurricanes reduced barge capacities and created strong demand for North American river transportation. These increases were partially offset by decreased commodity sales volumes in North America. The decreased sales volumes were primarily due to disruptions in North American grain origination and export activities caused by the hurricanes in the gulf coast region. Other sales decreased 3% to $4.4 billion primarily due to decreased average selling prices of cocoa products and lower sales volumes of formula feed products. These decreases were partially offset by increased average selling prices of wheat flour products due to higher commodity prices. Cost of products sold increased $118 million to $33.6 billion due primarily to higher average prices of agricultural commodities and increased manufacturing costs, partially offset by currency exchange rate decreases of $389 million. Manufacturing costs increased $399 million primarily due to increased energy costs, an $86 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets, and increased employee related costs. Selling, general, and administrative expenses increased $112 million to $1.2 billion principally due to increased employee related costs, including a $31 million charge related to the adoption of SFAS 123(R), $20 million of severance costs associated with the closure of a citric acid plant, and increased provisions for doubtful accounts. Other income decreased $84 million due primarily to a $73 million decrease in realized securities gains, a $55 million decrease in equity in earnings of affiliates, and a $39 million increase in interest expense, partially offset by a $69 million increase in investment income. The decrease in realized securities gains is primarily due to the $114 million realized securities gain in 2005 from the sale of Tate & Lyle PLC shares, partially offset by $40 million of realized securities gains during 2006. The decrease in equity in earnings of affiliates is primarily due to the CIP Gain in 2005 and lower valuations of the Companys private equity fund investments in 2006, partially offset by improved earnings of the Companys Asian oilseed crushing ventures. Interest expense increased primarily due to higher average borrowing levels and interest rates. Investment income increased primarily due to the reversal of $19 million of Brazilian transactional taxes previously assessed on investment income upon positive resolution in the Brazilian Supreme Court, higher levels of invested funds, and higher interest rates. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Operating profit by segment is as follows: 2006 2005 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing $ 599 $ 345 $ 254 Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 431 271 160 Bioproducts 446 259 187 Total Corn Processing 877 530 347 Agricultural Services 275 262 13 Other Food, Feed, and Industrial 159 263 (104 ) Financial 151 151 Total Other 310 414 (104 ) Total Segment Operating Profit 2,061 1,551 510 Corporate (206 ) (35 ) (171 ) Earnings Before Income Taxes $ 1,855 $ 1,516 $ 339 Oilseeds Processing operating profits increased $254 million to $599 million primarily due to improved market conditions in all geographic regions. European processing results improved principally due to strong demand for biodiesel and abundant rapeseed supplies in Europe. This strong demand for biodiesel in Europe increased European vegetable oil demand and resulted in improved oilseeds processing results. Abundant rapeseed supplies in Europe resulted in lower rapeseed price levels. North American processing results improved principally due to abundant oilseed supplies in the United States and good demand for soybean meal. Vegetable oil values were solid as the markets anticipate new demand from the developing United States biodiesel industry. South American operating results increased primarily due to improved origination activities and a $27 million credit for Brazilian transactional taxes. Operating results in Asia increased due to improved soy crushing margins and improved palm operations. Operating profits include a $14 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets and a $6 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47. Operating profits for 2005 include a charge of $13 million for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Corn Processing operating profits increased $347 million to $877 million primarily due to higher average selling prices, increased sales volumes, and lower net corn costs, partially offset by increased energy costs. Sweeteners and Starches operating profits increased $160 million due primarily to decreased net corn costs and higher average sales prices and sales volumes. Sales volumes and prices have increased primarily due to good demand for sweetener and starch products. These increases were partially offset by increased energy costs. Sweeteners and Starches operating profits include a $5 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47. Bioproducts operating profits increased $187 million primarily due to higher ethanol sales volumes and average selling prices and decreased net corn costs, partially offset by increased energy costs and lower lysine average selling prices. The increases in ethanol sales volumes and average sales prices were principally due to increased demand from gasoline refiners as refiners used ethanol to replace MTBE as a gasoline additive and from increased gasoline prices. Bioproducts operating profits include a $6 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets, a $2 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47, and $6 million of costs related to the closure of a citric acid plant. Bioproducts operating profits for 2005 include a $16 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Agricultural Services operating profits increased $13 million to $275 million as improved results from transportation operations were partially offset by a decline in global grain merchandising and North American origination operating results. North American river transportation operating results increased primarily due to increased barge freight rates created by strong demand for barge capacity. This increase was partially offset by increased fuel costs. The gulf coast hurricanes negatively impacted North American origination and export activities during the first half of 2006. Other operating profits decreased $104 million to $310 million. Other Food, Feed, and Industrial operating results decreased $104 million due primarily to a $51 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets, a $2 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47, and a $9 million charge representing the Companys share of a charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets reported by an unconsolidated affiliate of the Company. In addition, cocoa processing, natural health and nutrition, and formula feed operating results declined from prior year levels. Cocoa processing operating results declined primarily due to increased industry capacity which caused downward pressure on cocoa finished product prices. Formula feed operating results declined due to costs associated with exiting the European animal feed business. Other Food, Feed, and Industrial operating profits include a $17 million gain from the sale of long lived assets. Other Food, Feed, and Industrial operating results for 2005 include a $13 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Other Financial operating profits are comparable to prior year levels as improvements in the Companys captive insurance operations and futures commission merchant business offset lower valuations of the Companys private equity fund investments. Corporate decreased $171 million due primarily to a $102 million decrease in income from the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations, the $114 million realized securities gain in 2005 from the sale of Tate & Lyle PLC shares, the CIP Gain in 2005, and a $22 million charge in 2006 upon the adoption of SFAS 123(R), partially offset by the aforementioned $19 million reversal of Brazilian transactional taxes and a $97 million reduction in unallocated interest expense. The reduction in unallocated interest expense is due principally to higher levels of invested funds and higher interest rates. Income taxes increased due principally to higher pretax earnings. This increase was partially offset by a $36 million reduction in income tax expense related to the recognition of federal and state income tax credits and adjustments resulting from the reconciliation of filed tax returns to the previously estimated tax provision. The Companys effective tax rate for 2006 was 29.3% as compared to 31.1% for 2005. Excluding the effect of the $36 million tax credit, the Companys effective tax rate was 31.2% for 2006 and, after excluding the effect of the CIP Gain, was 32.1% for 2005. No tax was provided on the CIP Gain in 2005, as CIP is a corporate joint venture of the Company and the proceeds from the sale are permanently reinvested. Excluding the effect of the $36 million tax credit in 2006 and the CIP Gain in 2005, the decrease in the Companys effective tax rate is primarily due to changes in the geographic mix of pretax earnings. Liquidity and Capital Resources The Companys objective is to have sufficient liquidity, balance sheet strength, and financial flexibility to fund the operating and capital requirements of a capital intensive agricultural based commodity business. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) At June 30, 2007, the Company continued to show substantial liquidity with working capital of $7.3 billion and a current ratio, defined as current assets divided by current liabilities, of 1.9 to 1. Included in working capital is $875 million of cash, cash equivalents, and short term marketable securities as well as $4.4 billion of readily marketable commodity inventories. Cash generated from operating activities totaled $303 million for the year compared to $1.4 billion last year. This decrease was primarily due to an increase in working capital requirements principally related to increased prices and quantities of agricultural commodity inventories and increased receivables, partially offset by increased cash earnings. Despite increased investment in property, plant, and equipment, cash used in investing activities decreased $714 million for the year to $355 million due primarily to increased sales of marketable securities and proceeds from sales of businesses including the sale of the Companys equity interests in Tyson Foods, Inc., Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc. and Agricore United. Cash used in financing activities was $398 million compared to cash generated by financing activities of $284 million last year. Net long term borrowings increased primarily as a result of the issuance of $1.2 billion of convertible senior notes in February 2007 (described in detail below), compared to $600 million of 30 year debentures issued in September 2005. This increase was partially offset by $283 million of increased payments on long term debt principally related to the Company retiring $400 million of debentures in 2007. Capital resources were strengthened as shown by the increase in the Companys net worth from $9.8 billion to $11.3 billion. The Companys ratio of long term debt to total capital (the sum of the Companys long term debt and shareholders equity) was 30% at June 30, 2007, and 29% at June 30, 2006. This ratio is a measure of the Companys long term liquidity and is an indicator of financial flexibility. The Company currently has $3.9 billion of commercial paper and commercial bank lines available to meet seasonal cash requirements of which $2.6 billion are committed and $1.3 billion are uncommitted. At June 30, 2007, the Company had $468 million of short term debt outstanding. Standard & Poors, Moodys, and Fitch rate the Companys commercial paper as A 1, P 1, and F1, respectively, and rate the Companys long term debt as A, A2, and A+, respectively. In addition to the cash flow generated from operations, the Company has access to equity and debt capital through numerous alternatives from public and private sources in domestic and international markets. In February 2007, the Company issued $1.2 billion principal amount of convertible senior notes due in 2014 (the Notes) in a private placement. The Notes were issued at par and bear interest at a rate of 0.875% per year, payable semiannually. The Notes are convertible based on an initial conversion rate of 22.8343 shares per $1,000 principal amount of Notes (which is equal to an initial conversion price of approximately $43.79 per share). The Notes may be converted, subject to adjustment, only under the following circumstances: 1) during any calendar quarter beginning after March 31, 2007, if the closing price of the Companys common stock for at least 20 trading days in the 30 consecutive trading days ending on the last trading day of the immediately preceding quarter is more than 140% of the applicable conversion price per share, which is $1,000 divided by the then applicable conversion rate, 2) during the five consecutive business day period immediately after any five consecutive trading day period (the note measurement period) in which the average of the trading price per $1,000 principal amount of Notes was equal to or less than 98% of the average of the product of the closing price of the Companys common stock and the conversion rate at each date during the note measurement period, 3) if the Company makes specified distributions to its common stockholders or specified corporate transactions occur, or 4) at any time on or after January 15, 2014, through the business day preceding the maturity date. Upon conversion, a holder would receive an amount in cash equal to the lesser of 1) $1,000 and 2) the conversion value, as defined. If the conversion value exceeds $1,000, the Company will deliver, at the Companys election, cash or common stock or a combination of cash and common stock for the conversion value in excess of $1,000. If the Notes are converted in connection with a change in control, as defined, the Company may be required to provide a make whole premium in the form of an increase in the conversion rate, subject to a stated maximum amount. In addition, in the event of a change in control, the holders may require the Company to purchase all or a portion of their Notes at a purchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Concurrent with the issuance of the Notes, the Company purchased call options in private transactions at a cost of $299 million. The purchased call options allow the Company to receive shares of its common stock and or cash from the counterparties equal to the amounts of common stock and or cash related to the excess of the current market price of the Companys common stock over the exercise price of the purchased call options. In addition, the Company sold warrants in private transactions to acquire, subject to customary anti dilution adjustments, 26.3 million shares of its common stock at an exercise price of $62.56 per share and received proceeds of $170 million. If the average price of the Companys common stock during a defined period ending on or about the respective settlement dates exceeds the exercise price of the warrants, the warrants will be settled, at the Companys option, in cash or shares of common stock. The purchased call options and warrants are intended to reduce the potential dilution upon future conversions of the Notes by effectively increasing the initial conversion price to $62.56 per share. Upon closing of the sale of the Notes, $370 million of the net proceeds from the Note issuance and the proceeds from the warrant transactions were used to repurchase 10.3 million shares of the Companys common stock under the Companys stock repurchase program. As of June 30, 2007, none of the conditions permitting conversion of the Notes had been satisfied. In addition, as of June 30, 2007, the market price of the Companys common stock was not greater than the exercise price of the purchased call options or warrants. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements In the normal course of business, the Company enters into contracts and commitments which obligate the Company to make payments in the future. The following table sets forth the Companys significant future obligations by time period. Purchases include commodity based contracts entered into in the normal course of business, which are further described in Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, energy related purchase contracts entered into in the normal course of business, and other purchase obligations related to the Companys normal business activities. Where applicable, information included in the Companys consolidated financial statements and notes is cross referenced in this table. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Payments Due by Period Contractual Note Less than 2 3 4 5 Over Obligations Reference Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years (In millions) Purchases Inventories $ 11,113 $ 10,312 $ 535 $ 159 $ 107 Energy 429 269 152 7 1 Other 217 67 94 43 13 Total purchases 11,759 10,648 781 209 121 Short term debt Note 7 468 468 Long term debt Note 7 4,897 65 92 425 4,315 Estimated interest payments 5,752 290 509 474 4,479 Operating leases Note 12 900 318 241 132 209 Estimated pension and other postretirement plan contributions Note 13 1,045 79 173 195 598 Total $ 24,821 $ 11,868 $ 1,796 $ 1,435 $ 9,722 At June 30, 2007, the Company estimates it will spend approximately $3.0 billion over the next four years to complete approved capital projects and acquisitions. The Company is a limited partner in various private equity funds which invest primarily in emerging markets. At June 30, 2007, the Companys carrying value of these limited partnership investments was $165 million. The Company has future capital commitments related to these partnerships of $138 million and expects the majority of these additional capital commitments, if called for, to be funded by cash flows generated by the partnerships. The Company also has outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds of $339 million at June 30, 2007. In addition, the Company has entered into agreements, primarily debt guarantee agreements related to equity method investees, which could obligate the Company to make future payments. The Companys liability under these agreements arises only if the primary entity fails to perform its contractual obligation. The Company has collateral for a portion of these contingent obligations. At June 30, 2007, these contingent obligations totaled approximately $98 million. Amounts outstanding for the primary entity under these contingent obligations were $51 million at June 30, 2007. Critical Accounting Policies The process of preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the carrying values of the Companys assets and liabilities as well as the recognition of revenues and expenses. These estimates and judgments are based on the Companys historical experience and managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Certain of the Companys accounting policies are considered critical, as these policies are important to the depiction of the Companys financial statements and require significant or complex judgment by management. Management has discussed with the Companys Audit Committee the development, selection, disclosure, and application of these critical accounting policies. Following are the accounting policies management considers critical to the Companys financial statements. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Inventories and Derivatives Certain of the Companys merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, forward fixed price purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and options contracts are valued at estimated market values. These merchandisable agricultural commodities are freely traded, have quoted market prices, and may be sold without significant additional processing. Management estimates market value based on exchange quoted prices, adjusted for differences in local markets. Changes in the market values of these inventories and contracts are recognized in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. If management used different methods or factors to estimate market value, amounts reported as inventories and cost of products sold could differ. Additionally, if market conditions change subsequent to year end, amounts reported in future periods as inventories and cost of products sold could differ. The Company, from time to time, uses derivative contracts to fix the purchase price of anticipated volumes of commodities to be purchased and processed in a future month, to fix the purchase price of the Companys anticipated natural gas requirements for certain production facilities, and to fix the sales price of anticipated volumes of ethanol. These derivative contracts are designated as cash flow hedges. The change in the market value of such derivative contracts has historically been, and is expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. If it is determined that the derivative instruments used are no longer effective at offsetting changes in the price of the hedged item, then the changes in the market value of these exchange traded futures contracts would be recorded in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. Employee Benefit Plans The Company provides substantially all domestic employees and employees at certain international subsidiaries with pension benefits. The Company also provides substantially all domestic salaried employees with postretirement health care and life insurance benefits. In order to measure the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans, management makes several estimates and assumptions, including interest rates used to discount certain liabilities, rates of return on assets set aside to fund these plans, rates of compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and anticipated future health care costs. These estimates and assumptions are based on the Companys historical experience combined with managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Management also uses third party specialists to assist in measuring the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans. If management used different estimates and assumptions regarding these plans, the funded status of the plans could vary significantly, and the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Income Taxes The Company frequently faces challenges from domestic and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company records reserves for probable exposures. Deferred tax assets represent items to be used as tax deductions or credits in future tax returns, and the related tax benefit has already been recognized in the Companys income statement. Realization of certain deferred tax assets reflects the Companys tax planning strategies. Valuation allowances related to these deferred tax assets have been established to the extent the realization of the tax benefit is not probable. Based on managements evaluation of the Companys tax position, it is believed the amounts related to these tax exposures are appropriately accrued. To the extent the Company were to favorably resolve matters for which accruals have been established or be required to pay amounts in excess of the aforementioned reserves, the Companys effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be impacted. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and affiliated corporate joint ventures accounted for on the equity method are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by unpredictable factors such as weather, plantings, government (domestic and foreign) farm programs and policies, changes in population growth, changes in standards of living, and production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned unpredictable factors, therefore, may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and profitability of the Companys fixed asset base in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its factories. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment and technology related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. Assets are abandoned after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of this fixed asset base, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Valuation of Marketable Securities and Investments in Affiliates The Company classifies the majority of its marketable securities as available for sale and carries these securities at fair value. Investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings. For publicly traded securities, the fair value of the Companys investments is readily available based on quoted market prices. For non publicly traded securities, managements assessment of fair value is based on valuation methodologies including discounted cash flows and estimates of sales proceeds. In the event of a decline in fair value of an investment below carrying value, management may be required to determine if the decline in fair value is other than temporary. In evaluating the nature of a decline in the fair value of an investment, management considers the market conditions, trends of earnings, discounted cash flows, trading volumes, and other key measures of the investment as well as the Companys ability and intent to hold the investment. When such a decline in value is deemed to be other than temporary, an impairment loss is recognized in the current period operating results to the extent of the decline. See Notes 3 and 5 to the Companys consolidated financial statements for information regarding the Companys marketable securities and investments in affiliates. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these marketable securities, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) The Company is a limited partner in various private equity funds which invest primarily in emerging markets. The Company accounts for these limited partnerships using the equity method of accounting. Therefore, the Company is recording in the consolidated statement of earnings its proportional share of the limited partnerships net income or loss. The limited partnerships value their investments at fair value. Thus, unrealized gains and losses related to the change in fair value of these investments are recorded in the limited partnerships statements of earnings. The valuation of these investments, as determined by the general partner, can be subjective, and the values may vary significantly. Some of the factors causing the subjectivity and volatility of these valuations include the illiquidity and minority positions of these investments, currency exchange rate fluctuations, less regulated securities exchanges, and the inherent business risks and limitations present in the emerging market countries. The Company records the results of these limited partnerships based on the information provided to the Company by the general partner. Due to the subjectivity and volatility in valuing these investments, the fair value of these investments, and thus the Companys results, could vary significantly over future periods. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in commodities futures prices, marketable equity security prices, market prices of limited partnerships investments, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and price of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to unpredictable factors such as weather, plantings, government (domestic and foreign) farm programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. To reduce price risk caused by market fluctuations, the Company generally follows a policy of using exchange traded futures and options contracts to minimize its net position of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories and forward cash purchase and sales contracts. The Company will also use exchange traded futures and options contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the volatility of the relationship between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contracts defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company from time to time enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) A sensitivity analysis has been prepared to estimate the Companys exposure to market risk of its daily net commodity position. The Companys daily net commodity position consists of inventories, related purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures contracts, including those contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements. The fair value of such daily net commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing each net position at quoted futures prices. Market risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in such prices. Actual results may differ. 2007 2006 Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest long position $ 703 $ 70 $ 510 $ 51 Highest short position 565 57 574 57 Average position long (short) 180 18 (203 ) (20 ) The change in fair value of the average position for 2007 compared to 2006 was principally a result of changes in the daily net commodity position and commodity prices. Marketable Equity Securities Marketable equity securities, which are recorded at fair value, have exposure to price risk. The fair value of marketable equity securities is based on quoted market prices. Risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted market prices. Actual results may differ. 2007 2006 (In millions) Fair value $ 227 $ 640 Market risk 23 64 The decrease in fair value for 2007 compared to 2006 resulted primarily from disposals of securities partially offset by increases in fair market value of certain securities. Limited Partnerships The Company is a limited partner in various private equity funds which invest primarily in emerging markets. The Company accounts for these limited partnerships using the equity method of accounting. Therefore, the Company is recording in the consolidated statement of earnings its proportional share of the limited partnerships net income or loss. The limited partnerships value their investments at fair value. Risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in market prices of the limited partnerships investments. Actual results may differ. 2007 2006 (In millions) Fair value of partnerships investments $ 188 $ 210 Market risk 19 21 The decrease in fair value for 2007 compared to 2006 resulted primarily from returns of capital. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) Currencies In order to reduce the risk of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, except for amounts permanently invested as described below, the Company follows a policy of entering into currency exchange forward contracts to mitigate its foreign currency risk related to transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currencies applicable to each of its various entities. The instruments used are readily marketable exchange traded futures contracts and forward contracts with banks. The changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $5.4 billion at June 30, 2007, and $4.5 billion at June 30, 2006. This increase is due to an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and appreciation of foreign currency exchange rates. The potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $543 million and $454 million for 2007 and 2006, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical .5 % decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2007 2006 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 4,927 $ 4,387 Excess of fair value over carrying value 110 257 Market risk 204 218 The increase in fair value of long term debt in 2007 resulted principally from the Companys issuance of $1.2 billion convertible senior notes partially offset by repayment of $400 million of debentures and other principal payments of long term debt. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Operating profit by segment is as follows: 2006 2005 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing $ 599 $ 345 $ 254 Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 431 271 160 Bioproducts 446 259 187 Total Corn Processing 877 530 347 Agricultural Services 275 262 13 Other Food, Feed, and Industrial 159 263 (104 ) Financial 151 151 Total Other 310 414 (104 ) Total Segment Operating Profit 2,061 1,551 510 Corporate (206 ) (35 ) (171 ) Earnings Before Income Taxes $ 1,855 $ 1,516 $ 339 Oilseeds Processing operating profits increased $254 million to $599 million primarily due to improved market conditions in all geographic regions. European processing results improved principally due to strong demand for biodiesel and abundant rapeseed supplies in Europe. This strong demand for biodiesel in Europe increased European vegetable oil demand and resulted in improved oilseeds processing results. Abundant rapeseed supplies in Europe resulted in lower rapeseed price levels. North American processing results improved principally due to abundant oilseed supplies in the United States and good demand for soybean meal. Vegetable oil values were solid as the markets anticipate new demand from the developing United States biodiesel industry. South American operating results increased primarily due to improved origination activities and a $27 million credit for Brazilian transactional taxes. Operating results in Asia increased due to improved soy crushing margins and improved palm operations. Operating profits include a $14 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets and a $6 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47. Operating profits for 2005 include a charge of $13 million for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Corn Processing operating profits increased $347 million to $877 million primarily due to higher average selling prices, increased sales volumes, and lower net corn costs, partially offset by increased energy costs. Sweeteners and Starches operating profits increased $160 million due primarily to decreased net corn costs and higher average sales prices and sales volumes. Sales volumes and prices have increased primarily due to good demand for sweetener and starch products. These increases were partially offset by increased energy costs. Sweeteners and Starches operating profits include a $5 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47. Bioproducts operating profits increased $187 million primarily due to higher ethanol sales volumes and average selling prices and decreased net corn costs, partially offset by increased energy costs and lower lysine average selling prices. The increases in ethanol sales volumes and average sales prices were principally due to increased demand from gasoline refiners as refiners used ethanol to replace MTBE as a gasoline additive and from increased gasoline prices. Bioproducts operating profits include a $6 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets, a $2 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47, and $6 million of costs related to the closure of a citric acid plant. Bioproducts operating profits for 2005 include a $16 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Agricultural Services operating profits increased $13 million to $275 million as improved results from transportation operations were partially offset by a decline in global grain merchandising and North American origination operating results. North American river transportation operating results increased primarily due to increased barge freight rates created by strong demand for barge capacity. This increase was partially offset by increased fuel costs. The gulf coast hurricanes negatively impacted North American origination and export activities during the first half of 2006. Other operating profits decreased $104 million to $310 million. Other Food, Feed, and Industrial operating results decreased $104 million due primarily to a $51 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets, a $2 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47, and a $9 million charge representing the Companys share of a charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets reported by an unconsolidated affiliate of the Company. In addition, cocoa processing, natural health and nutrition, and formula feed operating results declined from prior year levels. Cocoa processing operating results declined primarily due to increased industry capacity which caused downward pressure on cocoa finished product prices. Formula feed operating results declined due to costs associated with exiting the European animal feed business. Other Food, Feed, and Industrial operating profits include a $17 million gain from the sale of long lived assets. Other Food, Feed, and Industrial operating results for 2005 include a $13 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Other Financial operating profits are comparable to prior year levels as improvements in the Companys captive insurance operations and futures commission merchant business offset lower valuations of the Companys private equity fund investments. Corporate decreased $171 million due primarily to a $102 million decrease in income from the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations, the $114 million realized securities gain in 2005 from the sale of Tate & Lyle PLC shares, the CIP Gain in 2005, and a $22 million charge in 2006 upon the adoption of SFAS 123(R), partially offset by the aforementioned $19 million reversal of Brazilian transactional taxes and a $97 million reduction in unallocated interest expense. The reduction in unallocated interest expense is due principally to higher levels of invested funds and higher interest rates. Income taxes increased due principally to higher pretax earnings. This increase was partially offset by a $36 million reduction in income tax expense related to the recognition of federal and state income tax credits and adjustments resulting from the reconciliation of filed tax returns to the previously estimated tax provision. The Companys effective tax rate for 2006 was 29.3% as compared to 31.1% for 2005. Excluding the effect of the $36 million tax credit, the Companys effective tax rate was 31.2% for 2006 and, after excluding the effect of the CIP Gain, was 32.1% for 2005. No tax was provided on the CIP Gain in 2005, as CIP is a corporate joint venture of the Company and the proceeds from the sale are permanently reinvested. Excluding the effect of the $36 million tax credit in 2006 and the CIP Gain in 2005, the decrease in the Companys effective tax rate is primarily due to changes in the geographic mix of pretax earnings. Liquidity and Capital Resources The Companys objective is to have sufficient liquidity, balance sheet strength, and financial flexibility to fund the operating and capital requirements of a capital intensive agricultural based commodity business. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) At June 30, 2007, the Company continued to show substantial liquidity with working capital of $7.3 billion and a current ratio, defined as current assets divided by current liabilities, of 1.9 to 1. Included in working capital is $875 million of cash, cash equivalents, and short term marketable securities as well as $4.4 billion of readily marketable commodity inventories. Cash generated from operating activities totaled $303 million for the year compared to $1.4 billion last year. This decrease was primarily due to an increase in working capital requirements principally related to increased prices and quantities of agricultural commodity inventories and increased receivables, partially offset by increased cash earnings. Despite increased investment in property, plant, and equipment, cash used in investing activities decreased $714 million for the year to $355 million due primarily to increased sales of marketable securities and proceeds from sales of businesses including the sale of the Companys equity interests in Tyson Foods, Inc., Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc. and Agricore United. Cash used in financing activities was $398 million compared to cash generated by financing activities of $284 million last year. Net long term borrowings increased primarily as a result of the issuance of $1.2 billion of convertible senior notes in February 2007 (described in detail below), compared to $600 million of 30 year debentures issued in September 2005. This increase was partially offset by $283 million of increased payments on long term debt principally related to the Company retiring $400 million of debentures in 2007. Capital resources were strengthened as shown by the increase in the Companys net worth from $9.8 billion to $11.3 billion. The Companys ratio of long term debt to total capital (the sum of the Companys long term debt and shareholders equity) was 30% at June 30, 2007, and 29% at June 30, 2006. This ratio is a measure of the Companys long term liquidity and is an indicator of financial flexibility. The Company currently has $3.9 billion of commercial paper and commercial bank lines available to meet seasonal cash requirements of which $2.6 billion are committed and $1.3 billion are uncommitted. At June 30, 2007, the Company had $468 million of short term debt outstanding. Standard & Poors, Moodys, and Fitch rate the Companys commercial paper as A 1, P 1, and F1, respectively, and rate the Companys long term debt as A, A2, and A+, respectively. In addition to the cash flow generated from operations, the Company has access to equity and debt capital through numerous alternatives from public and private sources in domestic and international markets. In February 2007, the Company issued $1.2 billion principal amount of convertible senior notes due in 2014 (the Notes) in a private placement. The Notes were issued at par and bear interest at a rate of 0.875% per year, payable semiannually. The Notes are convertible based on an initial conversion rate of 22.8343 shares per $1,000 principal amount of Notes (which is equal to an initial conversion price of approximately $43.79 per share). The Notes may be converted, subject to adjustment, only under the following circumstances: 1) during any calendar quarter beginning after March 31, 2007, if the closing price of the Companys common stock for at least 20 trading days in the 30 consecutive trading days ending on the last trading day of the immediately preceding quarter is more than 140% of the applicable conversion price per share, which is $1,000 divided by the then applicable conversion rate, 2) during the five consecutive business day period immediately after any five consecutive trading day period (the note measurement period) in which the average of the trading price per $1,000 principal amount of Notes was equal to or less than 98% of the average of the product of the closing price of the Companys common stock and the conversion rate at each date during the note measurement period, 3) if the Company makes specified distributions to its common stockholders or specified corporate transactions occur, or 4) at any time on or after January 15, 2014, through the business day preceding the maturity date. Upon conversion, a holder would receive an amount in cash equal to the lesser of 1) $1,000 and 2) the conversion value, as defined. If the conversion value exceeds $1,000, the Company will deliver, at the Companys election, cash or common stock or a combination of cash and common stock for the conversion value in excess of $1,000. If the Notes are converted in connection with a change in control, as defined, the Company may be required to provide a make whole premium in the form of an increase in the conversion rate, subject to a stated maximum amount. In addition, in the event of a change in control, the holders may require the Company to purchase all or a portion of their Notes at a purchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Concurrent with the issuance of the Notes, the Company purchased call options in private transactions at a cost of $299 million. The purchased call options allow the Company to receive shares of its common stock and or cash from the counterparties equal to the amounts of common stock and or cash related to the excess of the current market price of the Companys common stock over the exercise price of the purchased call options. In addition, the Company sold warrants in private transactions to acquire, subject to customary anti dilution adjustments, 26.3 million shares of its common stock at an exercise price of $62.56 per share and received proceeds of $170 million. If the average price of the Companys common stock during a defined period ending on or about the respective settlement dates exceeds the exercise price of the warrants, the warrants will be settled, at the Companys option, in cash or shares of common stock. The purchased call options and warrants are intended to reduce the potential dilution upon future conversions of the Notes by effectively increasing the initial conversion price to $62.56 per share. Upon closing of the sale of the Notes, $370 million of the net proceeds from the Note issuance and the proceeds from the warrant transactions were used to repurchase 10.3 million shares of the Companys common stock under the Companys stock repurchase program. As of June 30, 2007, none of the conditions permitting conversion of the Notes had been satisfied. In addition, as of June 30, 2007, the market price of the Companys common stock was not greater than the exercise price of the purchased call options or warrants. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements In the normal course of business, the Company enters into contracts and commitments which obligate the Company to make payments in the future. The following table sets forth the Companys significant future obligations by time period. Purchases include commodity based contracts entered into in the normal course of business, which are further described in Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, energy related purchase contracts entered into in the normal course of business, and other purchase obligations related to the Companys normal business activities. Where applicable, information included in the Companys consolidated financial statements and notes is cross referenced in this table. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Payments Due by Period Contractual Note Less than 2 3 4 5 Over Obligations Reference Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years (In millions) Purchases Inventories $ 11,113 $ 10,312 $ 535 $ 159 $ 107 Energy 429 269 152 7 1 Other 217 67 94 43 13 Total purchases 11,759 10,648 781 209 121 Short term debt Note 7 468 468 Long term debt Note 7 4,897 65 92 425 4,315 Estimated interest payments 5,752 290 509 474 4,479 Operating leases Note 12 900 318 241 132 209 Estimated pension and other postretirement plan contributions Note 13 1,045 79 173 195 598 Total $ 24,821 $ 11,868 $ 1,796 $ 1,435 $ 9,722 At June 30, 2007, the Company estimates it will spend approximately $3.0 billion over the next four years to complete approved capital projects and acquisitions. The Company is a limited partner in various private equity funds which invest primarily in emerging markets. At June 30, 2007, the Companys carrying value of these limited partnership investments was $165 million. The Company has future capital commitments related to these partnerships of $138 million and expects the majority of these additional capital commitments, if called for, to be funded by cash flows generated by the partnerships. The Company also has outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds of $339 million at June 30, 2007. In addition, the Company has entered into agreements, primarily debt guarantee agreements related to equity method investees, which could obligate the Company to make future payments. The Companys liability under these agreements arises only if the primary entity fails to perform its contractual obligation. The Company has collateral for a portion of these contingent obligations. At June 30, 2007, these contingent obligations totaled approximately $98 million. Amounts outstanding for the primary entity under these contingent obligations were $51 million at June 30, 2007. Critical Accounting Policies The process of preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the carrying values of the Companys assets and liabilities as well as the recognition of revenues and expenses. These estimates and judgments are based on the Companys historical experience and managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Certain of the Companys accounting policies are considered critical, as these policies are important to the depiction of the Companys financial statements and require significant or complex judgment by management. Management has discussed with the Companys Audit Committee the development, selection, disclosure, and application of these critical accounting policies. Following are the accounting policies management considers critical to the Companys financial statements. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Inventories and Derivatives Certain of the Companys merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, forward fixed price purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and options contracts are valued at estimated market values. These merchandisable agricultural commodities are freely traded, have quoted market prices, and may be sold without significant additional processing. Management estimates market value based on exchange quoted prices, adjusted for differences in local markets. Changes in the market values of these inventories and contracts are recognized in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. If management used different methods or factors to estimate market value, amounts reported as inventories and cost of products sold could differ. Additionally, if market conditions change subsequent to year end, amounts reported in future periods as inventories and cost of products sold could differ. The Company, from time to time, uses derivative contracts to fix the purchase price of anticipated volumes of commodities to be purchased and processed in a future month, to fix the purchase price of the Companys anticipated natural gas requirements for certain production facilities, and to fix the sales price of anticipated volumes of ethanol. These derivative contracts are designated as cash flow hedges. The change in the market value of such derivative contracts has historically been, and is expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. If it is determined that the derivative instruments used are no longer effective at offsetting changes in the price of the hedged item, then the changes in the market value of these exchange traded futures contracts would be recorded in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. Employee Benefit Plans The Company provides substantially all domestic employees and employees at certain international subsidiaries with pension benefits. The Company also provides substantially all domestic salaried employees with postretirement health care and life insurance benefits. In order to measure the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans, management makes several estimates and assumptions, including interest rates used to discount certain liabilities, rates of return on assets set aside to fund these plans, rates of compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and anticipated future health care costs. These estimates and assumptions are based on the Companys historical experience combined with managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Management also uses third party specialists to assist in measuring the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans. If management used different estimates and assumptions regarding these plans, the funded status of the plans could vary significantly, and the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Income Taxes The Company frequently faces challenges from domestic and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company records reserves for probable exposures. Deferred tax assets represent items to be used as tax deductions or credits in future tax returns, and the related tax benefit has already been recognized in the Companys income statement. Realization of certain deferred tax assets reflects the Companys tax planning strategies. Valuation allowances related to these deferred tax assets have been established to the extent the realization of the tax benefit is not probable. Based on managements evaluation of the Companys tax position, it is believed the amounts related to these tax exposures are appropriately accrued. To the extent the Company were to favorably resolve matters for which accruals have been established or be required to pay amounts in excess of the aforementioned reserves, the Companys effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be impacted. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and affiliated corporate joint ventures accounted for on the equity method are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by unpredictable factors such as weather, plantings, government (domestic and foreign) farm programs and policies, changes in population growth, changes in standards of living, and production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned unpredictable factors, therefore, may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and profitability of the Companys fixed asset base in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its factories. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment and technology related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. Assets are abandoned after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of this fixed asset base, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Valuation of Marketable Securities and Investments in Affiliates The Company classifies the majority of its marketable securities as available for sale and carries these securities at fair value. Investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings. For publicly traded securities, the fair value of the Companys investments is readily available based on quoted market prices. For non publicly traded securities, managements assessment of fair value is based on valuation methodologies including discounted cash flows and estimates of sales proceeds. In the event of a decline in fair value of an investment below carrying value, management may be required to determine if the decline in fair value is other than temporary. In evaluating the nature of a decline in the fair value of an investment, management considers the market conditions, trends of earnings, discounted cash flows, trading volumes, and other key measures of the investment as well as the Companys ability and intent to hold the investment. When such a decline in value is deemed to be other than temporary, an impairment loss is recognized in the current period operating results to the extent of the decline. See Notes 3 and 5 to the Companys consolidated financial statements for information regarding the Companys marketable securities and investments in affiliates. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these marketable securities, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) The Company is a limited partner in various private equity funds which invest primarily in emerging markets. The Company accounts for these limited partnerships using the equity method of accounting. Therefore, the Company is recording in the consolidated statement of earnings its proportional share of the limited partnerships net income or loss. The limited partnerships value their investments at fair value. Thus, unrealized gains and losses related to the change in fair value of these investments are recorded in the limited partnerships statements of earnings. The valuation of these investments, as determined by the general partner, can be subjective, and the values may vary significantly. Some of the factors causing the subjectivity and volatility of these valuations include the illiquidity and minority positions of these investments, currency exchange rate fluctuations, less regulated securities exchanges, and the inherent business risks and limitations present in the emerging market countries. The Company records the results of these limited partnerships based on the information provided to the Company by the general partner. Due to the subjectivity and volatility in valuing these investments, the fair value of these investments, and thus the Companys results, could vary significantly over future periods. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in commodities futures prices, marketable equity security prices, market prices of limited partnerships investments, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and price of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to unpredictable factors such as weather, plantings, government (domestic and foreign) farm programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. To reduce price risk caused by market fluctuations, the Company generally follows a policy of using exchange traded futures and options contracts to minimize its net position of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories and forward cash purchase and sales contracts. The Company will also use exchange traded futures and options contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the volatility of the relationship between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contracts defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company from time to time enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) A sensitivity analysis has been prepared to estimate the Companys exposure to market risk of its daily net commodity position. The Companys daily net commodity position consists of inventories, related purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures contracts, including those contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements. The fair value of such daily net commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing each net position at quoted futures prices. Market risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in such prices. Actual results may differ. 2007 2006 Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest long position $ 703 $ 70 $ 510 $ 51 Highest short position 565 57 574 57 Average position long (short) 180 18 (203 ) (20 ) The change in fair value of the average position for 2007 compared to 2006 was principally a result of changes in the daily net commodity position and commodity prices. Marketable Equity Securities Marketable equity securities, which are recorded at fair value, have exposure to price risk. The fair value of marketable equity securities is based on quoted market prices. Risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted market prices. Actual results may differ. 2007 2006 (In millions) Fair value $ 227 $ 640 Market risk 23 64 The decrease in fair value for 2007 compared to 2006 resulted primarily from disposals of securities partially offset by increases in fair market value of certain securities. Limited Partnerships The Company is a limited partner in various private equity funds which invest primarily in emerging markets. The Company accounts for these limited partnerships using the equity method of accounting. Therefore, the Company is recording in the consolidated statement of earnings its proportional share of the limited partnerships net income or loss. The limited partnerships value their investments at fair value. Risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in market prices of the limited partnerships investments. Actual results may differ. 2007 2006 (In millions) Fair value of partnerships investments $ 188 $ 210 Market risk 19 21 The decrease in fair value for 2007 compared to 2006 resulted primarily from returns of capital. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) Currencies In order to reduce the risk of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, except for amounts permanently invested as described below, the Company follows a policy of entering into currency exchange forward contracts to mitigate its foreign currency risk related to transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currencies applicable to each of its various entities. The instruments used are readily marketable exchange traded futures contracts and forward contracts with banks. The changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $5.4 billion at June 30, 2007, and $4.5 billion at June 30, 2006. This increase is due to an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and appreciation of foreign currency exchange rates. The potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $543 million and $454 million for 2007 and 2006, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical .5 % decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2007 2006 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 4,927 $ 4,387 Excess of fair value over carrying value 110 257 Market risk 204 218 The increase in fair value of long term debt in 2007 resulted principally from the Companys issuance of $1.2 billion convertible senior notes partially offset by repayment of $400 million of debentures and other principal payments of long term debt. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Agricultural Services operating profits increased $13 million to $275 million as improved results from transportation operations were partially offset by a decline in global grain merchandising and North American origination operating results. North American river transportation operating results increased primarily due to increased barge freight rates created by strong demand for barge capacity. This increase was partially offset by increased fuel costs. The gulf coast hurricanes negatively impacted North American origination and export activities during the first half of 2006. Other operating profits decreased $104 million to $310 million. Other Food, Feed, and Industrial operating results decreased $104 million due primarily to a $51 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets, a $2 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47, and a $9 million charge representing the Companys share of a charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets reported by an unconsolidated affiliate of the Company. In addition, cocoa processing, natural health and nutrition, and formula feed operating results declined from prior year levels. Cocoa processing operating results declined primarily due to increased industry capacity which caused downward pressure on cocoa finished product prices. Formula feed operating results declined due to costs associated with exiting the European animal feed business. Other Food, Feed, and Industrial operating profits include a $17 million gain from the sale of long lived assets. Other Food, Feed, and Industrial operating results for 2005 include a $13 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Other Financial operating profits are comparable to prior year levels as improvements in the Companys captive insurance operations and futures commission merchant business offset lower valuations of the Companys private equity fund investments. Corporate decreased $171 million due primarily to a $102 million decrease in income from the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations, the $114 million realized securities gain in 2005 from the sale of Tate & Lyle PLC shares, the CIP Gain in 2005, and a $22 million charge in 2006 upon the adoption of SFAS 123(R), partially offset by the aforementioned $19 million reversal of Brazilian transactional taxes and a $97 million reduction in unallocated interest expense. The reduction in unallocated interest expense is due principally to higher levels of invested funds and higher interest rates. Income taxes increased due principally to higher pretax earnings. This increase was partially offset by a $36 million reduction in income tax expense related to the recognition of federal and state income tax credits and adjustments resulting from the reconciliation of filed tax returns to the previously estimated tax provision. The Companys effective tax rate for 2006 was 29.3% as compared to 31.1% for 2005. Excluding the effect of the $36 million tax credit, the Companys effective tax rate was 31.2% for 2006 and, after excluding the effect of the CIP Gain, was 32.1% for 2005. No tax was provided on the CIP Gain in 2005, as CIP is a corporate joint venture of the Company and the proceeds from the sale are permanently reinvested. Excluding the effect of the $36 million tax credit in 2006 and the CIP Gain in 2005, the decrease in the Companys effective tax rate is primarily due to changes in the geographic mix of pretax earnings. Liquidity and Capital Resources The Companys objective is to have sufficient liquidity, balance sheet strength, and financial flexibility to fund the operating and capital requirements of a capital intensive agricultural based commodity business. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) At June 30, 2007, the Company continued to show substantial liquidity with working capital of $7.3 billion and a current ratio, defined as current assets divided by current liabilities, of 1.9 to 1. Included in working capital is $875 million of cash, cash equivalents, and short term marketable securities as well as $4.4 billion of readily marketable commodity inventories. Cash generated from operating activities totaled $303 million for the year compared to $1.4 billion last year. This decrease was primarily due to an increase in working capital requirements principally related to increased prices and quantities of agricultural commodity inventories and increased receivables, partially offset by increased cash earnings. Despite increased investment in property, plant, and equipment, cash used in investing activities decreased $714 million for the year to $355 million due primarily to increased sales of marketable securities and proceeds from sales of businesses including the sale of the Companys equity interests in Tyson Foods, Inc., Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc. and Agricore United. Cash used in financing activities was $398 million compared to cash generated by financing activities of $284 million last year. Net long term borrowings increased primarily as a result of the issuance of $1.2 billion of convertible senior notes in February 2007 (described in detail below), compared to $600 million of 30 year debentures issued in September 2005. This increase was partially offset by $283 million of increased payments on long term debt principally related to the Company retiring $400 million of debentures in 2007. Capital resources were strengthened as shown by the increase in the Companys net worth from $9.8 billion to $11.3 billion. The Companys ratio of long term debt to total capital (the sum of the Companys long term debt and shareholders equity) was 30% at June 30, 2007, and 29% at June 30, 2006. This ratio is a measure of the Companys long term liquidity and is an indicator of financial flexibility. The Company currently has $3.9 billion of commercial paper and commercial bank lines available to meet seasonal cash requirements of which $2.6 billion are committed and $1.3 billion are uncommitted. At June 30, 2007, the Company had $468 million of short term debt outstanding. Standard & Poors, Moodys, and Fitch rate the Companys commercial paper as A 1, P 1, and F1, respectively, and rate the Companys long term debt as A, A2, and A+, respectively. In addition to the cash flow generated from operations, the Company has access to equity and debt capital through numerous alternatives from public and private sources in domestic and international markets. In February 2007, the Company issued $1.2 billion principal amount of convertible senior notes due in 2014 (the Notes) in a private placement. The Notes were issued at par and bear interest at a rate of 0.875% per year, payable semiannually. The Notes are convertible based on an initial conversion rate of 22.8343 shares per $1,000 principal amount of Notes (which is equal to an initial conversion price of approximately $43.79 per share). The Notes may be converted, subject to adjustment, only under the following circumstances: 1) during any calendar quarter beginning after March 31, 2007, if the closing price of the Companys common stock for at least 20 trading days in the 30 consecutive trading days ending on the last trading day of the immediately preceding quarter is more than 140% of the applicable conversion price per share, which is $1,000 divided by the then applicable conversion rate, 2) during the five consecutive business day period immediately after any five consecutive trading day period (the note measurement period) in which the average of the trading price per $1,000 principal amount of Notes was equal to or less than 98% of the average of the product of the closing price of the Companys common stock and the conversion rate at each date during the note measurement period, 3) if the Company makes specified distributions to its common stockholders or specified corporate transactions occur, or 4) at any time on or after January 15, 2014, through the business day preceding the maturity date. Upon conversion, a holder would receive an amount in cash equal to the lesser of 1) $1,000 and 2) the conversion value, as defined. If the conversion value exceeds $1,000, the Company will deliver, at the Companys election, cash or common stock or a combination of cash and common stock for the conversion value in excess of $1,000. If the Notes are converted in connection with a change in control, as defined, the Company may be required to provide a make whole premium in the form of an increase in the conversion rate, subject to a stated maximum amount. In addition, in the event of a change in control, the holders may require the Company to purchase all or a portion of their Notes at a purchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Concurrent with the issuance of the Notes, the Company purchased call options in private transactions at a cost of $299 million. The purchased call options allow the Company to receive shares of its common stock and or cash from the counterparties equal to the amounts of common stock and or cash related to the excess of the current market price of the Companys common stock over the exercise price of the purchased call options. In addition, the Company sold warrants in private transactions to acquire, subject to customary anti dilution adjustments, 26.3 million shares of its common stock at an exercise price of $62.56 per share and received proceeds of $170 million. If the average price of the Companys common stock during a defined period ending on or about the respective settlement dates exceeds the exercise price of the warrants, the warrants will be settled, at the Companys option, in cash or shares of common stock. The purchased call options and warrants are intended to reduce the potential dilution upon future conversions of the Notes by effectively increasing the initial conversion price to $62.56 per share. Upon closing of the sale of the Notes, $370 million of the net proceeds from the Note issuance and the proceeds from the warrant transactions were used to repurchase 10.3 million shares of the Companys common stock under the Companys stock repurchase program. As of June 30, 2007, none of the conditions permitting conversion of the Notes had been satisfied. In addition, as of June 30, 2007, the market price of the Companys common stock was not greater than the exercise price of the purchased call options or warrants. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements In the normal course of business, the Company enters into contracts and commitments which obligate the Company to make payments in the future. The following table sets forth the Companys significant future obligations by time period. Purchases include commodity based contracts entered into in the normal course of business, which are further described in Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, energy related purchase contracts entered into in the normal course of business, and other purchase obligations related to the Companys normal business activities. Where applicable, information included in the Companys consolidated financial statements and notes is cross referenced in this table. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Payments Due by Period Contractual Note Less than 2 3 4 5 Over Obligations Reference Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years (In millions) Purchases Inventories $ 11,113 $ 10,312 $ 535 $ 159 $ 107 Energy 429 269 152 7 1 Other 217 67 94 43 13 Total purchases 11,759 10,648 781 209 121 Short term debt Note 7 468 468 Long term debt Note 7 4,897 65 92 425 4,315 Estimated interest payments 5,752 290 509 474 4,479 Operating leases Note 12 900 318 241 132 209 Estimated pension and other postretirement plan contributions Note 13 1,045 79 173 195 598 Total $ 24,821 $ 11,868 $ 1,796 $ 1,435 $ 9,722 At June 30, 2007, the Company estimates it will spend approximately $3.0 billion over the next four years to complete approved capital projects and acquisitions. The Company is a limited partner in various private equity funds which invest primarily in emerging markets. At June 30, 2007, the Companys carrying value of these limited partnership investments was $165 million. The Company has future capital commitments related to these partnerships of $138 million and expects the majority of these additional capital commitments, if called for, to be funded by cash flows generated by the partnerships. The Company also has outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds of $339 million at June 30, 2007. In addition, the Company has entered into agreements, primarily debt guarantee agreements related to equity method investees, which could obligate the Company to make future payments. The Companys liability under these agreements arises only if the primary entity fails to perform its contractual obligation. The Company has collateral for a portion of these contingent obligations. At June 30, 2007, these contingent obligations totaled approximately $98 million. Amounts outstanding for the primary entity under these contingent obligations were $51 million at June 30, 2007. Critical Accounting Policies The process of preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the carrying values of the Companys assets and liabilities as well as the recognition of revenues and expenses. These estimates and judgments are based on the Companys historical experience and managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Certain of the Companys accounting policies are considered critical, as these policies are important to the depiction of the Companys financial statements and require significant or complex judgment by management. Management has discussed with the Companys Audit Committee the development, selection, disclosure, and application of these critical accounting policies. Following are the accounting policies management considers critical to the Companys financial statements. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Inventories and Derivatives Certain of the Companys merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, forward fixed price purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and options contracts are valued at estimated market values. These merchandisable agricultural commodities are freely traded, have quoted market prices, and may be sold without significant additional processing. Management estimates market value based on exchange quoted prices, adjusted for differences in local markets. Changes in the market values of these inventories and contracts are recognized in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. If management used different methods or factors to estimate market value, amounts reported as inventories and cost of products sold could differ. Additionally, if market conditions change subsequent to year end, amounts reported in future periods as inventories and cost of products sold could differ. The Company, from time to time, uses derivative contracts to fix the purchase price of anticipated volumes of commodities to be purchased and processed in a future month, to fix the purchase price of the Companys anticipated natural gas requirements for certain production facilities, and to fix the sales price of anticipated volumes of ethanol. These derivative contracts are designated as cash flow hedges. The change in the market value of such derivative contracts has historically been, and is expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. If it is determined that the derivative instruments used are no longer effective at offsetting changes in the price of the hedged item, then the changes in the market value of these exchange traded futures contracts would be recorded in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. Employee Benefit Plans The Company provides substantially all domestic employees and employees at certain international subsidiaries with pension benefits. The Company also provides substantially all domestic salaried employees with postretirement health care and life insurance benefits. In order to measure the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans, management makes several estimates and assumptions, including interest rates used to discount certain liabilities, rates of return on assets set aside to fund these plans, rates of compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and anticipated future health care costs. These estimates and assumptions are based on the Companys historical experience combined with managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Management also uses third party specialists to assist in measuring the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans. If management used different estimates and assumptions regarding these plans, the funded status of the plans could vary significantly, and the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Income Taxes The Company frequently faces challenges from domestic and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company records reserves for probable exposures. Deferred tax assets represent items to be used as tax deductions or credits in future tax returns, and the related tax benefit has already been recognized in the Companys income statement. Realization of certain deferred tax assets reflects the Companys tax planning strategies. Valuation allowances related to these deferred tax assets have been established to the extent the realization of the tax benefit is not probable. Based on managements evaluation of the Companys tax position, it is believed the amounts related to these tax exposures are appropriately accrued. To the extent the Company were to favorably resolve matters for which accruals have been established or be required to pay amounts in excess of the aforementioned reserves, the Companys effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be impacted. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and affiliated corporate joint ventures accounted for on the equity method are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by unpredictable factors such as weather, plantings, government (domestic and foreign) farm programs and policies, changes in population growth, changes in standards of living, and production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned unpredictable factors, therefore, may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and profitability of the Companys fixed asset base in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its factories. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment and technology related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. Assets are abandoned after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of this fixed asset base, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Valuation of Marketable Securities and Investments in Affiliates The Company classifies the majority of its marketable securities as available for sale and carries these securities at fair value. Investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings. For publicly traded securities, the fair value of the Companys investments is readily available based on quoted market prices. For non publicly traded securities, managements assessment of fair value is based on valuation methodologies including discounted cash flows and estimates of sales proceeds. In the event of a decline in fair value of an investment below carrying value, management may be required to determine if the decline in fair value is other than temporary. In evaluating the nature of a decline in the fair value of an investment, management considers the market conditions, trends of earnings, discounted cash flows, trading volumes, and other key measures of the investment as well as the Companys ability and intent to hold the investment. When such a decline in value is deemed to be other than temporary, an impairment loss is recognized in the current period operating results to the extent of the decline. See Notes 3 and 5 to the Companys consolidated financial statements for information regarding the Companys marketable securities and investments in affiliates. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these marketable securities, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) The Company is a limited partner in various private equity funds which invest primarily in emerging markets. The Company accounts for these limited partnerships using the equity method of accounting. Therefore, the Company is recording in the consolidated statement of earnings its proportional share of the limited partnerships net income or loss. The limited partnerships value their investments at fair value. Thus, unrealized gains and losses related to the change in fair value of these investments are recorded in the limited partnerships statements of earnings. The valuation of these investments, as determined by the general partner, can be subjective, and the values may vary significantly. Some of the factors causing the subjectivity and volatility of these valuations include the illiquidity and minority positions of these investments, currency exchange rate fluctuations, less regulated securities exchanges, and the inherent business risks and limitations present in the emerging market countries. The Company records the results of these limited partnerships based on the information provided to the Company by the general partner. Due to the subjectivity and volatility in valuing these investments, the fair value of these investments, and thus the Companys results, could vary significantly over future periods. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in commodities futures prices, marketable equity security prices, market prices of limited partnerships investments, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and price of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to unpredictable factors such as weather, plantings, government (domestic and foreign) farm programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. To reduce price risk caused by market fluctuations, the Company generally follows a policy of using exchange traded futures and options contracts to minimize its net position of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories and forward cash purchase and sales contracts. The Company will also use exchange traded futures and options contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the volatility of the relationship between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contracts defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company from time to time enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) A sensitivity analysis has been prepared to estimate the Companys exposure to market risk of its daily net commodity position. The Companys daily net commodity position consists of inventories, related purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures contracts, including those contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements. The fair value of such daily net commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing each net position at quoted futures prices. Market risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in such prices. Actual results may differ. 2007 2006 Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest long position $ 703 $ 70 $ 510 $ 51 Highest short position 565 57 574 57 Average position long (short) 180 18 (203 ) (20 ) The change in fair value of the average position for 2007 compared to 2006 was principally a result of changes in the daily net commodity position and commodity prices. Marketable Equity Securities Marketable equity securities, which are recorded at fair value, have exposure to price risk. The fair value of marketable equity securities is based on quoted market prices. Risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted market prices. Actual results may differ. 2007 2006 (In millions) Fair value $ 227 $ 640 Market risk 23 64 The decrease in fair value for 2007 compared to 2006 resulted primarily from disposals of securities partially offset by increases in fair market value of certain securities. Limited Partnerships The Company is a limited partner in various private equity funds which invest primarily in emerging markets. The Company accounts for these limited partnerships using the equity method of accounting. Therefore, the Company is recording in the consolidated statement of earnings its proportional share of the limited partnerships net income or loss. The limited partnerships value their investments at fair value. Risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in market prices of the limited partnerships investments. Actual results may differ. 2007 2006 (In millions) Fair value of partnerships investments $ 188 $ 210 Market risk 19 21 The decrease in fair value for 2007 compared to 2006 resulted primarily from returns of capital. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) Currencies In order to reduce the risk of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, except for amounts permanently invested as described below, the Company follows a policy of entering into currency exchange forward contracts to mitigate its foreign currency risk related to transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currencies applicable to each of its various entities. The instruments used are readily marketable exchange traded futures contracts and forward contracts with banks. The changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $5.4 billion at June 30, 2007, and $4.5 billion at June 30, 2006. This increase is due to an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and appreciation of foreign currency exchange rates. The potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $543 million and $454 million for 2007 and 2006, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical .5 % decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2007 2006 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 4,927 $ 4,387 Excess of fair value over carrying value 110 257 Market risk 204 218 The increase in fair value of long term debt in 2007 resulted principally from the Companys issuance of $1.2 billion convertible senior notes partially offset by repayment of $400 million of debentures and other principal payments of long term debt. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) At June 30, 2007, the Company continued to show substantial liquidity with working capital of $7.3 billion and a current ratio, defined as current assets divided by current liabilities, of 1.9 to 1. Included in working capital is $875 million of cash, cash equivalents, and short term marketable securities as well as $4.4 billion of readily marketable commodity inventories. Cash generated from operating activities totaled $303 million for the year compared to $1.4 billion last year. This decrease was primarily due to an increase in working capital requirements principally related to increased prices and quantities of agricultural commodity inventories and increased receivables, partially offset by increased cash earnings. Despite increased investment in property, plant, and equipment, cash used in investing activities decreased $714 million for the year to $355 million due primarily to increased sales of marketable securities and proceeds from sales of businesses including the sale of the Companys equity interests in Tyson Foods, Inc., Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc. and Agricore United. Cash used in financing activities was $398 million compared to cash generated by financing activities of $284 million last year. Net long term borrowings increased primarily as a result of the issuance of $1.2 billion of convertible senior notes in February 2007 (described in detail below), compared to $600 million of 30 year debentures issued in September 2005. This increase was partially offset by $283 million of increased payments on long term debt principally related to the Company retiring $400 million of debentures in 2007. Capital resources were strengthened as shown by the increase in the Companys net worth from $9.8 billion to $11.3 billion. The Companys ratio of long term debt to total capital (the sum of the Companys long term debt and shareholders equity) was 30% at June 30, 2007, and 29% at June 30, 2006. This ratio is a measure of the Companys long term liquidity and is an indicator of financial flexibility. The Company currently has $3.9 billion of commercial paper and commercial bank lines available to meet seasonal cash requirements of which $2.6 billion are committed and $1.3 billion are uncommitted. At June 30, 2007, the Company had $468 million of short term debt outstanding. Standard & Poors, Moodys, and Fitch rate the Companys commercial paper as A 1, P 1, and F1, respectively, and rate the Companys long term debt as A, A2, and A+, respectively. In addition to the cash flow generated from operations, the Company has access to equity and debt capital through numerous alternatives from public and private sources in domestic and international markets. In February 2007, the Company issued $1.2 billion principal amount of convertible senior notes due in 2014 (the Notes) in a private placement. The Notes were issued at par and bear interest at a rate of 0.875% per year, payable semiannually. The Notes are convertible based on an initial conversion rate of 22.8343 shares per $1,000 principal amount of Notes (which is equal to an initial conversion price of approximately $43.79 per share). The Notes may be converted, subject to adjustment, only under the following circumstances: 1) during any calendar quarter beginning after March 31, 2007, if the closing price of the Companys common stock for at least 20 trading days in the 30 consecutive trading days ending on the last trading day of the immediately preceding quarter is more than 140% of the applicable conversion price per share, which is $1,000 divided by the then applicable conversion rate, 2) during the five consecutive business day period immediately after any five consecutive trading day period (the note measurement period) in which the average of the trading price per $1,000 principal amount of Notes was equal to or less than 98% of the average of the product of the closing price of the Companys common stock and the conversion rate at each date during the note measurement period, 3) if the Company makes specified distributions to its common stockholders or specified corporate transactions occur, or 4) at any time on or after January 15, 2014, through the business day preceding the maturity date. Upon conversion, a holder would receive an amount in cash equal to the lesser of 1) $1,000 and 2) the conversion value, as defined. If the conversion value exceeds $1,000, the Company will deliver, at the Companys election, cash or common stock or a combination of cash and common stock for the conversion value in excess of $1,000. If the Notes are converted in connection with a change in control, as defined, the Company may be required to provide a make whole premium in the form of an increase in the conversion rate, subject to a stated maximum amount. In addition, in the event of a change in control, the holders may require the Company to purchase all or a portion of their Notes at a purchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Concurrent with the issuance of the Notes, the Company purchased call options in private transactions at a cost of $299 million. The purchased call options allow the Company to receive shares of its common stock and or cash from the counterparties equal to the amounts of common stock and or cash related to the excess of the current market price of the Companys common stock over the exercise price of the purchased call options. In addition, the Company sold warrants in private transactions to acquire, subject to customary anti dilution adjustments, 26.3 million shares of its common stock at an exercise price of $62.56 per share and received proceeds of $170 million. If the average price of the Companys common stock during a defined period ending on or about the respective settlement dates exceeds the exercise price of the warrants, the warrants will be settled, at the Companys option, in cash or shares of common stock. The purchased call options and warrants are intended to reduce the potential dilution upon future conversions of the Notes by effectively increasing the initial conversion price to $62.56 per share. Upon closing of the sale of the Notes, $370 million of the net proceeds from the Note issuance and the proceeds from the warrant transactions were used to repurchase 10.3 million shares of the Companys common stock under the Companys stock repurchase program. As of June 30, 2007, none of the conditions permitting conversion of the Notes had been satisfied. In addition, as of June 30, 2007, the market price of the Companys common stock was not greater than the exercise price of the purchased call options or warrants. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements In the normal course of business, the Company enters into contracts and commitments which obligate the Company to make payments in the future. The following table sets forth the Companys significant future obligations by time period. Purchases include commodity based contracts entered into in the normal course of business, which are further described in Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, energy related purchase contracts entered into in the normal course of business, and other purchase obligations related to the Companys normal business activities. Where applicable, information included in the Companys consolidated financial statements and notes is cross referenced in this table. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Payments Due by Period Contractual Note Less than 2 3 4 5 Over Obligations Reference Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years (In millions) Purchases Inventories $ 11,113 $ 10,312 $ 535 $ 159 $ 107 Energy 429 269 152 7 1 Other 217 67 94 43 13 Total purchases 11,759 10,648 781 209 121 Short term debt Note 7 468 468 Long term debt Note 7 4,897 65 92 425 4,315 Estimated interest payments 5,752 290 509 474 4,479 Operating leases Note 12 900 318 241 132 209 Estimated pension and other postretirement plan contributions Note 13 1,045 79 173 195 598 Total $ 24,821 $ 11,868 $ 1,796 $ 1,435 $ 9,722 At June 30, 2007, the Company estimates it will spend approximately $3.0 billion over the next four years to complete approved capital projects and acquisitions. The Company is a limited partner in various private equity funds which invest primarily in emerging markets. At June 30, 2007, the Companys carrying value of these limited partnership investments was $165 million. The Company has future capital commitments related to these partnerships of $138 million and expects the majority of these additional capital commitments, if called for, to be funded by cash flows generated by the partnerships. The Company also has outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds of $339 million at June 30, 2007. In addition, the Company has entered into agreements, primarily debt guarantee agreements related to equity method investees, which could obligate the Company to make future payments. The Companys liability under these agreements arises only if the primary entity fails to perform its contractual obligation. The Company has collateral for a portion of these contingent obligations. At June 30, 2007, these contingent obligations totaled approximately $98 million. Amounts outstanding for the primary entity under these contingent obligations were $51 million at June 30, 2007. Critical Accounting Policies The process of preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the carrying values of the Companys assets and liabilities as well as the recognition of revenues and expenses. These estimates and judgments are based on the Companys historical experience and managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Certain of the Companys accounting policies are considered critical, as these policies are important to the depiction of the Companys financial statements and require significant or complex judgment by management. Management has discussed with the Companys Audit Committee the development, selection, disclosure, and application of these critical accounting policies. Following are the accounting policies management considers critical to the Companys financial statements. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Inventories and Derivatives Certain of the Companys merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, forward fixed price purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and options contracts are valued at estimated market values. These merchandisable agricultural commodities are freely traded, have quoted market prices, and may be sold without significant additional processing. Management estimates market value based on exchange quoted prices, adjusted for differences in local markets. Changes in the market values of these inventories and contracts are recognized in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. If management used different methods or factors to estimate market value, amounts reported as inventories and cost of products sold could differ. Additionally, if market conditions change subsequent to year end, amounts reported in future periods as inventories and cost of products sold could differ. The Company, from time to time, uses derivative contracts to fix the purchase price of anticipated volumes of commodities to be purchased and processed in a future month, to fix the purchase price of the Companys anticipated natural gas requirements for certain production facilities, and to fix the sales price of anticipated volumes of ethanol. These derivative contracts are designated as cash flow hedges. The change in the market value of such derivative contracts has historically been, and is expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. If it is determined that the derivative instruments used are no longer effective at offsetting changes in the price of the hedged item, then the changes in the market value of these exchange traded futures contracts would be recorded in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. Employee Benefit Plans The Company provides substantially all domestic employees and employees at certain international subsidiaries with pension benefits. The Company also provides substantially all domestic salaried employees with postretirement health care and life insurance benefits. In order to measure the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans, management makes several estimates and assumptions, including interest rates used to discount certain liabilities, rates of return on assets set aside to fund these plans, rates of compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and anticipated future health care costs. These estimates and assumptions are based on the Companys historical experience combined with managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Management also uses third party specialists to assist in measuring the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans. If management used different estimates and assumptions regarding these plans, the funded status of the plans could vary significantly, and the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Income Taxes The Company frequently faces challenges from domestic and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company records reserves for probable exposures. Deferred tax assets represent items to be used as tax deductions or credits in future tax returns, and the related tax benefit has already been recognized in the Companys income statement. Realization of certain deferred tax assets reflects the Companys tax planning strategies. Valuation allowances related to these deferred tax assets have been established to the extent the realization of the tax benefit is not probable. Based on managements evaluation of the Companys tax position, it is believed the amounts related to these tax exposures are appropriately accrued. To the extent the Company were to favorably resolve matters for which accruals have been established or be required to pay amounts in excess of the aforementioned reserves, the Companys effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be impacted. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and affiliated corporate joint ventures accounted for on the equity method are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by unpredictable factors such as weather, plantings, government (domestic and foreign) farm programs and policies, changes in population growth, changes in standards of living, and production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned unpredictable factors, therefore, may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and profitability of the Companys fixed asset base in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its factories. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment and technology related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. Assets are abandoned after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of this fixed asset base, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Valuation of Marketable Securities and Investments in Affiliates The Company classifies the majority of its marketable securities as available for sale and carries these securities at fair value. Investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings. For publicly traded securities, the fair value of the Companys investments is readily available based on quoted market prices. For non publicly traded securities, managements assessment of fair value is based on valuation methodologies including discounted cash flows and estimates of sales proceeds. In the event of a decline in fair value of an investment below carrying value, management may be required to determine if the decline in fair value is other than temporary. In evaluating the nature of a decline in the fair value of an investment, management considers the market conditions, trends of earnings, discounted cash flows, trading volumes, and other key measures of the investment as well as the Companys ability and intent to hold the investment. When such a decline in value is deemed to be other than temporary, an impairment loss is recognized in the current period operating results to the extent of the decline. See Notes 3 and 5 to the Companys consolidated financial statements for information regarding the Companys marketable securities and investments in affiliates. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these marketable securities, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) The Company is a limited partner in various private equity funds which invest primarily in emerging markets. The Company accounts for these limited partnerships using the equity method of accounting. Therefore, the Company is recording in the consolidated statement of earnings its proportional share of the limited partnerships net income or loss. The limited partnerships value their investments at fair value. Thus, unrealized gains and losses related to the change in fair value of these investments are recorded in the limited partnerships statements of earnings. The valuation of these investments, as determined by the general partner, can be subjective, and the values may vary significantly. Some of the factors causing the subjectivity and volatility of these valuations include the illiquidity and minority positions of these investments, currency exchange rate fluctuations, less regulated securities exchanges, and the inherent business risks and limitations present in the emerging market countries. The Company records the results of these limited partnerships based on the information provided to the Company by the general partner. Due to the subjectivity and volatility in valuing these investments, the fair value of these investments, and thus the Companys results, could vary significantly over future periods. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in commodities futures prices, marketable equity security prices, market prices of limited partnerships investments, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and price of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to unpredictable factors such as weather, plantings, government (domestic and foreign) farm programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. To reduce price risk caused by market fluctuations, the Company generally follows a policy of using exchange traded futures and options contracts to minimize its net position of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories and forward cash purchase and sales contracts. The Company will also use exchange traded futures and options contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the volatility of the relationship between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contracts defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company from time to time enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) A sensitivity analysis has been prepared to estimate the Companys exposure to market risk of its daily net commodity position. The Companys daily net commodity position consists of inventories, related purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures contracts, including those contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements. The fair value of such daily net commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing each net position at quoted futures prices. Market risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in such prices. Actual results may differ. 2007 2006 Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest long position $ 703 $ 70 $ 510 $ 51 Highest short position 565 57 574 57 Average position long (short) 180 18 (203 ) (20 ) The change in fair value of the average position for 2007 compared to 2006 was principally a result of changes in the daily net commodity position and commodity prices. Marketable Equity Securities Marketable equity securities, which are recorded at fair value, have exposure to price risk. The fair value of marketable equity securities is based on quoted market prices. Risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted market prices. Actual results may differ. 2007 2006 (In millions) Fair value $ 227 $ 640 Market risk 23 64 The decrease in fair value for 2007 compared to 2006 resulted primarily from disposals of securities partially offset by increases in fair market value of certain securities. Limited Partnerships The Company is a limited partner in various private equity funds which invest primarily in emerging markets. The Company accounts for these limited partnerships using the equity method of accounting. Therefore, the Company is recording in the consolidated statement of earnings its proportional share of the limited partnerships net income or loss. The limited partnerships value their investments at fair value. Risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in market prices of the limited partnerships investments. Actual results may differ. 2007 2006 (In millions) Fair value of partnerships investments $ 188 $ 210 Market risk 19 21 The decrease in fair value for 2007 compared to 2006 resulted primarily from returns of capital. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) Currencies In order to reduce the risk of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, except for amounts permanently invested as described below, the Company follows a policy of entering into currency exchange forward contracts to mitigate its foreign currency risk related to transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currencies applicable to each of its various entities. The instruments used are readily marketable exchange traded futures contracts and forward contracts with banks. The changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $5.4 billion at June 30, 2007, and $4.5 billion at June 30, 2006. This increase is due to an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and appreciation of foreign currency exchange rates. The potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $543 million and $454 million for 2007 and 2006, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical .5 % decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2007 2006 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 4,927 $ 4,387 Excess of fair value over carrying value 110 257 Market risk 204 218 The increase in fair value of long term debt in 2007 resulted principally from the Companys issuance of $1.2 billion convertible senior notes partially offset by repayment of $400 million of debentures and other principal payments of long term debt. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Concurrent with the issuance of the Notes, the Company purchased call options in private transactions at a cost of $299 million. The purchased call options allow the Company to receive shares of its common stock and or cash from the counterparties equal to the amounts of common stock and or cash related to the excess of the current market price of the Companys common stock over the exercise price of the purchased call options. In addition, the Company sold warrants in private transactions to acquire, subject to customary anti dilution adjustments, 26.3 million shares of its common stock at an exercise price of $62.56 per share and received proceeds of $170 million. If the average price of the Companys common stock during a defined period ending on or about the respective settlement dates exceeds the exercise price of the warrants, the warrants will be settled, at the Companys option, in cash or shares of common stock. The purchased call options and warrants are intended to reduce the potential dilution upon future conversions of the Notes by effectively increasing the initial conversion price to $62.56 per share. Upon closing of the sale of the Notes, $370 million of the net proceeds from the Note issuance and the proceeds from the warrant transactions were used to repurchase 10.3 million shares of the Companys common stock under the Companys stock repurchase program. As of June 30, 2007, none of the conditions permitting conversion of the Notes had been satisfied. In addition, as of June 30, 2007, the market price of the Companys common stock was not greater than the exercise price of the purchased call options or warrants. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements In the normal course of business, the Company enters into contracts and commitments which obligate the Company to make payments in the future. The following table sets forth the Companys significant future obligations by time period. Purchases include commodity based contracts entered into in the normal course of business, which are further described in Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, energy related purchase contracts entered into in the normal course of business, and other purchase obligations related to the Companys normal business activities. Where applicable, information included in the Companys consolidated financial statements and notes is cross referenced in this table. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Payments Due by Period Contractual Note Less than 2 3 4 5 Over Obligations Reference Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years (In millions) Purchases Inventories $ 11,113 $ 10,312 $ 535 $ 159 $ 107 Energy 429 269 152 7 1 Other 217 67 94 43 13 Total purchases 11,759 10,648 781 209 121 Short term debt Note 7 468 468 Long term debt Note 7 4,897 65 92 425 4,315 Estimated interest payments 5,752 290 509 474 4,479 Operating leases Note 12 900 318 241 132 209 Estimated pension and other postretirement plan contributions Note 13 1,045 79 173 195 598 Total $ 24,821 $ 11,868 $ 1,796 $ 1,435 $ 9,722 At June 30, 2007, the Company estimates it will spend approximately $3.0 billion over the next four years to complete approved capital projects and acquisitions. The Company is a limited partner in various private equity funds which invest primarily in emerging markets. At June 30, 2007, the Companys carrying value of these limited partnership investments was $165 million. The Company has future capital commitments related to these partnerships of $138 million and expects the majority of these additional capital commitments, if called for, to be funded by cash flows generated by the partnerships. The Company also has outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds of $339 million at June 30, 2007. In addition, the Company has entered into agreements, primarily debt guarantee agreements related to equity method investees, which could obligate the Company to make future payments. The Companys liability under these agreements arises only if the primary entity fails to perform its contractual obligation. The Company has collateral for a portion of these contingent obligations. At June 30, 2007, these contingent obligations totaled approximately $98 million. Amounts outstanding for the primary entity under these contingent obligations were $51 million at June 30, 2007. Critical Accounting Policies The process of preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the carrying values of the Companys assets and liabilities as well as the recognition of revenues and expenses. These estimates and judgments are based on the Companys historical experience and managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Certain of the Companys accounting policies are considered critical, as these policies are important to the depiction of the Companys financial statements and require significant or complex judgment by management. Management has discussed with the Companys Audit Committee the development, selection, disclosure, and application of these critical accounting policies. Following are the accounting policies management considers critical to the Companys financial statements. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Inventories and Derivatives Certain of the Companys merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, forward fixed price purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and options contracts are valued at estimated market values. These merchandisable agricultural commodities are freely traded, have quoted market prices, and may be sold without significant additional processing. Management estimates market value based on exchange quoted prices, adjusted for differences in local markets. Changes in the market values of these inventories and contracts are recognized in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. If management used different methods or factors to estimate market value, amounts reported as inventories and cost of products sold could differ. Additionally, if market conditions change subsequent to year end, amounts reported in future periods as inventories and cost of products sold could differ. The Company, from time to time, uses derivative contracts to fix the purchase price of anticipated volumes of commodities to be purchased and processed in a future month, to fix the purchase price of the Companys anticipated natural gas requirements for certain production facilities, and to fix the sales price of anticipated volumes of ethanol. These derivative contracts are designated as cash flow hedges. The change in the market value of such derivative contracts has historically been, and is expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. If it is determined that the derivative instruments used are no longer effective at offsetting changes in the price of the hedged item, then the changes in the market value of these exchange traded futures contracts would be recorded in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. Employee Benefit Plans The Company provides substantially all domestic employees and employees at certain international subsidiaries with pension benefits. The Company also provides substantially all domestic salaried employees with postretirement health care and life insurance benefits. In order to measure the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans, management makes several estimates and assumptions, including interest rates used to discount certain liabilities, rates of return on assets set aside to fund these plans, rates of compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and anticipated future health care costs. These estimates and assumptions are based on the Companys historical experience combined with managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Management also uses third party specialists to assist in measuring the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans. If management used different estimates and assumptions regarding these plans, the funded status of the plans could vary significantly, and the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Income Taxes The Company frequently faces challenges from domestic and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company records reserves for probable exposures. Deferred tax assets represent items to be used as tax deductions or credits in future tax returns, and the related tax benefit has already been recognized in the Companys income statement. Realization of certain deferred tax assets reflects the Companys tax planning strategies. Valuation allowances related to these deferred tax assets have been established to the extent the realization of the tax benefit is not probable. Based on managements evaluation of the Companys tax position, it is believed the amounts related to these tax exposures are appropriately accrued. To the extent the Company were to favorably resolve matters for which accruals have been established or be required to pay amounts in excess of the aforementioned reserves, the Companys effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be impacted. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and affiliated corporate joint ventures accounted for on the equity method are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by unpredictable factors such as weather, plantings, government (domestic and foreign) farm programs and policies, changes in population growth, changes in standards of living, and production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned unpredictable factors, therefore, may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and profitability of the Companys fixed asset base in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its factories. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment and technology related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. Assets are abandoned after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of this fixed asset base, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Valuation of Marketable Securities and Investments in Affiliates The Company classifies the majority of its marketable securities as available for sale and carries these securities at fair value. Investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings. For publicly traded securities, the fair value of the Companys investments is readily available based on quoted market prices. For non publicly traded securities, managements assessment of fair value is based on valuation methodologies including discounted cash flows and estimates of sales proceeds. In the event of a decline in fair value of an investment below carrying value, management may be required to determine if the decline in fair value is other than temporary. In evaluating the nature of a decline in the fair value of an investment, management considers the market conditions, trends of earnings, discounted cash flows, trading volumes, and other key measures of the investment as well as the Companys ability and intent to hold the investment. When such a decline in value is deemed to be other than temporary, an impairment loss is recognized in the current period operating results to the extent of the decline. See Notes 3 and 5 to the Companys consolidated financial statements for information regarding the Companys marketable securities and investments in affiliates. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these marketable securities, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) The Company is a limited partner in various private equity funds which invest primarily in emerging markets. The Company accounts for these limited partnerships using the equity method of accounting. Therefore, the Company is recording in the consolidated statement of earnings its proportional share of the limited partnerships net income or loss. The limited partnerships value their investments at fair value. Thus, unrealized gains and losses related to the change in fair value of these investments are recorded in the limited partnerships statements of earnings. The valuation of these investments, as determined by the general partner, can be subjective, and the values may vary significantly. Some of the factors causing the subjectivity and volatility of these valuations include the illiquidity and minority positions of these investments, currency exchange rate fluctuations, less regulated securities exchanges, and the inherent business risks and limitations present in the emerging market countries. The Company records the results of these limited partnerships based on the information provided to the Company by the general partner. Due to the subjectivity and volatility in valuing these investments, the fair value of these investments, and thus the Companys results, could vary significantly over future periods. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in commodities futures prices, marketable equity security prices, market prices of limited partnerships investments, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and price of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to unpredictable factors such as weather, plantings, government (domestic and foreign) farm programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. To reduce price risk caused by market fluctuations, the Company generally follows a policy of using exchange traded futures and options contracts to minimize its net position of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories and forward cash purchase and sales contracts. The Company will also use exchange traded futures and options contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the volatility of the relationship between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contracts defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company from time to time enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) A sensitivity analysis has been prepared to estimate the Companys exposure to market risk of its daily net commodity position. The Companys daily net commodity position consists of inventories, related purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures contracts, including those contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements. The fair value of such daily net commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing each net position at quoted futures prices. Market risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in such prices. Actual results may differ. 2007 2006 Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest long position $ 703 $ 70 $ 510 $ 51 Highest short position 565 57 574 57 Average position long (short) 180 18 (203 ) (20 ) The change in fair value of the average position for 2007 compared to 2006 was principally a result of changes in the daily net commodity position and commodity prices. Marketable Equity Securities Marketable equity securities, which are recorded at fair value, have exposure to price risk. The fair value of marketable equity securities is based on quoted market prices. Risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted market prices. Actual results may differ. 2007 2006 (In millions) Fair value $ 227 $ 640 Market risk 23 64 The decrease in fair value for 2007 compared to 2006 resulted primarily from disposals of securities partially offset by increases in fair market value of certain securities. Limited Partnerships The Company is a limited partner in various private equity funds which invest primarily in emerging markets. The Company accounts for these limited partnerships using the equity method of accounting. Therefore, the Company is recording in the consolidated statement of earnings its proportional share of the limited partnerships net income or loss. The limited partnerships value their investments at fair value. Risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in market prices of the limited partnerships investments. Actual results may differ. 2007 2006 (In millions) Fair value of partnerships investments $ 188 $ 210 Market risk 19 21 The decrease in fair value for 2007 compared to 2006 resulted primarily from returns of capital. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) Currencies In order to reduce the risk of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, except for amounts permanently invested as described below, the Company follows a policy of entering into currency exchange forward contracts to mitigate its foreign currency risk related to transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currencies applicable to each of its various entities. The instruments used are readily marketable exchange traded futures contracts and forward contracts with banks. The changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $5.4 billion at June 30, 2007, and $4.5 billion at June 30, 2006. This increase is due to an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and appreciation of foreign currency exchange rates. The potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $543 million and $454 million for 2007 and 2006, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical .5 % decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2007 2006 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 4,927 $ 4,387 Excess of fair value over carrying value 110 257 Market risk 204 218 The increase in fair value of long term debt in 2007 resulted principally from the Companys issuance of $1.2 billion convertible senior notes partially offset by repayment of $400 million of debentures and other principal payments of long term debt. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Payments Due by Period Contractual Note Less than 2 3 4 5 Over Obligations Reference Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years (In millions) Purchases Inventories $ 11,113 $ 10,312 $ 535 $ 159 $ 107 Energy 429 269 152 7 1 Other 217 67 94 43 13 Total purchases 11,759 10,648 781 209 121 Short term debt Note 7 468 468 Long term debt Note 7 4,897 65 92 425 4,315 Estimated interest payments 5,752 290 509 474 4,479 Operating leases Note 12 900 318 241 132 209 Estimated pension and other postretirement plan contributions Note 13 1,045 79 173 195 598 Total $ 24,821 $ 11,868 $ 1,796 $ 1,435 $ 9,722 At June 30, 2007, the Company estimates it will spend approximately $3.0 billion over the next four years to complete approved capital projects and acquisitions. The Company is a limited partner in various private equity funds which invest primarily in emerging markets. At June 30, 2007, the Companys carrying value of these limited partnership investments was $165 million. The Company has future capital commitments related to these partnerships of $138 million and expects the majority of these additional capital commitments, if called for, to be funded by cash flows generated by the partnerships. The Company also has outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds of $339 million at June 30, 2007. In addition, the Company has entered into agreements, primarily debt guarantee agreements related to equity method investees, which could obligate the Company to make future payments. The Companys liability under these agreements arises only if the primary entity fails to perform its contractual obligation. The Company has collateral for a portion of these contingent obligations. At June 30, 2007, these contingent obligations totaled approximately $98 million. Amounts outstanding for the primary entity under these contingent obligations were $51 million at June 30, 2007. Critical Accounting Policies The process of preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the carrying values of the Companys assets and liabilities as well as the recognition of revenues and expenses. These estimates and judgments are based on the Companys historical experience and managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Certain of the Companys accounting policies are considered critical, as these policies are important to the depiction of the Companys financial statements and require significant or complex judgment by management. Management has discussed with the Companys Audit Committee the development, selection, disclosure, and application of these critical accounting policies. Following are the accounting policies management considers critical to the Companys financial statements. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Inventories and Derivatives Certain of the Companys merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, forward fixed price purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and options contracts are valued at estimated market values. These merchandisable agricultural commodities are freely traded, have quoted market prices, and may be sold without significant additional processing. Management estimates market value based on exchange quoted prices, adjusted for differences in local markets. Changes in the market values of these inventories and contracts are recognized in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. If management used different methods or factors to estimate market value, amounts reported as inventories and cost of products sold could differ. Additionally, if market conditions change subsequent to year end, amounts reported in future periods as inventories and cost of products sold could differ. The Company, from time to time, uses derivative contracts to fix the purchase price of anticipated volumes of commodities to be purchased and processed in a future month, to fix the purchase price of the Companys anticipated natural gas requirements for certain production facilities, and to fix the sales price of anticipated volumes of ethanol. These derivative contracts are designated as cash flow hedges. The change in the market value of such derivative contracts has historically been, and is expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. If it is determined that the derivative instruments used are no longer effective at offsetting changes in the price of the hedged item, then the changes in the market value of these exchange traded futures contracts would be recorded in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. Employee Benefit Plans The Company provides substantially all domestic employees and employees at certain international subsidiaries with pension benefits. The Company also provides substantially all domestic salaried employees with postretirement health care and life insurance benefits. In order to measure the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans, management makes several estimates and assumptions, including interest rates used to discount certain liabilities, rates of return on assets set aside to fund these plans, rates of compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and anticipated future health care costs. These estimates and assumptions are based on the Companys historical experience combined with managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Management also uses third party specialists to assist in measuring the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans. If management used different estimates and assumptions regarding these plans, the funded status of the plans could vary significantly, and the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Income Taxes The Company frequently faces challenges from domestic and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company records reserves for probable exposures. Deferred tax assets represent items to be used as tax deductions or credits in future tax returns, and the related tax benefit has already been recognized in the Companys income statement. Realization of certain deferred tax assets reflects the Companys tax planning strategies. Valuation allowances related to these deferred tax assets have been established to the extent the realization of the tax benefit is not probable. Based on managements evaluation of the Companys tax position, it is believed the amounts related to these tax exposures are appropriately accrued. To the extent the Company were to favorably resolve matters for which accruals have been established or be required to pay amounts in excess of the aforementioned reserves, the Companys effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be impacted. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and affiliated corporate joint ventures accounted for on the equity method are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by unpredictable factors such as weather, plantings, government (domestic and foreign) farm programs and policies, changes in population growth, changes in standards of living, and production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned unpredictable factors, therefore, may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and profitability of the Companys fixed asset base in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its factories. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment and technology related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. Assets are abandoned after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of this fixed asset base, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Valuation of Marketable Securities and Investments in Affiliates The Company classifies the majority of its marketable securities as available for sale and carries these securities at fair value. Investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings. For publicly traded securities, the fair value of the Companys investments is readily available based on quoted market prices. For non publicly traded securities, managements assessment of fair value is based on valuation methodologies including discounted cash flows and estimates of sales proceeds. In the event of a decline in fair value of an investment below carrying value, management may be required to determine if the decline in fair value is other than temporary. In evaluating the nature of a decline in the fair value of an investment, management considers the market conditions, trends of earnings, discounted cash flows, trading volumes, and other key measures of the investment as well as the Companys ability and intent to hold the investment. When such a decline in value is deemed to be other than temporary, an impairment loss is recognized in the current period operating results to the extent of the decline. See Notes 3 and 5 to the Companys consolidated financial statements for information regarding the Companys marketable securities and investments in affiliates. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these marketable securities, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) The Company is a limited partner in various private equity funds which invest primarily in emerging markets. The Company accounts for these limited partnerships using the equity method of accounting. Therefore, the Company is recording in the consolidated statement of earnings its proportional share of the limited partnerships net income or loss. The limited partnerships value their investments at fair value. Thus, unrealized gains and losses related to the change in fair value of these investments are recorded in the limited partnerships statements of earnings. The valuation of these investments, as determined by the general partner, can be subjective, and the values may vary significantly. Some of the factors causing the subjectivity and volatility of these valuations include the illiquidity and minority positions of these investments, currency exchange rate fluctuations, less regulated securities exchanges, and the inherent business risks and limitations present in the emerging market countries. The Company records the results of these limited partnerships based on the information provided to the Company by the general partner. Due to the subjectivity and volatility in valuing these investments, the fair value of these investments, and thus the Companys results, could vary significantly over future periods. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in commodities futures prices, marketable equity security prices, market prices of limited partnerships investments, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and price of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to unpredictable factors such as weather, plantings, government (domestic and foreign) farm programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. To reduce price risk caused by market fluctuations, the Company generally follows a policy of using exchange traded futures and options contracts to minimize its net position of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories and forward cash purchase and sales contracts. The Company will also use exchange traded futures and options contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the volatility of the relationship between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contracts defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company from time to time enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) A sensitivity analysis has been prepared to estimate the Companys exposure to market risk of its daily net commodity position. The Companys daily net commodity position consists of inventories, related purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures contracts, including those contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements. The fair value of such daily net commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing each net position at quoted futures prices. Market risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in such prices. Actual results may differ. 2007 2006 Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest long position $ 703 $ 70 $ 510 $ 51 Highest short position 565 57 574 57 Average position long (short) 180 18 (203 ) (20 ) The change in fair value of the average position for 2007 compared to 2006 was principally a result of changes in the daily net commodity position and commodity prices. Marketable Equity Securities Marketable equity securities, which are recorded at fair value, have exposure to price risk. The fair value of marketable equity securities is based on quoted market prices. Risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted market prices. Actual results may differ. 2007 2006 (In millions) Fair value $ 227 $ 640 Market risk 23 64 The decrease in fair value for 2007 compared to 2006 resulted primarily from disposals of securities partially offset by increases in fair market value of certain securities. Limited Partnerships The Company is a limited partner in various private equity funds which invest primarily in emerging markets. The Company accounts for these limited partnerships using the equity method of accounting. Therefore, the Company is recording in the consolidated statement of earnings its proportional share of the limited partnerships net income or loss. The limited partnerships value their investments at fair value. Risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in market prices of the limited partnerships investments. Actual results may differ. 2007 2006 (In millions) Fair value of partnerships investments $ 188 $ 210 Market risk 19 21 The decrease in fair value for 2007 compared to 2006 resulted primarily from returns of capital. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) Currencies In order to reduce the risk of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, except for amounts permanently invested as described below, the Company follows a policy of entering into currency exchange forward contracts to mitigate its foreign currency risk related to transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currencies applicable to each of its various entities. The instruments used are readily marketable exchange traded futures contracts and forward contracts with banks. The changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $5.4 billion at June 30, 2007, and $4.5 billion at June 30, 2006. This increase is due to an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and appreciation of foreign currency exchange rates. The potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $543 million and $454 million for 2007 and 2006, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical .5 % decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2007 2006 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 4,927 $ 4,387 Excess of fair value over carrying value 110 257 Market risk 204 218 The increase in fair value of long term debt in 2007 resulted principally from the Companys issuance of $1.2 billion convertible senior notes partially offset by repayment of $400 million of debentures and other principal payments of long term debt. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Inventories and Derivatives Certain of the Companys merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, forward fixed price purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and options contracts are valued at estimated market values. These merchandisable agricultural commodities are freely traded, have quoted market prices, and may be sold without significant additional processing. Management estimates market value based on exchange quoted prices, adjusted for differences in local markets. Changes in the market values of these inventories and contracts are recognized in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. If management used different methods or factors to estimate market value, amounts reported as inventories and cost of products sold could differ. Additionally, if market conditions change subsequent to year end, amounts reported in future periods as inventories and cost of products sold could differ. The Company, from time to time, uses derivative contracts to fix the purchase price of anticipated volumes of commodities to be purchased and processed in a future month, to fix the purchase price of the Companys anticipated natural gas requirements for certain production facilities, and to fix the sales price of anticipated volumes of ethanol. These derivative contracts are designated as cash flow hedges. The change in the market value of such derivative contracts has historically been, and is expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. If it is determined that the derivative instruments used are no longer effective at offsetting changes in the price of the hedged item, then the changes in the market value of these exchange traded futures contracts would be recorded in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. Employee Benefit Plans The Company provides substantially all domestic employees and employees at certain international subsidiaries with pension benefits. The Company also provides substantially all domestic salaried employees with postretirement health care and life insurance benefits. In order to measure the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans, management makes several estimates and assumptions, including interest rates used to discount certain liabilities, rates of return on assets set aside to fund these plans, rates of compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and anticipated future health care costs. These estimates and assumptions are based on the Companys historical experience combined with managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Management also uses third party specialists to assist in measuring the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans. If management used different estimates and assumptions regarding these plans, the funded status of the plans could vary significantly, and the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Income Taxes The Company frequently faces challenges from domestic and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company records reserves for probable exposures. Deferred tax assets represent items to be used as tax deductions or credits in future tax returns, and the related tax benefit has already been recognized in the Companys income statement. Realization of certain deferred tax assets reflects the Companys tax planning strategies. Valuation allowances related to these deferred tax assets have been established to the extent the realization of the tax benefit is not probable. Based on managements evaluation of the Companys tax position, it is believed the amounts related to these tax exposures are appropriately accrued. To the extent the Company were to favorably resolve matters for which accruals have been established or be required to pay amounts in excess of the aforementioned reserves, the Companys effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be impacted. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and affiliated corporate joint ventures accounted for on the equity method are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by unpredictable factors such as weather, plantings, government (domestic and foreign) farm programs and policies, changes in population growth, changes in standards of living, and production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned unpredictable factors, therefore, may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and profitability of the Companys fixed asset base in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its factories. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment and technology related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. Assets are abandoned after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of this fixed asset base, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Valuation of Marketable Securities and Investments in Affiliates The Company classifies the majority of its marketable securities as available for sale and carries these securities at fair value. Investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings. For publicly traded securities, the fair value of the Companys investments is readily available based on quoted market prices. For non publicly traded securities, managements assessment of fair value is based on valuation methodologies including discounted cash flows and estimates of sales proceeds. In the event of a decline in fair value of an investment below carrying value, management may be required to determine if the decline in fair value is other than temporary. In evaluating the nature of a decline in the fair value of an investment, management considers the market conditions, trends of earnings, discounted cash flows, trading volumes, and other key measures of the investment as well as the Companys ability and intent to hold the investment. When such a decline in value is deemed to be other than temporary, an impairment loss is recognized in the current period operating results to the extent of the decline. See Notes 3 and 5 to the Companys consolidated financial statements for information regarding the Companys marketable securities and investments in affiliates. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these marketable securities, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) The Company is a limited partner in various private equity funds which invest primarily in emerging markets. The Company accounts for these limited partnerships using the equity method of accounting. Therefore, the Company is recording in the consolidated statement of earnings its proportional share of the limited partnerships net income or loss. The limited partnerships value their investments at fair value. Thus, unrealized gains and losses related to the change in fair value of these investments are recorded in the limited partnerships statements of earnings. The valuation of these investments, as determined by the general partner, can be subjective, and the values may vary significantly. Some of the factors causing the subjectivity and volatility of these valuations include the illiquidity and minority positions of these investments, currency exchange rate fluctuations, less regulated securities exchanges, and the inherent business risks and limitations present in the emerging market countries. The Company records the results of these limited partnerships based on the information provided to the Company by the general partner. Due to the subjectivity and volatility in valuing these investments, the fair value of these investments, and thus the Companys results, could vary significantly over future periods. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in commodities futures prices, marketable equity security prices, market prices of limited partnerships investments, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and price of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to unpredictable factors such as weather, plantings, government (domestic and foreign) farm programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. To reduce price risk caused by market fluctuations, the Company generally follows a policy of using exchange traded futures and options contracts to minimize its net position of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories and forward cash purchase and sales contracts. The Company will also use exchange traded futures and options contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the volatility of the relationship between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contracts defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company from time to time enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) A sensitivity analysis has been prepared to estimate the Companys exposure to market risk of its daily net commodity position. The Companys daily net commodity position consists of inventories, related purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures contracts, including those contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements. The fair value of such daily net commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing each net position at quoted futures prices. Market risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in such prices. Actual results may differ. 2007 2006 Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest long position $ 703 $ 70 $ 510 $ 51 Highest short position 565 57 574 57 Average position long (short) 180 18 (203 ) (20 ) The change in fair value of the average position for 2007 compared to 2006 was principally a result of changes in the daily net commodity position and commodity prices. Marketable Equity Securities Marketable equity securities, which are recorded at fair value, have exposure to price risk. The fair value of marketable equity securities is based on quoted market prices. Risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted market prices. Actual results may differ. 2007 2006 (In millions) Fair value $ 227 $ 640 Market risk 23 64 The decrease in fair value for 2007 compared to 2006 resulted primarily from disposals of securities partially offset by increases in fair market value of certain securities. Limited Partnerships The Company is a limited partner in various private equity funds which invest primarily in emerging markets. The Company accounts for these limited partnerships using the equity method of accounting. Therefore, the Company is recording in the consolidated statement of earnings its proportional share of the limited partnerships net income or loss. The limited partnerships value their investments at fair value. Risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in market prices of the limited partnerships investments. Actual results may differ. 2007 2006 (In millions) Fair value of partnerships investments $ 188 $ 210 Market risk 19 21 The decrease in fair value for 2007 compared to 2006 resulted primarily from returns of capital. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) Currencies In order to reduce the risk of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, except for amounts permanently invested as described below, the Company follows a policy of entering into currency exchange forward contracts to mitigate its foreign currency risk related to transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currencies applicable to each of its various entities. The instruments used are readily marketable exchange traded futures contracts and forward contracts with banks. The changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $5.4 billion at June 30, 2007, and $4.5 billion at June 30, 2006. This increase is due to an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and appreciation of foreign currency exchange rates. The potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $543 million and $454 million for 2007 and 2006, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical .5 % decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2007 2006 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 4,927 $ 4,387 Excess of fair value over carrying value 110 257 Market risk 204 218 The increase in fair value of long term debt in 2007 resulted principally from the Companys issuance of $1.2 billion convertible senior notes partially offset by repayment of $400 million of debentures and other principal payments of long term debt. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and affiliated corporate joint ventures accounted for on the equity method are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by unpredictable factors such as weather, plantings, government (domestic and foreign) farm programs and policies, changes in population growth, changes in standards of living, and production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned unpredictable factors, therefore, may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and profitability of the Companys fixed asset base in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its factories. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment and technology related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. Assets are abandoned after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of this fixed asset base, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Valuation of Marketable Securities and Investments in Affiliates The Company classifies the majority of its marketable securities as available for sale and carries these securities at fair value. Investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings. For publicly traded securities, the fair value of the Companys investments is readily available based on quoted market prices. For non publicly traded securities, managements assessment of fair value is based on valuation methodologies including discounted cash flows and estimates of sales proceeds. In the event of a decline in fair value of an investment below carrying value, management may be required to determine if the decline in fair value is other than temporary. In evaluating the nature of a decline in the fair value of an investment, management considers the market conditions, trends of earnings, discounted cash flows, trading volumes, and other key measures of the investment as well as the Companys ability and intent to hold the investment. When such a decline in value is deemed to be other than temporary, an impairment loss is recognized in the current period operating results to the extent of the decline. See Notes 3 and 5 to the Companys consolidated financial statements for information regarding the Companys marketable securities and investments in affiliates. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these marketable securities, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) The Company is a limited partner in various private equity funds which invest primarily in emerging markets. The Company accounts for these limited partnerships using the equity method of accounting. Therefore, the Company is recording in the consolidated statement of earnings its proportional share of the limited partnerships net income or loss. The limited partnerships value their investments at fair value. Thus, unrealized gains and losses related to the change in fair value of these investments are recorded in the limited partnerships statements of earnings. The valuation of these investments, as determined by the general partner, can be subjective, and the values may vary significantly. Some of the factors causing the subjectivity and volatility of these valuations include the illiquidity and minority positions of these investments, currency exchange rate fluctuations, less regulated securities exchanges, and the inherent business risks and limitations present in the emerging market countries. The Company records the results of these limited partnerships based on the information provided to the Company by the general partner. Due to the subjectivity and volatility in valuing these investments, the fair value of these investments, and thus the Companys results, could vary significantly over future periods. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in commodities futures prices, marketable equity security prices, market prices of limited partnerships investments, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and price of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to unpredictable factors such as weather, plantings, government (domestic and foreign) farm programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. To reduce price risk caused by market fluctuations, the Company generally follows a policy of using exchange traded futures and options contracts to minimize its net position of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories and forward cash purchase and sales contracts. The Company will also use exchange traded futures and options contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the volatility of the relationship between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contracts defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company from time to time enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) A sensitivity analysis has been prepared to estimate the Companys exposure to market risk of its daily net commodity position. The Companys daily net commodity position consists of inventories, related purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures contracts, including those contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements. The fair value of such daily net commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing each net position at quoted futures prices. Market risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in such prices. Actual results may differ. 2007 2006 Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest long position $ 703 $ 70 $ 510 $ 51 Highest short position 565 57 574 57 Average position long (short) 180 18 (203 ) (20 ) The change in fair value of the average position for 2007 compared to 2006 was principally a result of changes in the daily net commodity position and commodity prices. Marketable Equity Securities Marketable equity securities, which are recorded at fair value, have exposure to price risk. The fair value of marketable equity securities is based on quoted market prices. Risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted market prices. Actual results may differ. 2007 2006 (In millions) Fair value $ 227 $ 640 Market risk 23 64 The decrease in fair value for 2007 compared to 2006 resulted primarily from disposals of securities partially offset by increases in fair market value of certain securities. Limited Partnerships The Company is a limited partner in various private equity funds which invest primarily in emerging markets. The Company accounts for these limited partnerships using the equity method of accounting. Therefore, the Company is recording in the consolidated statement of earnings its proportional share of the limited partnerships net income or loss. The limited partnerships value their investments at fair value. Risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in market prices of the limited partnerships investments. Actual results may differ. 2007 2006 (In millions) Fair value of partnerships investments $ 188 $ 210 Market risk 19 21 The decrease in fair value for 2007 compared to 2006 resulted primarily from returns of capital. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) Currencies In order to reduce the risk of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, except for amounts permanently invested as described below, the Company follows a policy of entering into currency exchange forward contracts to mitigate its foreign currency risk related to transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currencies applicable to each of its various entities. The instruments used are readily marketable exchange traded futures contracts and forward contracts with banks. The changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $5.4 billion at June 30, 2007, and $4.5 billion at June 30, 2006. This increase is due to an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and appreciation of foreign currency exchange rates. The potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $543 million and $454 million for 2007 and 2006, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical .5 % decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2007 2006 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 4,927 $ 4,387 Excess of fair value over carrying value 110 257 Market risk 204 218 The increase in fair value of long term debt in 2007 resulted principally from the Companys issuance of $1.2 billion convertible senior notes partially offset by repayment of $400 million of debentures and other principal payments of long term debt. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) The Company is a limited partner in various private equity funds which invest primarily in emerging markets. The Company accounts for these limited partnerships using the equity method of accounting. Therefore, the Company is recording in the consolidated statement of earnings its proportional share of the limited partnerships net income or loss. The limited partnerships value their investments at fair value. Thus, unrealized gains and losses related to the change in fair value of these investments are recorded in the limited partnerships statements of earnings. The valuation of these investments, as determined by the general partner, can be subjective, and the values may vary significantly. Some of the factors causing the subjectivity and volatility of these valuations include the illiquidity and minority positions of these investments, currency exchange rate fluctuations, less regulated securities exchanges, and the inherent business risks and limitations present in the emerging market countries. The Company records the results of these limited partnerships based on the information provided to the Company by the general partner. Due to the subjectivity and volatility in valuing these investments, the fair value of these investments, and thus the Companys results, could vary significantly over future periods. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in commodities futures prices, marketable equity security prices, market prices of limited partnerships investments, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and price of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to unpredictable factors such as weather, plantings, government (domestic and foreign) farm programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. To reduce price risk caused by market fluctuations, the Company generally follows a policy of using exchange traded futures and options contracts to minimize its net position of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories and forward cash purchase and sales contracts. The Company will also use exchange traded futures and options contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the volatility of the relationship between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contracts defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company from time to time enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) A sensitivity analysis has been prepared to estimate the Companys exposure to market risk of its daily net commodity position. The Companys daily net commodity position consists of inventories, related purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures contracts, including those contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements. The fair value of such daily net commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing each net position at quoted futures prices. Market risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in such prices. Actual results may differ. 2007 2006 Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest long position $ 703 $ 70 $ 510 $ 51 Highest short position 565 57 574 57 Average position long (short) 180 18 (203 ) (20 ) The change in fair value of the average position for 2007 compared to 2006 was principally a result of changes in the daily net commodity position and commodity prices. Marketable Equity Securities Marketable equity securities, which are recorded at fair value, have exposure to price risk. The fair value of marketable equity securities is based on quoted market prices. Risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted market prices. Actual results may differ. 2007 2006 (In millions) Fair value $ 227 $ 640 Market risk 23 64 The decrease in fair value for 2007 compared to 2006 resulted primarily from disposals of securities partially offset by increases in fair market value of certain securities. Limited Partnerships The Company is a limited partner in various private equity funds which invest primarily in emerging markets. The Company accounts for these limited partnerships using the equity method of accounting. Therefore, the Company is recording in the consolidated statement of earnings its proportional share of the limited partnerships net income or loss. The limited partnerships value their investments at fair value. Risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in market prices of the limited partnerships investments. Actual results may differ. 2007 2006 (In millions) Fair value of partnerships investments $ 188 $ 210 Market risk 19 21 The decrease in fair value for 2007 compared to 2006 resulted primarily from returns of capital. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) Currencies In order to reduce the risk of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, except for amounts permanently invested as described below, the Company follows a policy of entering into currency exchange forward contracts to mitigate its foreign currency risk related to transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currencies applicable to each of its various entities. The instruments used are readily marketable exchange traded futures contracts and forward contracts with banks. The changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $5.4 billion at June 30, 2007, and $4.5 billion at June 30, 2006. This increase is due to an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and appreciation of foreign currency exchange rates. The potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $543 million and $454 million for 2007 and 2006, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical .5 % decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2007 2006 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 4,927 $ 4,387 Excess of fair value over carrying value 110 257 Market risk 204 218 The increase in fair value of long term debt in 2007 resulted principally from the Companys issuance of $1.2 billion convertible senior notes partially offset by repayment of $400 million of debentures and other principal payments of long term debt. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Company Overview The Company is principally engaged in procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. The Companys operations are classified into three reportable business segments: Oilseeds Processing, Corn Processing, and Agricultural Services. Each of these segments is organized based upon the nature of products and services offered. The Companys remaining operations are aggregated and classified as Other. The Oilseeds Processing segment includes activities related to processing oilseeds such as soybeans, cottonseed, sunflower seeds, canola, peanuts, and flaxseed into vegetable oils and meals principally for the food and feed industries. In addition, oilseeds may be resold into the marketplace as a raw material for other processors. Crude vegetable oil is sold "as is" or is further processed by refining, bleaching, and deodorizing into salad oils. Salad oils can be further processed by hydrogenating and or interesterifying into margarine, shortening, and other food products. Partially refined oil is sold for use in chemicals, paints, and other industrial products. Refined oil can be further processed for use in the production of biodiesel. Oilseed meals are primary ingredients used in the manufacture of commercial livestock and poultry feeds. Oilseeds Processing also includes activities related to the Companys interest in Wilmar International Limited, the largest agricultural processing business in Asia. The Corn Processing segment includes activities related to the production of sweeteners, starches, dextrose, and syrups for the food and beverage industry as well as activities related to the production, by fermentation, of bioproducts such as alcohol, amino acids, and other specialty food and feed ingredients. The Agricultural Services segment utilizes the Companys extensive grain elevator and transportation network to buy, store, clean, and transport agricultural commodities, such as oilseeds, corn, wheat, milo, oats, and barley, and resells these commodities primarily as feed ingredients and as raw materials for the agricultural processing industry. Agricultural Services grain sourcing and transportation network provides reliable and efficient services to the Companys agricultural processing operations. Also included in Agricultural Services are the activities of A.C. Toepfer International, a global merchandiser of agricultural commodities and processed products. Other includes the Companys remaining operations, consisting principally of food, feed, and industrial businesses and financial activities. Food, feed, and industrial includes: Wheat Processing, with activities related to the production of wheat flour; Cocoa Processing, with activities related to the production of chocolate and cocoa products; the production of natural health and nutrition products; and the production of other food, feed, and industrial products. Financial activities include banking, captive insurance, private equity fund investments, and futures commission merchant activities. Operating Performance Indicators The Companys Oilseeds Processing, Agricultural Services, and Wheat Processing operations are principally agricultural commodity based businesses where changes in segment selling prices move in relationship to changes in prices of the commodity based agricultural raw materials. Therefore, changes in agricultural commodity prices have relatively equal impacts on both net sales and cost of products sold and minimal impact on the gross profit of underlying transactions. As a result, changes in net sales amounts of these business segments do not necessarily correspond to the changes in gross profit realized by these businesses. The Companys Corn Processing operations and certain other food and feed processing operations also utilize agricultural commodities (or products derived from agricultural commodities) as raw materials. In these operations, agricultural commodity price changes can result in significant fluctuations in cost of products sold, and such price changes cannot necessarily be passed directly through to the selling price of the finished products. For products such as ethanol, selling prices bear no direct relationship to the raw material cost of the agricultural commodity from which it is produced. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) The Company conducts its business in many countries. For the majority of the Companys subsidiaries located outside the United States, the local currency is the functional currency. Revenues and expenses denominated in foreign currencies are translated into U.S. dollars at the weighted average exchange rates for the applicable periods. Fluctuations in the exchange rates of foreign currencies, primarily the Euro and British pound, as compared to the U.S. dollar will result in corresponding fluctuations in the relative U.S. dollar value of the Companys revenues and expenses. The impact of these currency exchange rate changes, where significant, is discussed below. The Company measures the performance of its business segments using key operating statistics such as segment operating profit and return on fixed capital investment, and return on net assets. The Companys operating results can vary significantly due to changes in unpredictable factors such as fluctuations in energy prices, weather conditions, crop plantings, global government farm programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. Due to these unpredictable factors, the Company does not provide forward looking information in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 2007 Compared to 2006 As an agricultural based commodity business, the Company is subject to a variety of market factors which affect the Companys operating results. Strong biodiesel demand in Europe continued to create increased vegetable oil demand and positively impacted rapeseed crushing margins in Europe. Abundant oilseed supplies, improved vegetable oil values, and strong protein meal demand have positively impacted oilseed crushing margins in North America. Increased ethanol contracted selling prices, continuing strong ethanol demand, and solid demand for sweetener and starch products improved corn processing results. These increases in corn processing results were partially offset by higher net corn costs. Global grain merchandising opportunities resulting from regional production imbalances also improved operating results. North American river transportation operations were favorably impacted by strong demand for river transportation services which increased barge freight rates. Increasing commodity price levels negatively affected LIFO inventory valuations partially offsetting the improvements in operating results. Net earnings increased principally due to improved operating results in all of the Companys operating segments. Earnings before income taxes for 2007 include a gain of $440 million related to the exchange of the Companys interests in certain Asian joint ventures for shares of Wilmar International Limited (the Wilmar Gain), a $357 million realized securities gain from sales of the Companys equity securities of Tyson Foods, Inc. and Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc., a gain of $153 million from the sale of the Companys interest in Agricore United and a $53 million gain from the sale of the Companys Arkady food ingredient business. Earnings before income taxes for 2007 also include charges of $206 million from the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations, $46 million related to the repurchase of $400 million of the Companys outstanding debentures, and $21 million related to abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Net earnings for 2006 include a $36 million reduction in income tax expense related to the recognition of federal and state income tax credits and adjustments resulting from the reconciliation of filed tax returns to the previously estimated tax provision. Earnings before income taxes for 2006 include charges of $15 million resulting from the Companys adoption of Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation Number 47, Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations, an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 143 (FIN 47), $71 million related to abandonment and write down of long lived assets, $9 million representing the Companys share of a charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets reported by an unconsolidated affiliate of the Company, and $22 million associated with the closure of a citric acid plant and exiting the European animal feed business. Earnings before income taxes for 2006 also include credits of $12 million from the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations, $17 million from the sale of long lived assets, $46 million related to Brazilian transactional tax credits, and $40 million related to realized securities gains. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Analysis of Statements of Earnings Net sales and other operating income increased 20% to $44.0 billion due primarily to increased selling prices of agricultural commodities, oilseed and corn processing products and, to a lesser extent, increased sales volumes of agricultural commodities and oilseed processing products. In addition, net sales and other operating income increased $916 million, or 3%, due to currency exchange rate fluctuations. Net sales and other operating income by segment are as follows: 2007 2006 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing $ 13,937 $ 11,867 $ 2,070 Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 2,378 2,133 245 Bioproducts 3,064 2,727 337 Total Corn Processing 5,442 4,860 582 Agricultural Services 19,706 15,440 4,266 Other Food, Feed, and Industrial 4,840 4,354 486 Financial 93 75 18 Total Other 4,933 4,429 504 Total $ 44,018 $ 36,596 $ 7,422 Oilseeds Processing sales increased 17% to $13.9 billion due principally to increased average selling prices of vegetable oil and increased sales volumes of vegetable oil and biodiesel. Vegetable oil selling prices and volumes improved as the markets anticipate new demand from the developing United States biodiesel industry. Biodiesel sales volumes increased due to additional production capacity. Corn Processing sales increased 12% to $5.4 billion principally due to increased sales of Bioproducts and, to a lesser extent, increased sales of Sweeteners and Starches. Bioproducts sales increased primarily due to higher average selling prices of ethanol, partially offset by lower sales volumes. Ethanol average selling prices increased principally due to higher gasoline prices. Ethanol sales volumes decreased as 2006 sales volumes exceeded production due to the release of inventories built up in anticipation of refiners replacing MTBE with ethanol. Sweeteners and Starches sales increased primarily due to higher average selling prices resulting from good demand for sweetener and starch products. Agricultural Services sales increased 28% to $19.7 billion principally due to increased agricultural commodity prices and increased sales volumes. The increase in commodity prices is primarily due to higher average market prices of corn in North America which have increased 60% from the prior year. Increased sales volumes of global grain merchandising activities also contributed to the increase in Agricultural Services sales. Other sales increased 11% to $4.9 billion primarily due to higher average selling prices of wheat flour products and, to a lesser extent, increased sales volumes and higher average selling prices of cocoa products. Cost of products sold increased 21% to $40.8 billion primarily due to higher average prices of agricultural commodities and increased sales volumes. Manufacturing costs for 2007 and 2006 include a $21 million and $62 million charge, respectively, for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. In addition, cost of products sold increased $874 million, or 3%, due to currency exchange rate fluctuations. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Selling, general, and administrative expenses of $1.2 billion were comparable to 2006 and include $25 million of currency exchange rate increases. Excluding the impact of currency exchange rate increases, selling, general and administrative expenses decreased $23 million principally due to 2006 selling, general and administrative expenses including $20 million of severance costs associated with the closure of a citric acid plant. During 2007 and 2006, the Company issued option grants and restricted stock awards to officers and key employees pursuant to the Companys Long term Management Incentive Program. Certain officers and key employees of the Company receiving option grants and restricted stock awards are eligible for retirement. Compensation expense related to option grants and restricted stock awards issued to these retirement eligible employees is recognized in earnings on the date of grant. Selling, general, and administrative expense for 2007 and 2006 includes compensation expense related to option grants and restricted stock awards granted to retirement eligible employees of $30 million and $31 million, respectively. Other income increased $1.0 billion primarily due to the $440 million Wilmar Gain, a $357 million gain on the sale of the Companys equity securities of Tyson Foods, Inc. and Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc., a $153 million gain on the sale of the Companys interest in Agricore United, and a $53 million gain on the sale of the Companys Arkady food ingredient business. Other income also includes a $46 million charge related to the repurchase of $400 million of the Companys outstanding debentures. Excluding these items, other income increased $73 million primarily due to a $120 million increase in equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates, and a $53 million increase in investment income, partially offset by a $69 million increase in interest expense and a $27 million reduction in gains on sales of long lived assets. The increase in equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates is primarily due to higher valuations of the Companys private equity fund investments and improved operating results of the Companys Asian oilseed crushing ventures. Interest expense and investment income increased primarily due to increased average borrowing and investment levels. Operating profit by segment is as follows: 2007 2006 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing $ 1,117 $ 599 $ 518 Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 485 432 53 Bioproducts 634 445 189 Total Corn Processing 1,119 877 242 Agricultural Services 516 275 241 Other Food, Feed, and Industrial 214 159 55 Financial 195 151 44 Total Other 409 310 99 Total Segment Operating Profit 3,161 2,061 1,100 Corporate (7 ) (206 ) 199 Earnings Before Income Taxes $ 3,154 $ 1,855 $ 1,299 Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Oilseeds Processing operating profits increased $518 million to $1.1 billion due to the $440 million Wilmar Gain and improved market conditions in all geographic regions. North American processing results improved principally due to abundant oilseed supplies in the United States and good demand for vegetable oil and soybean meal. Vegetable oil values improved as the markets anticipate new demand from the developing United States biodiesel industry. North American processing results were also favorably impacted by lower plant operating costs resulting from improved capacity utilization. Asian joint venture results improved due to improved palm processing operating results partially offset by decreased soy crushing operating results. European processing results improved principally due to abundant oilseed supplies in Europe and strong demand for vegetable oil. The strong demand for vegetable oil is the result of strong biodiesel demand. These increases were partially offset by decreased biodiesel operating profits resulting from higher vegetable oil prices, increased market production capacity, and lower diesel fuel prices. South American processing results declined principally due to last years $27 million credit for Brazilian transactional taxes. Excluding the impact of last years credit for Brazilian transactional taxes, South American processing results improved principally due to increased fertilizer margins. The improvement in fertilizer margins was primarily due to higher average sales prices due to improved fertilizer demand combined with stable raw material costs. Operating profits for 2007 include a $5 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Operating profits for 2006 include a $14 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets and a $6 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47. Corn Processing operating profits increased $242 million to $1.1 billion principally due to higher average selling prices and lower energy costs, partially offset by lower ethanol sales volumes and higher net corn costs. Net corn costs have increased approximately 60% during 2007 due to significant demand increases for corn resulting primarily from the increase in corn derived ethanol industry capacity. Agricultural commodity market concerns regarding the expected decline in the ending 2006 corn crop carryover has also contributed to the increase in corn costs. Sweeteners and Starches operating profits increased $53 million due primarily to higher average sales prices and lower energy costs. Sales prices have increased principally due to good demand for sweetener and starch products. These increases were partially offset by increased net corn costs. Sweeteners and Starches operating profits for 2006 include a $5 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47. Bioproducts operating profits increased $189 million primarily due to higher ethanol average selling prices and lower energy costs, partially offset by increased net corn costs and lower ethanol sales volumes. Ethanol average sales prices increased principally due to strong demand from gasoline refiners and higher gasoline prices. Ethanol sales volumes decreased as 2006 sales volumes exceeded production due to the release of inventories built up in anticipation of refiners replacing MTBE with ethanol. Bioproducts operating results for 2007 include a $1 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Bioproducts operating results for 2006 include a $6 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets, a $2 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47, and $6 million of costs related to the closure of a citric acid plant. Agricultural Services operating profits increased $241 million to $516 million principally due to a $153 million gain from the sale of the Companys interest in Agricore United, a Canadian business which specialized in crop input, crop protection services, and grain marketing and merchandising. Excluding the Agricore United gain, Agricultural Services operating profits increased $88 million to $363 million principally due to improved global grain merchandising operating results and, to a lesser extent, improved transportation and North American origination operating results. Global grain merchandising results improved as regional production imbalances allowed the Company to capitalize on merchandising opportunities. North American river transportation operating results increased primarily due to increased barge freight rates created by strong demand for barge capacity. North American origination operating results improved due to good export demand for agricultural commodities and higher ocean freight rates. Agricultural Services operating profits for 2007 include a $12 million trade disruption insurance recovery related to Hurricane Katrina. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Other operating profits increased $99 million to $409 million. Other Food, Feed, and Industrial operating profits increased $55 million and include a $53 million gain on the sale of the Companys Arkady food ingredient business and a $15 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Other Food, Feed, and Industrial operating results for 2006 include a $51 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets, a $2 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47, a $9 million charge representing the Companys share of a charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets reported by an unconsolidated affiliate of the Company, a $17 million gain from the sale of long lived assets, and a $16 million charge related to exiting the European animal feed business. Excluding the effect of these 2007 and 2006 items, Other Food, Feed, and Industrial operating profits declined $44 million due primarily to cocoa processing operating results declining from prior year levels and costs related to the start up of the Companys natural plastics production operations. Cocoa processing operating results declined primarily due to increased industry production capacity which caused downward pressure on cocoa processing margins. These increases were partially offset by improved operating results of the Companys wheat flour processing and protein specialty operations. Other Financial operating profits increased $44 million principally due to increased valuations of the Companys private equity fund investments and higher operating results of the Companys futures commission merchant business, partially offset by lower operating results of the Companys captive insurance operations. The results of the Companys captive insurance operations for 2007 include a $12 million charge related to a Hurricane Katrina trade disruption insurance settlement. Corporate expense decreased $199 million to $7 million principally due to a $345 million increase in realized securities gains principally resulting from sales of the Companys equity securities of Tyson Foods, Inc. and Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc. and a $103 million reduction in unallocated interest expense due principally to higher levels of invested funds and higher interest rates. These decreases were partially offset by a $206 million charge, compared to a $12 million credit in the prior year, related to the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations and a $46 million charge related to the repurchase of $400 million of the Companys outstanding debentures. Income taxes increased due principally to higher pretax earnings and the absence of last years $36 million income tax credit related to the recognition of federal and state income tax credits and adjustments resulting from the reconciliation of filed tax returns to the previously estimated tax provision. The Companys effective tax rate during 2007 was 31.5% and, after excluding the effect of last years $36 million tax credit, was 31.2% for the prior year. The increase in the Companys effective tax rate is primarily due to changes in the geographic mix of pretax earnings. 2006 Compared to 2005 As an agricultural based commodity business, the Company is subject to a variety of market factors which affect the Companys operating results. Strong biodiesel demand in Europe continued to create increased vegetable oil demand and has positively impacted rapeseed crushing margins in Europe. Abundant oilseed supplies and strong protein meal demand have positively impacted oilseed crushing margins in North America. A good corn supply resulting in lower price levels for corn favorably impacted corn processing operations, while ethanol experienced good demand due to gasoline refiners replacing MTBE with ethanol. Solid demand for sweetener and starch products has also improved corn processing results. During the first half of 2006, hurricanes in the gulf coast region of the United States disrupted North American grain origination and agricultural commodity export operations, negatively impacting export sales volumes. The gulf coast hurricanes also disrupted river transportation, resulting in increased barge demand and barge freight rates. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Net earnings increased principally due to improved operating results of Oilseeds Processing and Corn Processing. In addition, net earnings also increased due to a $36 million reduction in income tax expense related to the recognition of federal and state income tax credits and adjustments resulting from the reconciliation of filed tax returns to the previously estimated tax provision. Earnings before income taxes for 2006 include charges of $31 million resulting from the Companys adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) Number 123(R), Share Based Payment, $15 million resulting from the Companys adoption of FIN 47, $71 million related to abandonment and write down of long lived assets, $9 million representing the Companys share of a charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets reported by an unconsolidated affiliate of the Company, and $22 million associated with the closure of a citric acid plant and exiting the European animal feed business. Earnings before income taxes for 2006 also include credits of $12 million from the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations, $17 million from the sale of long lived assets, $46 million related to Brazilian transactional tax credits, and $40 million related to realized securities gains. Earnings before income taxes for 2005 included credits of $114 million from the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations, $114 million of realized securities gain from the sale of Tate & Lyle PLC shares, and $45 million representing the Companys equity share of the gain reported by the Companys unconsolidated affiliate, Compagnie Industrielle et Financiere des Produits Amylaces SA (CIP), upon the sale of its interest in Tate & Lyle PLC (the CIP Gain). Earnings before income taxes for 2005 also include a $42 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Analysis of Statements of Earnings Net sales and other operating income increased 2% to $36.6 billion due primarily to higher average selling prices of agricultural commodities and increased sales volumes and selling prices of corn processing products, partially offset by decreased average selling prices of cocoa products and currency exchange rate decreases of $415 million. Net sales and other operating income by segment are as follows: 2006 2005 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing $ 11,867 $ 11,803 $ 64 Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 2,133 1,905 228 Bioproducts 2,727 2,459 268 Total Corn Processing 4,860 4,364 496 Agricultural Services 15,440 15,198 242 Other Food, Feed, and Industrial 4,354 4,506 (152 ) Financial 75 72 3 Total Other 4,429 4,578 (149 ) Total $ 36,596 $ 35,943 653 Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Oilseeds Processing sales increased $64 million to $11.9 billion principally due to higher average selling prices of South American oilseed exports and of vegetable oil. These increases were partially offset by lower average selling prices of protein meal. Corn Processing sales increased 11% to $4.9 billion due to sales increases in both Sweeteners and Starches and Bioproducts. Sweeteners and Starches sales increased due to higher average selling prices and sales volumes. Sales volumes and prices have increased primarily due to solid demand for sweetener and starch products. Bioproducts sales increased primarily due to increased sales volumes and average selling prices of ethanol, partially offset by lower average selling prices of lysine. The increases in ethanol sales volumes and sales prices were principally due to increased demand from gasoline refiners as refiners used ethanol to replace MTBE as a gasoline additive and to increased gasoline prices. Agricultural Services sales increased 2% to $15.4 billion primarily due to increased commodity prices in North America and, to a lesser extent, increased barge freight rates as the gulf coast hurricanes reduced barge capacities and created strong demand for North American river transportation. These increases were partially offset by decreased commodity sales volumes in North America. The decreased sales volumes were primarily due to disruptions in North American grain origination and export activities caused by the hurricanes in the gulf coast region. Other sales decreased 3% to $4.4 billion primarily due to decreased average selling prices of cocoa products and lower sales volumes of formula feed products. These decreases were partially offset by increased average selling prices of wheat flour products due to higher commodity prices. Cost of products sold increased $118 million to $33.6 billion due primarily to higher average prices of agricultural commodities and increased manufacturing costs, partially offset by currency exchange rate decreases of $389 million. Manufacturing costs increased $399 million primarily due to increased energy costs, an $86 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets, and increased employee related costs. Selling, general, and administrative expenses increased $112 million to $1.2 billion principally due to increased employee related costs, including a $31 million charge related to the adoption of SFAS 123(R), $20 million of severance costs associated with the closure of a citric acid plant, and increased provisions for doubtful accounts. Other income decreased $84 million due primarily to a $73 million decrease in realized securities gains, a $55 million decrease in equity in earnings of affiliates, and a $39 million increase in interest expense, partially offset by a $69 million increase in investment income. The decrease in realized securities gains is primarily due to the $114 million realized securities gain in 2005 from the sale of Tate & Lyle PLC shares, partially offset by $40 million of realized securities gains during 2006. The decrease in equity in earnings of affiliates is primarily due to the CIP Gain in 2005 and lower valuations of the Companys private equity fund investments in 2006, partially offset by improved earnings of the Companys Asian oilseed crushing ventures. Interest expense increased primarily due to higher average borrowing levels and interest rates. Investment income increased primarily due to the reversal of $19 million of Brazilian transactional taxes previously assessed on investment income upon positive resolution in the Brazilian Supreme Court, higher levels of invested funds, and higher interest rates. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Operating profit by segment is as follows: 2006 2005 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing $ 599 $ 345 $ 254 Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 431 271 160 Bioproducts 446 259 187 Total Corn Processing 877 530 347 Agricultural Services 275 262 13 Other Food, Feed, and Industrial 159 263 (104 ) Financial 151 151 Total Other 310 414 (104 ) Total Segment Operating Profit 2,061 1,551 510 Corporate (206 ) (35 ) (171 ) Earnings Before Income Taxes $ 1,855 $ 1,516 $ 339 Oilseeds Processing operating profits increased $254 million to $599 million primarily due to improved market conditions in all geographic regions. European processing results improved principally due to strong demand for biodiesel and abundant rapeseed supplies in Europe. This strong demand for biodiesel in Europe increased European vegetable oil demand and resulted in improved oilseeds processing results. Abundant rapeseed supplies in Europe resulted in lower rapeseed price levels. North American processing results improved principally due to abundant oilseed supplies in the United States and good demand for soybean meal. Vegetable oil values were solid as the markets anticipate new demand from the developing United States biodiesel industry. South American operating results increased primarily due to improved origination activities and a $27 million credit for Brazilian transactional taxes. Operating results in Asia increased due to improved soy crushing margins and improved palm operations. Operating profits include a $14 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets and a $6 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47. Operating profits for 2005 include a charge of $13 million for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Corn Processing operating profits increased $347 million to $877 million primarily due to higher average selling prices, increased sales volumes, and lower net corn costs, partially offset by increased energy costs. Sweeteners and Starches operating profits increased $160 million due primarily to decreased net corn costs and higher average sales prices and sales volumes. Sales volumes and prices have increased primarily due to good demand for sweetener and starch products. These increases were partially offset by increased energy costs. Sweeteners and Starches operating profits include a $5 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47. Bioproducts operating profits increased $187 million primarily due to higher ethanol sales volumes and average selling prices and decreased net corn costs, partially offset by increased energy costs and lower lysine average selling prices. The increases in ethanol sales volumes and average sales prices were principally due to increased demand from gasoline refiners as refiners used ethanol to replace MTBE as a gasoline additive and from increased gasoline prices. Bioproducts operating profits include a $6 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets, a $2 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47, and $6 million of costs related to the closure of a citric acid plant. Bioproducts operating profits for 2005 include a $16 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Agricultural Services operating profits increased $13 million to $275 million as improved results from transportation operations were partially offset by a decline in global grain merchandising and North American origination operating results. North American river transportation operating results increased primarily due to increased barge freight rates created by strong demand for barge capacity. This increase was partially offset by increased fuel costs. The gulf coast hurricanes negatively impacted North American origination and export activities during the first half of 2006. Other operating profits decreased $104 million to $310 million. Other Food, Feed, and Industrial operating results decreased $104 million due primarily to a $51 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets, a $2 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47, and a $9 million charge representing the Companys share of a charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets reported by an unconsolidated affiliate of the Company. In addition, cocoa processing, natural health and nutrition, and formula feed operating results declined from prior year levels. Cocoa processing operating results declined primarily due to increased industry capacity which caused downward pressure on cocoa finished product prices. Formula feed operating results declined due to costs associated with exiting the European animal feed business. Other Food, Feed, and Industrial operating profits include a $17 million gain from the sale of long lived assets. Other Food, Feed, and Industrial operating results for 2005 include a $13 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Other Financial operating profits are comparable to prior year levels as improvements in the Companys captive insurance operations and futures commission merchant business offset lower valuations of the Companys private equity fund investments. Corporate decreased $171 million due primarily to a $102 million decrease in income from the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations, the $114 million realized securities gain in 2005 from the sale of Tate & Lyle PLC shares, the CIP Gain in 2005, and a $22 million charge in 2006 upon the adoption of SFAS 123(R), partially offset by the aforementioned $19 million reversal of Brazilian transactional taxes and a $97 million reduction in unallocated interest expense. The reduction in unallocated interest expense is due principally to higher levels of invested funds and higher interest rates. Income taxes increased due principally to higher pretax earnings. This increase was partially offset by a $36 million reduction in income tax expense related to the recognition of federal and state income tax credits and adjustments resulting from the reconciliation of filed tax returns to the previously estimated tax provision. The Companys effective tax rate for 2006 was 29.3% as compared to 31.1% for 2005. Excluding the effect of the $36 million tax credit, the Companys effective tax rate was 31.2% for 2006 and, after excluding the effect of the CIP Gain, was 32.1% for 2005. No tax was provided on the CIP Gain in 2005, as CIP is a corporate joint venture of the Company and the proceeds from the sale are permanently reinvested. Excluding the effect of the $36 million tax credit in 2006 and the CIP Gain in 2005, the decrease in the Companys effective tax rate is primarily due to changes in the geographic mix of pretax earnings. Liquidity and Capital Resources The Companys objective is to have sufficient liquidity, balance sheet strength, and financial flexibility to fund the operating and capital requirements of a capital intensive agricultural based commodity business. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) At June 30, 2007, the Company continued to show substantial liquidity with working capital of $7.3 billion and a current ratio, defined as current assets divided by current liabilities, of 1.9 to 1. Included in working capital is $875 million of cash, cash equivalents, and short term marketable securities as well as $4.4 billion of readily marketable commodity inventories. Cash generated from operating activities totaled $303 million for the year compared to $1.4 billion last year. This decrease was primarily due to an increase in working capital requirements principally related to increased prices and quantities of agricultural commodity inventories and increased receivables, partially offset by increased cash earnings. Despite increased investment in property, plant, and equipment, cash used in investing activities decreased $714 million for the year to $355 million due primarily to increased sales of marketable securities and proceeds from sales of businesses including the sale of the Companys equity interests in Tyson Foods, Inc., Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc. and Agricore United. Cash used in financing activities was $398 million compared to cash generated by financing activities of $284 million last year. Net long term borrowings increased primarily as a result of the issuance of $1.2 billion of convertible senior notes in February 2007 (described in detail below), compared to $600 million of 30 year debentures issued in September 2005. This increase was partially offset by $283 million of increased payments on long term debt principally related to the Company retiring $400 million of debentures in 2007. Capital resources were strengthened as shown by the increase in the Companys net worth from $9.8 billion to $11.3 billion. The Companys ratio of long term debt to total capital (the sum of the Companys long term debt and shareholders equity) was 30% at June 30, 2007, and 29% at June 30, 2006. This ratio is a measure of the Companys long term liquidity and is an indicator of financial flexibility. The Company currently has $3.9 billion of commercial paper and commercial bank lines available to meet seasonal cash requirements of which $2.6 billion are committed and $1.3 billion are uncommitted. At June 30, 2007, the Company had $468 million of short term debt outstanding. Standard & Poors, Moodys, and Fitch rate the Companys commercial paper as A 1, P 1, and F1, respectively, and rate the Companys long term debt as A, A2, and A+, respectively. In addition to the cash flow generated from operations, the Company has access to equity and debt capital through numerous alternatives from public and private sources in domestic and international markets. In February 2007, the Company issued $1.2 billion principal amount of convertible senior notes due in 2014 (the Notes) in a private placement. The Notes were issued at par and bear interest at a rate of 0.875% per year, payable semiannually. The Notes are convertible based on an initial conversion rate of 22.8343 shares per $1,000 principal amount of Notes (which is equal to an initial conversion price of approximately $43.79 per share). The Notes may be converted, subject to adjustment, only under the following circumstances: 1) during any calendar quarter beginning after March 31, 2007, if the closing price of the Companys common stock for at least 20 trading days in the 30 consecutive trading days ending on the last trading day of the immediately preceding quarter is more than 140% of the applicable conversion price per share, which is $1,000 divided by the then applicable conversion rate, 2) during the five consecutive business day period immediately after any five consecutive trading day period (the note measurement period) in which the average of the trading price per $1,000 principal amount of Notes was equal to or less than 98% of the average of the product of the closing price of the Companys common stock and the conversion rate at each date during the note measurement period, 3) if the Company makes specified distributions to its common stockholders or specified corporate transactions occur, or 4) at any time on or after January 15, 2014, through the business day preceding the maturity date. Upon conversion, a holder would receive an amount in cash equal to the lesser of 1) $1,000 and 2) the conversion value, as defined. If the conversion value exceeds $1,000, the Company will deliver, at the Companys election, cash or common stock or a combination of cash and common stock for the conversion value in excess of $1,000. If the Notes are converted in connection with a change in control, as defined, the Company may be required to provide a make whole premium in the form of an increase in the conversion rate, subject to a stated maximum amount. In addition, in the event of a change in control, the holders may require the Company to purchase all or a portion of their Notes at a purchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Concurrent with the issuance of the Notes, the Company purchased call options in private transactions at a cost of $299 million. The purchased call options allow the Company to receive shares of its common stock and or cash from the counterparties equal to the amounts of common stock and or cash related to the excess of the current market price of the Companys common stock over the exercise price of the purchased call options. In addition, the Company sold warrants in private transactions to acquire, subject to customary anti dilution adjustments, 26.3 million shares of its common stock at an exercise price of $62.56 per share and received proceeds of $170 million. If the average price of the Companys common stock during a defined period ending on or about the respective settlement dates exceeds the exercise price of the warrants, the warrants will be settled, at the Companys option, in cash or shares of common stock. The purchased call options and warrants are intended to reduce the potential dilution upon future conversions of the Notes by effectively increasing the initial conversion price to $62.56 per share. Upon closing of the sale of the Notes, $370 million of the net proceeds from the Note issuance and the proceeds from the warrant transactions were used to repurchase 10.3 million shares of the Companys common stock under the Companys stock repurchase program. As of June 30, 2007, none of the conditions permitting conversion of the Notes had been satisfied. In addition, as of June 30, 2007, the market price of the Companys common stock was not greater than the exercise price of the purchased call options or warrants. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements In the normal course of business, the Company enters into contracts and commitments which obligate the Company to make payments in the future. The following table sets forth the Companys significant future obligations by time period. Purchases include commodity based contracts entered into in the normal course of business, which are further described in Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, energy related purchase contracts entered into in the normal course of business, and other purchase obligations related to the Companys normal business activities. Where applicable, information included in the Companys consolidated financial statements and notes is cross referenced in this table. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Payments Due by Period Contractual Note Less than 2 3 4 5 Over Obligations Reference Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years (In millions) Purchases Inventories $ 11,113 $ 10,312 $ 535 $ 159 $ 107 Energy 429 269 152 7 1 Other 217 67 94 43 13 Total purchases 11,759 10,648 781 209 121 Short term debt Note 7 468 468 Long term debt Note 7 4,897 65 92 425 4,315 Estimated interest payments 5,752 290 509 474 4,479 Operating leases Note 12 900 318 241 132 209 Estimated pension and other postretirement plan contributions Note 13 1,045 79 173 195 598 Total $ 24,821 $ 11,868 $ 1,796 $ 1,435 $ 9,722 At June 30, 2007, the Company estimates it will spend approximately $3.0 billion over the next four years to complete approved capital projects and acquisitions. The Company is a limited partner in various private equity funds which invest primarily in emerging markets. At June 30, 2007, the Companys carrying value of these limited partnership investments was $165 million. The Company has future capital commitments related to these partnerships of $138 million and expects the majority of these additional capital commitments, if called for, to be funded by cash flows generated by the partnerships. The Company also has outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds of $339 million at June 30, 2007. In addition, the Company has entered into agreements, primarily debt guarantee agreements related to equity method investees, which could obligate the Company to make future payments. The Companys liability under these agreements arises only if the primary entity fails to perform its contractual obligation. The Company has collateral for a portion of these contingent obligations. At June 30, 2007, these contingent obligations totaled approximately $98 million. Amounts outstanding for the primary entity under these contingent obligations were $51 million at June 30, 2007. Critical Accounting Policies The process of preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the carrying values of the Companys assets and liabilities as well as the recognition of revenues and expenses. These estimates and judgments are based on the Companys historical experience and managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Certain of the Companys accounting policies are considered critical, as these policies are important to the depiction of the Companys financial statements and require significant or complex judgment by management. Management has discussed with the Companys Audit Committee the development, selection, disclosure, and application of these critical accounting policies. Following are the accounting policies management considers critical to the Companys financial statements. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Inventories and Derivatives Certain of the Companys merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, forward fixed price purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and options contracts are valued at estimated market values. These merchandisable agricultural commodities are freely traded, have quoted market prices, and may be sold without significant additional processing. Management estimates market value based on exchange quoted prices, adjusted for differences in local markets. Changes in the market values of these inventories and contracts are recognized in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. If management used different methods or factors to estimate market value, amounts reported as inventories and cost of products sold could differ. Additionally, if market conditions change subsequent to year end, amounts reported in future periods as inventories and cost of products sold could differ. The Company, from time to time, uses derivative contracts to fix the purchase price of anticipated volumes of commodities to be purchased and processed in a future month, to fix the purchase price of the Companys anticipated natural gas requirements for certain production facilities, and to fix the sales price of anticipated volumes of ethanol. These derivative contracts are designated as cash flow hedges. The change in the market value of such derivative contracts has historically been, and is expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. If it is determined that the derivative instruments used are no longer effective at offsetting changes in the price of the hedged item, then the changes in the market value of these exchange traded futures contracts would be recorded in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. Employee Benefit Plans The Company provides substantially all domestic employees and employees at certain international subsidiaries with pension benefits. The Company also provides substantially all domestic salaried employees with postretirement health care and life insurance benefits. In order to measure the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans, management makes several estimates and assumptions, including interest rates used to discount certain liabilities, rates of return on assets set aside to fund these plans, rates of compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and anticipated future health care costs. These estimates and assumptions are based on the Companys historical experience combined with managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Management also uses third party specialists to assist in measuring the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans. If management used different estimates and assumptions regarding these plans, the funded status of the plans could vary significantly, and the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Income Taxes The Company frequently faces challenges from domestic and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company records reserves for probable exposures. Deferred tax assets represent items to be used as tax deductions or credits in future tax returns, and the related tax benefit has already been recognized in the Companys income statement. Realization of certain deferred tax assets reflects the Companys tax planning strategies. Valuation allowances related to these deferred tax assets have been established to the extent the realization of the tax benefit is not probable. Based on managements evaluation of the Companys tax position, it is believed the amounts related to these tax exposures are appropriately accrued. To the extent the Company were to favorably resolve matters for which accruals have been established or be required to pay amounts in excess of the aforementioned reserves, the Companys effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be impacted. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and affiliated corporate joint ventures accounted for on the equity method are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by unpredictable factors such as weather, plantings, government (domestic and foreign) farm programs and policies, changes in population growth, changes in standards of living, and production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned unpredictable factors, therefore, may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and profitability of the Companys fixed asset base in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its factories. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment and technology related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. Assets are abandoned after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of this fixed asset base, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Valuation of Marketable Securities and Investments in Affiliates The Company classifies the majority of its marketable securities as available for sale and carries these securities at fair value. Investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings. For publicly traded securities, the fair value of the Companys investments is readily available based on quoted market prices. For non publicly traded securities, managements assessment of fair value is based on valuation methodologies including discounted cash flows and estimates of sales proceeds. In the event of a decline in fair value of an investment below carrying value, management may be required to determine if the decline in fair value is other than temporary. In evaluating the nature of a decline in the fair value of an investment, management considers the market conditions, trends of earnings, discounted cash flows, trading volumes, and other key measures of the investment as well as the Companys ability and intent to hold the investment. When such a decline in value is deemed to be other than temporary, an impairment loss is recognized in the current period operating results to the extent of the decline. See Notes 3 and 5 to the Companys consolidated financial statements for information regarding the Companys marketable securities and investments in affiliates. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these marketable securities, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) The Company is a limited partner in various private equity funds which invest primarily in emerging markets. The Company accounts for these limited partnerships using the equity method of accounting. Therefore, the Company is recording in the consolidated statement of earnings its proportional share of the limited partnerships net income or loss. The limited partnerships value their investments at fair value. Thus, unrealized gains and losses related to the change in fair value of these investments are recorded in the limited partnerships statements of earnings. The valuation of these investments, as determined by the general partner, can be subjective, and the values may vary significantly. Some of the factors causing the subjectivity and volatility of these valuations include the illiquidity and minority positions of these investments, currency exchange rate fluctuations, less regulated securities exchanges, and the inherent business risks and limitations present in the emerging market countries. The Company records the results of these limited partnerships based on the information provided to the Company by the general partner. Due to the subjectivity and volatility in valuing these investments, the fair value of these investments, and thus the Companys results, could vary significantly over future periods. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in commodities futures prices, marketable equity security prices, market prices of limited partnerships investments, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and price of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to unpredictable factors such as weather, plantings, government (domestic and foreign) farm programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. To reduce price risk caused by market fluctuations, the Company generally follows a policy of using exchange traded futures and options contracts to minimize its net position of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories and forward cash purchase and sales contracts. The Company will also use exchange traded futures and options contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the volatility of the relationship between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contracts defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company from time to time enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) A sensitivity analysis has been prepared to estimate the Companys exposure to market risk of its daily net commodity position. The Companys daily net commodity position consists of inventories, related purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures contracts, including those contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements. The fair value of such daily net commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing each net position at quoted futures prices. Market risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in such prices. Actual results may differ. 2007 2006 Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest long position $ 703 $ 70 $ 510 $ 51 Highest short position 565 57 574 57 Average position long (short) 180 18 (203 ) (20 ) The change in fair value of the average position for 2007 compared to 2006 was principally a result of changes in the daily net commodity position and commodity prices. Marketable Equity Securities Marketable equity securities, which are recorded at fair value, have exposure to price risk. The fair value of marketable equity securities is based on quoted market prices. Risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted market prices. Actual results may differ. 2007 2006 (In millions) Fair value $ 227 $ 640 Market risk 23 64 The decrease in fair value for 2007 compared to 2006 resulted primarily from disposals of securities partially offset by increases in fair market value of certain securities. Limited Partnerships The Company is a limited partner in various private equity funds which invest primarily in emerging markets. The Company accounts for these limited partnerships using the equity method of accounting. Therefore, the Company is recording in the consolidated statement of earnings its proportional share of the limited partnerships net income or loss. The limited partnerships value their investments at fair value. Risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in market prices of the limited partnerships investments. Actual results may differ. 2007 2006 (In millions) Fair value of partnerships investments $ 188 $ 210 Market risk 19 21 The decrease in fair value for 2007 compared to 2006 resulted primarily from returns of capital. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) Currencies In order to reduce the risk of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, except for amounts permanently invested as described below, the Company follows a policy of entering into currency exchange forward contracts to mitigate its foreign currency risk related to transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currencies applicable to each of its various entities. The instruments used are readily marketable exchange traded futures contracts and forward contracts with banks. The changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $5.4 billion at June 30, 2007, and $4.5 billion at June 30, 2006. This increase is due to an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and appreciation of foreign currency exchange rates. The potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $543 million and $454 million for 2007 and 2006, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical .5 % decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2007 2006 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 4,927 $ 4,387 Excess of fair value over carrying value 110 257 Market risk 204 218 The increase in fair value of long term debt in 2007 resulted principally from the Companys issuance of $1.2 billion convertible senior notes partially offset by repayment of $400 million of debentures and other principal payments of long term debt. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) The Company conducts its business in many countries. For the majority of the Companys subsidiaries located outside the United States, the local currency is the functional currency. Revenues and expenses denominated in foreign currencies are translated into U.S. dollars at the weighted average exchange rates for the applicable periods. Fluctuations in the exchange rates of foreign currencies, primarily the Euro and British pound, as compared to the U.S. dollar will result in corresponding fluctuations in the relative U.S. dollar value of the Companys revenues and expenses. The impact of these currency exchange rate changes, where significant, is discussed below. The Company measures the performance of its business segments using key operating statistics such as segment operating profit and return on fixed capital investment, and return on net assets. The Companys operating results can vary significantly due to changes in unpredictable factors such as fluctuations in energy prices, weather conditions, crop plantings, global government farm programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. Due to these unpredictable factors, the Company does not provide forward looking information in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 2007 Compared to 2006 As an agricultural based commodity business, the Company is subject to a variety of market factors which affect the Companys operating results. Strong biodiesel demand in Europe continued to create increased vegetable oil demand and positively impacted rapeseed crushing margins in Europe. Abundant oilseed supplies, improved vegetable oil values, and strong protein meal demand have positively impacted oilseed crushing margins in North America. Increased ethanol contracted selling prices, continuing strong ethanol demand, and solid demand for sweetener and starch products improved corn processing results. These increases in corn processing results were partially offset by higher net corn costs. Global grain merchandising opportunities resulting from regional production imbalances also improved operating results. North American river transportation operations were favorably impacted by strong demand for river transportation services which increased barge freight rates. Increasing commodity price levels negatively affected LIFO inventory valuations partially offsetting the improvements in operating results. Net earnings increased principally due to improved operating results in all of the Companys operating segments. Earnings before income taxes for 2007 include a gain of $440 million related to the exchange of the Companys interests in certain Asian joint ventures for shares of Wilmar International Limited (the Wilmar Gain), a $357 million realized securities gain from sales of the Companys equity securities of Tyson Foods, Inc. and Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc., a gain of $153 million from the sale of the Companys interest in Agricore United and a $53 million gain from the sale of the Companys Arkady food ingredient business. Earnings before income taxes for 2007 also include charges of $206 million from the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations, $46 million related to the repurchase of $400 million of the Companys outstanding debentures, and $21 million related to abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Net earnings for 2006 include a $36 million reduction in income tax expense related to the recognition of federal and state income tax credits and adjustments resulting from the reconciliation of filed tax returns to the previously estimated tax provision. Earnings before income taxes for 2006 include charges of $15 million resulting from the Companys adoption of Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation Number 47, Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations, an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 143 (FIN 47), $71 million related to abandonment and write down of long lived assets, $9 million representing the Companys share of a charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets reported by an unconsolidated affiliate of the Company, and $22 million associated with the closure of a citric acid plant and exiting the European animal feed business. Earnings before income taxes for 2006 also include credits of $12 million from the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations, $17 million from the sale of long lived assets, $46 million related to Brazilian transactional tax credits, and $40 million related to realized securities gains. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Analysis of Statements of Earnings Net sales and other operating income increased 20% to $44.0 billion due primarily to increased selling prices of agricultural commodities, oilseed and corn processing products and, to a lesser extent, increased sales volumes of agricultural commodities and oilseed processing products. In addition, net sales and other operating income increased $916 million, or 3%, due to currency exchange rate fluctuations. Net sales and other operating income by segment are as follows: 2007 2006 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing $ 13,937 $ 11,867 $ 2,070 Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 2,378 2,133 245 Bioproducts 3,064 2,727 337 Total Corn Processing 5,442 4,860 582 Agricultural Services 19,706 15,440 4,266 Other Food, Feed, and Industrial 4,840 4,354 486 Financial 93 75 18 Total Other 4,933 4,429 504 Total $ 44,018 $ 36,596 $ 7,422 Oilseeds Processing sales increased 17% to $13.9 billion due principally to increased average selling prices of vegetable oil and increased sales volumes of vegetable oil and biodiesel. Vegetable oil selling prices and volumes improved as the markets anticipate new demand from the developing United States biodiesel industry. Biodiesel sales volumes increased due to additional production capacity. Corn Processing sales increased 12% to $5.4 billion principally due to increased sales of Bioproducts and, to a lesser extent, increased sales of Sweeteners and Starches. Bioproducts sales increased primarily due to higher average selling prices of ethanol, partially offset by lower sales volumes. Ethanol average selling prices increased principally due to higher gasoline prices. Ethanol sales volumes decreased as 2006 sales volumes exceeded production due to the release of inventories built up in anticipation of refiners replacing MTBE with ethanol. Sweeteners and Starches sales increased primarily due to higher average selling prices resulting from good demand for sweetener and starch products. Agricultural Services sales increased 28% to $19.7 billion principally due to increased agricultural commodity prices and increased sales volumes. The increase in commodity prices is primarily due to higher average market prices of corn in North America which have increased 60% from the prior year. Increased sales volumes of global grain merchandising activities also contributed to the increase in Agricultural Services sales. Other sales increased 11% to $4.9 billion primarily due to higher average selling prices of wheat flour products and, to a lesser extent, increased sales volumes and higher average selling prices of cocoa products. Cost of products sold increased 21% to $40.8 billion primarily due to higher average prices of agricultural commodities and increased sales volumes. Manufacturing costs for 2007 and 2006 include a $21 million and $62 million charge, respectively, for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. In addition, cost of products sold increased $874 million, or 3%, due to currency exchange rate fluctuations. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Selling, general, and administrative expenses of $1.2 billion were comparable to 2006 and include $25 million of currency exchange rate increases. Excluding the impact of currency exchange rate increases, selling, general and administrative expenses decreased $23 million principally due to 2006 selling, general and administrative expenses including $20 million of severance costs associated with the closure of a citric acid plant. During 2007 and 2006, the Company issued option grants and restricted stock awards to officers and key employees pursuant to the Companys Long term Management Incentive Program. Certain officers and key employees of the Company receiving option grants and restricted stock awards are eligible for retirement. Compensation expense related to option grants and restricted stock awards issued to these retirement eligible employees is recognized in earnings on the date of grant. Selling, general, and administrative expense for 2007 and 2006 includes compensation expense related to option grants and restricted stock awards granted to retirement eligible employees of $30 million and $31 million, respectively. Other income increased $1.0 billion primarily due to the $440 million Wilmar Gain, a $357 million gain on the sale of the Companys equity securities of Tyson Foods, Inc. and Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc., a $153 million gain on the sale of the Companys interest in Agricore United, and a $53 million gain on the sale of the Companys Arkady food ingredient business. Other income also includes a $46 million charge related to the repurchase of $400 million of the Companys outstanding debentures. Excluding these items, other income increased $73 million primarily due to a $120 million increase in equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates, and a $53 million increase in investment income, partially offset by a $69 million increase in interest expense and a $27 million reduction in gains on sales of long lived assets. The increase in equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates is primarily due to higher valuations of the Companys private equity fund investments and improved operating results of the Companys Asian oilseed crushing ventures. Interest expense and investment income increased primarily due to increased average borrowing and investment levels. Operating profit by segment is as follows: 2007 2006 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing $ 1,117 $ 599 $ 518 Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 485 432 53 Bioproducts 634 445 189 Total Corn Processing 1,119 877 242 Agricultural Services 516 275 241 Other Food, Feed, and Industrial 214 159 55 Financial 195 151 44 Total Other 409 310 99 Total Segment Operating Profit 3,161 2,061 1,100 Corporate (7 ) (206 ) 199 Earnings Before Income Taxes $ 3,154 $ 1,855 $ 1,299 Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Oilseeds Processing operating profits increased $518 million to $1.1 billion due to the $440 million Wilmar Gain and improved market conditions in all geographic regions. North American processing results improved principally due to abundant oilseed supplies in the United States and good demand for vegetable oil and soybean meal. Vegetable oil values improved as the markets anticipate new demand from the developing United States biodiesel industry. North American processing results were also favorably impacted by lower plant operating costs resulting from improved capacity utilization. Asian joint venture results improved due to improved palm processing operating results partially offset by decreased soy crushing operating results. European processing results improved principally due to abundant oilseed supplies in Europe and strong demand for vegetable oil. The strong demand for vegetable oil is the result of strong biodiesel demand. These increases were partially offset by decreased biodiesel operating profits resulting from higher vegetable oil prices, increased market production capacity, and lower diesel fuel prices. South American processing results declined principally due to last years $27 million credit for Brazilian transactional taxes. Excluding the impact of last years credit for Brazilian transactional taxes, South American processing results improved principally due to increased fertilizer margins. The improvement in fertilizer margins was primarily due to higher average sales prices due to improved fertilizer demand combined with stable raw material costs. Operating profits for 2007 include a $5 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Operating profits for 2006 include a $14 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets and a $6 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47. Corn Processing operating profits increased $242 million to $1.1 billion principally due to higher average selling prices and lower energy costs, partially offset by lower ethanol sales volumes and higher net corn costs. Net corn costs have increased approximately 60% during 2007 due to significant demand increases for corn resulting primarily from the increase in corn derived ethanol industry capacity. Agricultural commodity market concerns regarding the expected decline in the ending 2006 corn crop carryover has also contributed to the increase in corn costs. Sweeteners and Starches operating profits increased $53 million due primarily to higher average sales prices and lower energy costs. Sales prices have increased principally due to good demand for sweetener and starch products. These increases were partially offset by increased net corn costs. Sweeteners and Starches operating profits for 2006 include a $5 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47. Bioproducts operating profits increased $189 million primarily due to higher ethanol average selling prices and lower energy costs, partially offset by increased net corn costs and lower ethanol sales volumes. Ethanol average sales prices increased principally due to strong demand from gasoline refiners and higher gasoline prices. Ethanol sales volumes decreased as 2006 sales volumes exceeded production due to the release of inventories built up in anticipation of refiners replacing MTBE with ethanol. Bioproducts operating results for 2007 include a $1 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Bioproducts operating results for 2006 include a $6 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets, a $2 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47, and $6 million of costs related to the closure of a citric acid plant. Agricultural Services operating profits increased $241 million to $516 million principally due to a $153 million gain from the sale of the Companys interest in Agricore United, a Canadian business which specialized in crop input, crop protection services, and grain marketing and merchandising. Excluding the Agricore United gain, Agricultural Services operating profits increased $88 million to $363 million principally due to improved global grain merchandising operating results and, to a lesser extent, improved transportation and North American origination operating results. Global grain merchandising results improved as regional production imbalances allowed the Company to capitalize on merchandising opportunities. North American river transportation operating results increased primarily due to increased barge freight rates created by strong demand for barge capacity. North American origination operating results improved due to good export demand for agricultural commodities and higher ocean freight rates. Agricultural Services operating profits for 2007 include a $12 million trade disruption insurance recovery related to Hurricane Katrina. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Other operating profits increased $99 million to $409 million. Other Food, Feed, and Industrial operating profits increased $55 million and include a $53 million gain on the sale of the Companys Arkady food ingredient business and a $15 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Other Food, Feed, and Industrial operating results for 2006 include a $51 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets, a $2 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47, a $9 million charge representing the Companys share of a charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets reported by an unconsolidated affiliate of the Company, a $17 million gain from the sale of long lived assets, and a $16 million charge related to exiting the European animal feed business. Excluding the effect of these 2007 and 2006 items, Other Food, Feed, and Industrial operating profits declined $44 million due primarily to cocoa processing operating results declining from prior year levels and costs related to the start up of the Companys natural plastics production operations. Cocoa processing operating results declined primarily due to increased industry production capacity which caused downward pressure on cocoa processing margins. These increases were partially offset by improved operating results of the Companys wheat flour processing and protein specialty operations. Other Financial operating profits increased $44 million principally due to increased valuations of the Companys private equity fund investments and higher operating results of the Companys futures commission merchant business, partially offset by lower operating results of the Companys captive insurance operations. The results of the Companys captive insurance operations for 2007 include a $12 million charge related to a Hurricane Katrina trade disruption insurance settlement. Corporate expense decreased $199 million to $7 million principally due to a $345 million increase in realized securities gains principally resulting from sales of the Companys equity securities of Tyson Foods, Inc. and Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc. and a $103 million reduction in unallocated interest expense due principally to higher levels of invested funds and higher interest rates. These decreases were partially offset by a $206 million charge, compared to a $12 million credit in the prior year, related to the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations and a $46 million charge related to the repurchase of $400 million of the Companys outstanding debentures. Income taxes increased due principally to higher pretax earnings and the absence of last years $36 million income tax credit related to the recognition of federal and state income tax credits and adjustments resulting from the reconciliation of filed tax returns to the previously estimated tax provision. The Companys effective tax rate during 2007 was 31.5% and, after excluding the effect of last years $36 million tax credit, was 31.2% for the prior year. The increase in the Companys effective tax rate is primarily due to changes in the geographic mix of pretax earnings. 2006 Compared to 2005 As an agricultural based commodity business, the Company is subject to a variety of market factors which affect the Companys operating results. Strong biodiesel demand in Europe continued to create increased vegetable oil demand and has positively impacted rapeseed crushing margins in Europe. Abundant oilseed supplies and strong protein meal demand have positively impacted oilseed crushing margins in North America. A good corn supply resulting in lower price levels for corn favorably impacted corn processing operations, while ethanol experienced good demand due to gasoline refiners replacing MTBE with ethanol. Solid demand for sweetener and starch products has also improved corn processing results. During the first half of 2006, hurricanes in the gulf coast region of the United States disrupted North American grain origination and agricultural commodity export operations, negatively impacting export sales volumes. The gulf coast hurricanes also disrupted river transportation, resulting in increased barge demand and barge freight rates. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Net earnings increased principally due to improved operating results of Oilseeds Processing and Corn Processing. In addition, net earnings also increased due to a $36 million reduction in income tax expense related to the recognition of federal and state income tax credits and adjustments resulting from the reconciliation of filed tax returns to the previously estimated tax provision. Earnings before income taxes for 2006 include charges of $31 million resulting from the Companys adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) Number 123(R), Share Based Payment, $15 million resulting from the Companys adoption of FIN 47, $71 million related to abandonment and write down of long lived assets, $9 million representing the Companys share of a charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets reported by an unconsolidated affiliate of the Company, and $22 million associated with the closure of a citric acid plant and exiting the European animal feed business. Earnings before income taxes for 2006 also include credits of $12 million from the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations, $17 million from the sale of long lived assets, $46 million related to Brazilian transactional tax credits, and $40 million related to realized securities gains. Earnings before income taxes for 2005 included credits of $114 million from the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations, $114 million of realized securities gain from the sale of Tate & Lyle PLC shares, and $45 million representing the Companys equity share of the gain reported by the Companys unconsolidated affiliate, Compagnie Industrielle et Financiere des Produits Amylaces SA (CIP), upon the sale of its interest in Tate & Lyle PLC (the CIP Gain). Earnings before income taxes for 2005 also include a $42 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Analysis of Statements of Earnings Net sales and other operating income increased 2% to $36.6 billion due primarily to higher average selling prices of agricultural commodities and increased sales volumes and selling prices of corn processing products, partially offset by decreased average selling prices of cocoa products and currency exchange rate decreases of $415 million. Net sales and other operating income by segment are as follows: 2006 2005 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing $ 11,867 $ 11,803 $ 64 Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 2,133 1,905 228 Bioproducts 2,727 2,459 268 Total Corn Processing 4,860 4,364 496 Agricultural Services 15,440 15,198 242 Other Food, Feed, and Industrial 4,354 4,506 (152 ) Financial 75 72 3 Total Other 4,429 4,578 (149 ) Total $ 36,596 $ 35,943 653 Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Oilseeds Processing sales increased $64 million to $11.9 billion principally due to higher average selling prices of South American oilseed exports and of vegetable oil. These increases were partially offset by lower average selling prices of protein meal. Corn Processing sales increased 11% to $4.9 billion due to sales increases in both Sweeteners and Starches and Bioproducts. Sweeteners and Starches sales increased due to higher average selling prices and sales volumes. Sales volumes and prices have increased primarily due to solid demand for sweetener and starch products. Bioproducts sales increased primarily due to increased sales volumes and average selling prices of ethanol, partially offset by lower average selling prices of lysine. The increases in ethanol sales volumes and sales prices were principally due to increased demand from gasoline refiners as refiners used ethanol to replace MTBE as a gasoline additive and to increased gasoline prices. Agricultural Services sales increased 2% to $15.4 billion primarily due to increased commodity prices in North America and, to a lesser extent, increased barge freight rates as the gulf coast hurricanes reduced barge capacities and created strong demand for North American river transportation. These increases were partially offset by decreased commodity sales volumes in North America. The decreased sales volumes were primarily due to disruptions in North American grain origination and export activities caused by the hurricanes in the gulf coast region. Other sales decreased 3% to $4.4 billion primarily due to decreased average selling prices of cocoa products and lower sales volumes of formula feed products. These decreases were partially offset by increased average selling prices of wheat flour products due to higher commodity prices. Cost of products sold increased $118 million to $33.6 billion due primarily to higher average prices of agricultural commodities and increased manufacturing costs, partially offset by currency exchange rate decreases of $389 million. Manufacturing costs increased $399 million primarily due to increased energy costs, an $86 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets, and increased employee related costs. Selling, general, and administrative expenses increased $112 million to $1.2 billion principally due to increased employee related costs, including a $31 million charge related to the adoption of SFAS 123(R), $20 million of severance costs associated with the closure of a citric acid plant, and increased provisions for doubtful accounts. Other income decreased $84 million due primarily to a $73 million decrease in realized securities gains, a $55 million decrease in equity in earnings of affiliates, and a $39 million increase in interest expense, partially offset by a $69 million increase in investment income. The decrease in realized securities gains is primarily due to the $114 million realized securities gain in 2005 from the sale of Tate & Lyle PLC shares, partially offset by $40 million of realized securities gains during 2006. The decrease in equity in earnings of affiliates is primarily due to the CIP Gain in 2005 and lower valuations of the Companys private equity fund investments in 2006, partially offset by improved earnings of the Companys Asian oilseed crushing ventures. Interest expense increased primarily due to higher average borrowing levels and interest rates. Investment income increased primarily due to the reversal of $19 million of Brazilian transactional taxes previously assessed on investment income upon positive resolution in the Brazilian Supreme Court, higher levels of invested funds, and higher interest rates. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Operating profit by segment is as follows: 2006 2005 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing $ 599 $ 345 $ 254 Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 431 271 160 Bioproducts 446 259 187 Total Corn Processing 877 530 347 Agricultural Services 275 262 13 Other Food, Feed, and Industrial 159 263 (104 ) Financial 151 151 Total Other 310 414 (104 ) Total Segment Operating Profit 2,061 1,551 510 Corporate (206 ) (35 ) (171 ) Earnings Before Income Taxes $ 1,855 $ 1,516 $ 339 Oilseeds Processing operating profits increased $254 million to $599 million primarily due to improved market conditions in all geographic regions. European processing results improved principally due to strong demand for biodiesel and abundant rapeseed supplies in Europe. This strong demand for biodiesel in Europe increased European vegetable oil demand and resulted in improved oilseeds processing results. Abundant rapeseed supplies in Europe resulted in lower rapeseed price levels. North American processing results improved principally due to abundant oilseed supplies in the United States and good demand for soybean meal. Vegetable oil values were solid as the markets anticipate new demand from the developing United States biodiesel industry. South American operating results increased primarily due to improved origination activities and a $27 million credit for Brazilian transactional taxes. Operating results in Asia increased due to improved soy crushing margins and improved palm operations. Operating profits include a $14 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets and a $6 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47. Operating profits for 2005 include a charge of $13 million for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Corn Processing operating profits increased $347 million to $877 million primarily due to higher average selling prices, increased sales volumes, and lower net corn costs, partially offset by increased energy costs. Sweeteners and Starches operating profits increased $160 million due primarily to decreased net corn costs and higher average sales prices and sales volumes. Sales volumes and prices have increased primarily due to good demand for sweetener and starch products. These increases were partially offset by increased energy costs. Sweeteners and Starches operating profits include a $5 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47. Bioproducts operating profits increased $187 million primarily due to higher ethanol sales volumes and average selling prices and decreased net corn costs, partially offset by increased energy costs and lower lysine average selling prices. The increases in ethanol sales volumes and average sales prices were principally due to increased demand from gasoline refiners as refiners used ethanol to replace MTBE as a gasoline additive and from increased gasoline prices. Bioproducts operating profits include a $6 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets, a $2 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47, and $6 million of costs related to the closure of a citric acid plant. Bioproducts operating profits for 2005 include a $16 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Agricultural Services operating profits increased $13 million to $275 million as improved results from transportation operations were partially offset by a decline in global grain merchandising and North American origination operating results. North American river transportation operating results increased primarily due to increased barge freight rates created by strong demand for barge capacity. This increase was partially offset by increased fuel costs. The gulf coast hurricanes negatively impacted North American origination and export activities during the first half of 2006. Other operating profits decreased $104 million to $310 million. Other Food, Feed, and Industrial operating results decreased $104 million due primarily to a $51 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets, a $2 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47, and a $9 million charge representing the Companys share of a charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets reported by an unconsolidated affiliate of the Company. In addition, cocoa processing, natural health and nutrition, and formula feed operating results declined from prior year levels. Cocoa processing operating results declined primarily due to increased industry capacity which caused downward pressure on cocoa finished product prices. Formula feed operating results declined due to costs associated with exiting the European animal feed business. Other Food, Feed, and Industrial operating profits include a $17 million gain from the sale of long lived assets. Other Food, Feed, and Industrial operating results for 2005 include a $13 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Other Financial operating profits are comparable to prior year levels as improvements in the Companys captive insurance operations and futures commission merchant business offset lower valuations of the Companys private equity fund investments. Corporate decreased $171 million due primarily to a $102 million decrease in income from the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations, the $114 million realized securities gain in 2005 from the sale of Tate & Lyle PLC shares, the CIP Gain in 2005, and a $22 million charge in 2006 upon the adoption of SFAS 123(R), partially offset by the aforementioned $19 million reversal of Brazilian transactional taxes and a $97 million reduction in unallocated interest expense. The reduction in unallocated interest expense is due principally to higher levels of invested funds and higher interest rates. Income taxes increased due principally to higher pretax earnings. This increase was partially offset by a $36 million reduction in income tax expense related to the recognition of federal and state income tax credits and adjustments resulting from the reconciliation of filed tax returns to the previously estimated tax provision. The Companys effective tax rate for 2006 was 29.3% as compared to 31.1% for 2005. Excluding the effect of the $36 million tax credit, the Companys effective tax rate was 31.2% for 2006 and, after excluding the effect of the CIP Gain, was 32.1% for 2005. No tax was provided on the CIP Gain in 2005, as CIP is a corporate joint venture of the Company and the proceeds from the sale are permanently reinvested. Excluding the effect of the $36 million tax credit in 2006 and the CIP Gain in 2005, the decrease in the Companys effective tax rate is primarily due to changes in the geographic mix of pretax earnings. Liquidity and Capital Resources The Companys objective is to have sufficient liquidity, balance sheet strength, and financial flexibility to fund the operating and capital requirements of a capital intensive agricultural based commodity business. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) At June 30, 2007, the Company continued to show substantial liquidity with working capital of $7.3 billion and a current ratio, defined as current assets divided by current liabilities, of 1.9 to 1. Included in working capital is $875 million of cash, cash equivalents, and short term marketable securities as well as $4.4 billion of readily marketable commodity inventories. Cash generated from operating activities totaled $303 million for the year compared to $1.4 billion last year. This decrease was primarily due to an increase in working capital requirements principally related to increased prices and quantities of agricultural commodity inventories and increased receivables, partially offset by increased cash earnings. Despite increased investment in property, plant, and equipment, cash used in investing activities decreased $714 million for the year to $355 million due primarily to increased sales of marketable securities and proceeds from sales of businesses including the sale of the Companys equity interests in Tyson Foods, Inc., Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc. and Agricore United. Cash used in financing activities was $398 million compared to cash generated by financing activities of $284 million last year. Net long term borrowings increased primarily as a result of the issuance of $1.2 billion of convertible senior notes in February 2007 (described in detail below), compared to $600 million of 30 year debentures issued in September 2005. This increase was partially offset by $283 million of increased payments on long term debt principally related to the Company retiring $400 million of debentures in 2007. Capital resources were strengthened as shown by the increase in the Companys net worth from $9.8 billion to $11.3 billion. The Companys ratio of long term debt to total capital (the sum of the Companys long term debt and shareholders equity) was 30% at June 30, 2007, and 29% at June 30, 2006. This ratio is a measure of the Companys long term liquidity and is an indicator of financial flexibility. The Company currently has $3.9 billion of commercial paper and commercial bank lines available to meet seasonal cash requirements of which $2.6 billion are committed and $1.3 billion are uncommitted. At June 30, 2007, the Company had $468 million of short term debt outstanding. Standard & Poors, Moodys, and Fitch rate the Companys commercial paper as A 1, P 1, and F1, respectively, and rate the Companys long term debt as A, A2, and A+, respectively. In addition to the cash flow generated from operations, the Company has access to equity and debt capital through numerous alternatives from public and private sources in domestic and international markets. In February 2007, the Company issued $1.2 billion principal amount of convertible senior notes due in 2014 (the Notes) in a private placement. The Notes were issued at par and bear interest at a rate of 0.875% per year, payable semiannually. The Notes are convertible based on an initial conversion rate of 22.8343 shares per $1,000 principal amount of Notes (which is equal to an initial conversion price of approximately $43.79 per share). The Notes may be converted, subject to adjustment, only under the following circumstances: 1) during any calendar quarter beginning after March 31, 2007, if the closing price of the Companys common stock for at least 20 trading days in the 30 consecutive trading days ending on the last trading day of the immediately preceding quarter is more than 140% of the applicable conversion price per share, which is $1,000 divided by the then applicable conversion rate, 2) during the five consecutive business day period immediately after any five consecutive trading day period (the note measurement period) in which the average of the trading price per $1,000 principal amount of Notes was equal to or less than 98% of the average of the product of the closing price of the Companys common stock and the conversion rate at each date during the note measurement period, 3) if the Company makes specified distributions to its common stockholders or specified corporate transactions occur, or 4) at any time on or after January 15, 2014, through the business day preceding the maturity date. Upon conversion, a holder would receive an amount in cash equal to the lesser of 1) $1,000 and 2) the conversion value, as defined. If the conversion value exceeds $1,000, the Company will deliver, at the Companys election, cash or common stock or a combination of cash and common stock for the conversion value in excess of $1,000. If the Notes are converted in connection with a change in control, as defined, the Company may be required to provide a make whole premium in the form of an increase in the conversion rate, subject to a stated maximum amount. In addition, in the event of a change in control, the holders may require the Company to purchase all or a portion of their Notes at a purchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Concurrent with the issuance of the Notes, the Company purchased call options in private transactions at a cost of $299 million. The purchased call options allow the Company to receive shares of its common stock and or cash from the counterparties equal to the amounts of common stock and or cash related to the excess of the current market price of the Companys common stock over the exercise price of the purchased call options. In addition, the Company sold warrants in private transactions to acquire, subject to customary anti dilution adjustments, 26.3 million shares of its common stock at an exercise price of $62.56 per share and received proceeds of $170 million. If the average price of the Companys common stock during a defined period ending on or about the respective settlement dates exceeds the exercise price of the warrants, the warrants will be settled, at the Companys option, in cash or shares of common stock. The purchased call options and warrants are intended to reduce the potential dilution upon future conversions of the Notes by effectively increasing the initial conversion price to $62.56 per share. Upon closing of the sale of the Notes, $370 million of the net proceeds from the Note issuance and the proceeds from the warrant transactions were used to repurchase 10.3 million shares of the Companys common stock under the Companys stock repurchase program. As of June 30, 2007, none of the conditions permitting conversion of the Notes had been satisfied. In addition, as of June 30, 2007, the market price of the Companys common stock was not greater than the exercise price of the purchased call options or warrants. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements In the normal course of business, the Company enters into contracts and commitments which obligate the Company to make payments in the future. The following table sets forth the Companys significant future obligations by time period. Purchases include commodity based contracts entered into in the normal course of business, which are further described in Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, energy related purchase contracts entered into in the normal course of business, and other purchase obligations related to the Companys normal business activities. Where applicable, information included in the Companys consolidated financial statements and notes is cross referenced in this table. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Payments Due by Period Contractual Note Less than 2 3 4 5 Over Obligations Reference Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years (In millions) Purchases Inventories $ 11,113 $ 10,312 $ 535 $ 159 $ 107 Energy 429 269 152 7 1 Other 217 67 94 43 13 Total purchases 11,759 10,648 781 209 121 Short term debt Note 7 468 468 Long term debt Note 7 4,897 65 92 425 4,315 Estimated interest payments 5,752 290 509 474 4,479 Operating leases Note 12 900 318 241 132 209 Estimated pension and other postretirement plan contributions Note 13 1,045 79 173 195 598 Total $ 24,821 $ 11,868 $ 1,796 $ 1,435 $ 9,722 At June 30, 2007, the Company estimates it will spend approximately $3.0 billion over the next four years to complete approved capital projects and acquisitions. The Company is a limited partner in various private equity funds which invest primarily in emerging markets. At June 30, 2007, the Companys carrying value of these limited partnership investments was $165 million. The Company has future capital commitments related to these partnerships of $138 million and expects the majority of these additional capital commitments, if called for, to be funded by cash flows generated by the partnerships. The Company also has outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds of $339 million at June 30, 2007. In addition, the Company has entered into agreements, primarily debt guarantee agreements related to equity method investees, which could obligate the Company to make future payments. The Companys liability under these agreements arises only if the primary entity fails to perform its contractual obligation. The Company has collateral for a portion of these contingent obligations. At June 30, 2007, these contingent obligations totaled approximately $98 million. Amounts outstanding for the primary entity under these contingent obligations were $51 million at June 30, 2007. Critical Accounting Policies The process of preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the carrying values of the Companys assets and liabilities as well as the recognition of revenues and expenses. These estimates and judgments are based on the Companys historical experience and managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Certain of the Companys accounting policies are considered critical, as these policies are important to the depiction of the Companys financial statements and require significant or complex judgment by management. Management has discussed with the Companys Audit Committee the development, selection, disclosure, and application of these critical accounting policies. Following are the accounting policies management considers critical to the Companys financial statements. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Inventories and Derivatives Certain of the Companys merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, forward fixed price purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and options contracts are valued at estimated market values. These merchandisable agricultural commodities are freely traded, have quoted market prices, and may be sold without significant additional processing. Management estimates market value based on exchange quoted prices, adjusted for differences in local markets. Changes in the market values of these inventories and contracts are recognized in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. If management used different methods or factors to estimate market value, amounts reported as inventories and cost of products sold could differ. Additionally, if market conditions change subsequent to year end, amounts reported in future periods as inventories and cost of products sold could differ. The Company, from time to time, uses derivative contracts to fix the purchase price of anticipated volumes of commodities to be purchased and processed in a future month, to fix the purchase price of the Companys anticipated natural gas requirements for certain production facilities, and to fix the sales price of anticipated volumes of ethanol. These derivative contracts are designated as cash flow hedges. The change in the market value of such derivative contracts has historically been, and is expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. If it is determined that the derivative instruments used are no longer effective at offsetting changes in the price of the hedged item, then the changes in the market value of these exchange traded futures contracts would be recorded in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. Employee Benefit Plans The Company provides substantially all domestic employees and employees at certain international subsidiaries with pension benefits. The Company also provides substantially all domestic salaried employees with postretirement health care and life insurance benefits. In order to measure the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans, management makes several estimates and assumptions, including interest rates used to discount certain liabilities, rates of return on assets set aside to fund these plans, rates of compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and anticipated future health care costs. These estimates and assumptions are based on the Companys historical experience combined with managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Management also uses third party specialists to assist in measuring the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans. If management used different estimates and assumptions regarding these plans, the funded status of the plans could vary significantly, and the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Income Taxes The Company frequently faces challenges from domestic and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company records reserves for probable exposures. Deferred tax assets represent items to be used as tax deductions or credits in future tax returns, and the related tax benefit has already been recognized in the Companys income statement. Realization of certain deferred tax assets reflects the Companys tax planning strategies. Valuation allowances related to these deferred tax assets have been established to the extent the realization of the tax benefit is not probable. Based on managements evaluation of the Companys tax position, it is believed the amounts related to these tax exposures are appropriately accrued. To the extent the Company were to favorably resolve matters for which accruals have been established or be required to pay amounts in excess of the aforementioned reserves, the Companys effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be impacted. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and affiliated corporate joint ventures accounted for on the equity method are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by unpredictable factors such as weather, plantings, government (domestic and foreign) farm programs and policies, changes in population growth, changes in standards of living, and production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned unpredictable factors, therefore, may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and profitability of the Companys fixed asset base in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its factories. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment and technology related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. Assets are abandoned after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of this fixed asset base, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Valuation of Marketable Securities and Investments in Affiliates The Company classifies the majority of its marketable securities as available for sale and carries these securities at fair value. Investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings. For publicly traded securities, the fair value of the Companys investments is readily available based on quoted market prices. For non publicly traded securities, managements assessment of fair value is based on valuation methodologies including discounted cash flows and estimates of sales proceeds. In the event of a decline in fair value of an investment below carrying value, management may be required to determine if the decline in fair value is other than temporary. In evaluating the nature of a decline in the fair value of an investment, management considers the market conditions, trends of earnings, discounted cash flows, trading volumes, and other key measures of the investment as well as the Companys ability and intent to hold the investment. When such a decline in value is deemed to be other than temporary, an impairment loss is recognized in the current period operating results to the extent of the decline. See Notes 3 and 5 to the Companys consolidated financial statements for information regarding the Companys marketable securities and investments in affiliates. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these marketable securities, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) The Company is a limited partner in various private equity funds which invest primarily in emerging markets. The Company accounts for these limited partnerships using the equity method of accounting. Therefore, the Company is recording in the consolidated statement of earnings its proportional share of the limited partnerships net income or loss. The limited partnerships value their investments at fair value. Thus, unrealized gains and losses related to the change in fair value of these investments are recorded in the limited partnerships statements of earnings. The valuation of these investments, as determined by the general partner, can be subjective, and the values may vary significantly. Some of the factors causing the subjectivity and volatility of these valuations include the illiquidity and minority positions of these investments, currency exchange rate fluctuations, less regulated securities exchanges, and the inherent business risks and limitations present in the emerging market countries. The Company records the results of these limited partnerships based on the information provided to the Company by the general partner. Due to the subjectivity and volatility in valuing these investments, the fair value of these investments, and thus the Companys results, could vary significantly over future periods. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in commodities futures prices, marketable equity security prices, market prices of limited partnerships investments, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and price of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to unpredictable factors such as weather, plantings, government (domestic and foreign) farm programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. To reduce price risk caused by market fluctuations, the Company generally follows a policy of using exchange traded futures and options contracts to minimize its net position of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories and forward cash purchase and sales contracts. The Company will also use exchange traded futures and options contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the volatility of the relationship between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contracts defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company from time to time enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) A sensitivity analysis has been prepared to estimate the Companys exposure to market risk of its daily net commodity position. The Companys daily net commodity position consists of inventories, related purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures contracts, including those contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements. The fair value of such daily net commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing each net position at quoted futures prices. Market risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in such prices. Actual results may differ. 2007 2006 Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest long position $ 703 $ 70 $ 510 $ 51 Highest short position 565 57 574 57 Average position long (short) 180 18 (203 ) (20 ) The change in fair value of the average position for 2007 compared to 2006 was principally a result of changes in the daily net commodity position and commodity prices. Marketable Equity Securities Marketable equity securities, which are recorded at fair value, have exposure to price risk. The fair value of marketable equity securities is based on quoted market prices. Risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted market prices. Actual results may differ. 2007 2006 (In millions) Fair value $ 227 $ 640 Market risk 23 64 The decrease in fair value for 2007 compared to 2006 resulted primarily from disposals of securities partially offset by increases in fair market value of certain securities. Limited Partnerships The Company is a limited partner in various private equity funds which invest primarily in emerging markets. The Company accounts for these limited partnerships using the equity method of accounting. Therefore, the Company is recording in the consolidated statement of earnings its proportional share of the limited partnerships net income or loss. The limited partnerships value their investments at fair value. Risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in market prices of the limited partnerships investments. Actual results may differ. 2007 2006 (In millions) Fair value of partnerships investments $ 188 $ 210 Market risk 19 21 The decrease in fair value for 2007 compared to 2006 resulted primarily from returns of capital. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) Currencies In order to reduce the risk of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, except for amounts permanently invested as described below, the Company follows a policy of entering into currency exchange forward contracts to mitigate its foreign currency risk related to transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currencies applicable to each of its various entities. The instruments used are readily marketable exchange traded futures contracts and forward contracts with banks. The changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $5.4 billion at June 30, 2007, and $4.5 billion at June 30, 2006. This increase is due to an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and appreciation of foreign currency exchange rates. The potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $543 million and $454 million for 2007 and 2006, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical .5 % decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2007 2006 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 4,927 $ 4,387 Excess of fair value over carrying value 110 257 Market risk 204 218 The increase in fair value of long term debt in 2007 resulted principally from the Companys issuance of $1.2 billion convertible senior notes partially offset by repayment of $400 million of debentures and other principal payments of long term debt. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Analysis of Statements of Earnings Net sales and other operating income increased 20% to $44.0 billion due primarily to increased selling prices of agricultural commodities, oilseed and corn processing products and, to a lesser extent, increased sales volumes of agricultural commodities and oilseed processing products. In addition, net sales and other operating income increased $916 million, or 3%, due to currency exchange rate fluctuations. Net sales and other operating income by segment are as follows: 2007 2006 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing $ 13,937 $ 11,867 $ 2,070 Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 2,378 2,133 245 Bioproducts 3,064 2,727 337 Total Corn Processing 5,442 4,860 582 Agricultural Services 19,706 15,440 4,266 Other Food, Feed, and Industrial 4,840 4,354 486 Financial 93 75 18 Total Other 4,933 4,429 504 Total $ 44,018 $ 36,596 $ 7,422 Oilseeds Processing sales increased 17% to $13.9 billion due principally to increased average selling prices of vegetable oil and increased sales volumes of vegetable oil and biodiesel. Vegetable oil selling prices and volumes improved as the markets anticipate new demand from the developing United States biodiesel industry. Biodiesel sales volumes increased due to additional production capacity. Corn Processing sales increased 12% to $5.4 billion principally due to increased sales of Bioproducts and, to a lesser extent, increased sales of Sweeteners and Starches. Bioproducts sales increased primarily due to higher average selling prices of ethanol, partially offset by lower sales volumes. Ethanol average selling prices increased principally due to higher gasoline prices. Ethanol sales volumes decreased as 2006 sales volumes exceeded production due to the release of inventories built up in anticipation of refiners replacing MTBE with ethanol. Sweeteners and Starches sales increased primarily due to higher average selling prices resulting from good demand for sweetener and starch products. Agricultural Services sales increased 28% to $19.7 billion principally due to increased agricultural commodity prices and increased sales volumes. The increase in commodity prices is primarily due to higher average market prices of corn in North America which have increased 60% from the prior year. Increased sales volumes of global grain merchandising activities also contributed to the increase in Agricultural Services sales. Other sales increased 11% to $4.9 billion primarily due to higher average selling prices of wheat flour products and, to a lesser extent, increased sales volumes and higher average selling prices of cocoa products. Cost of products sold increased 21% to $40.8 billion primarily due to higher average prices of agricultural commodities and increased sales volumes. Manufacturing costs for 2007 and 2006 include a $21 million and $62 million charge, respectively, for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. In addition, cost of products sold increased $874 million, or 3%, due to currency exchange rate fluctuations. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Selling, general, and administrative expenses of $1.2 billion were comparable to 2006 and include $25 million of currency exchange rate increases. Excluding the impact of currency exchange rate increases, selling, general and administrative expenses decreased $23 million principally due to 2006 selling, general and administrative expenses including $20 million of severance costs associated with the closure of a citric acid plant. During 2007 and 2006, the Company issued option grants and restricted stock awards to officers and key employees pursuant to the Companys Long term Management Incentive Program. Certain officers and key employees of the Company receiving option grants and restricted stock awards are eligible for retirement. Compensation expense related to option grants and restricted stock awards issued to these retirement eligible employees is recognized in earnings on the date of grant. Selling, general, and administrative expense for 2007 and 2006 includes compensation expense related to option grants and restricted stock awards granted to retirement eligible employees of $30 million and $31 million, respectively. Other income increased $1.0 billion primarily due to the $440 million Wilmar Gain, a $357 million gain on the sale of the Companys equity securities of Tyson Foods, Inc. and Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc., a $153 million gain on the sale of the Companys interest in Agricore United, and a $53 million gain on the sale of the Companys Arkady food ingredient business. Other income also includes a $46 million charge related to the repurchase of $400 million of the Companys outstanding debentures. Excluding these items, other income increased $73 million primarily due to a $120 million increase in equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates, and a $53 million increase in investment income, partially offset by a $69 million increase in interest expense and a $27 million reduction in gains on sales of long lived assets. The increase in equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates is primarily due to higher valuations of the Companys private equity fund investments and improved operating results of the Companys Asian oilseed crushing ventures. Interest expense and investment income increased primarily due to increased average borrowing and investment levels. Operating profit by segment is as follows: 2007 2006 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing $ 1,117 $ 599 $ 518 Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 485 432 53 Bioproducts 634 445 189 Total Corn Processing 1,119 877 242 Agricultural Services 516 275 241 Other Food, Feed, and Industrial 214 159 55 Financial 195 151 44 Total Other 409 310 99 Total Segment Operating Profit 3,161 2,061 1,100 Corporate (7 ) (206 ) 199 Earnings Before Income Taxes $ 3,154 $ 1,855 $ 1,299 Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Oilseeds Processing operating profits increased $518 million to $1.1 billion due to the $440 million Wilmar Gain and improved market conditions in all geographic regions. North American processing results improved principally due to abundant oilseed supplies in the United States and good demand for vegetable oil and soybean meal. Vegetable oil values improved as the markets anticipate new demand from the developing United States biodiesel industry. North American processing results were also favorably impacted by lower plant operating costs resulting from improved capacity utilization. Asian joint venture results improved due to improved palm processing operating results partially offset by decreased soy crushing operating results. European processing results improved principally due to abundant oilseed supplies in Europe and strong demand for vegetable oil. The strong demand for vegetable oil is the result of strong biodiesel demand. These increases were partially offset by decreased biodiesel operating profits resulting from higher vegetable oil prices, increased market production capacity, and lower diesel fuel prices. South American processing results declined principally due to last years $27 million credit for Brazilian transactional taxes. Excluding the impact of last years credit for Brazilian transactional taxes, South American processing results improved principally due to increased fertilizer margins. The improvement in fertilizer margins was primarily due to higher average sales prices due to improved fertilizer demand combined with stable raw material costs. Operating profits for 2007 include a $5 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Operating profits for 2006 include a $14 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets and a $6 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47. Corn Processing operating profits increased $242 million to $1.1 billion principally due to higher average selling prices and lower energy costs, partially offset by lower ethanol sales volumes and higher net corn costs. Net corn costs have increased approximately 60% during 2007 due to significant demand increases for corn resulting primarily from the increase in corn derived ethanol industry capacity. Agricultural commodity market concerns regarding the expected decline in the ending 2006 corn crop carryover has also contributed to the increase in corn costs. Sweeteners and Starches operating profits increased $53 million due primarily to higher average sales prices and lower energy costs. Sales prices have increased principally due to good demand for sweetener and starch products. These increases were partially offset by increased net corn costs. Sweeteners and Starches operating profits for 2006 include a $5 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47. Bioproducts operating profits increased $189 million primarily due to higher ethanol average selling prices and lower energy costs, partially offset by increased net corn costs and lower ethanol sales volumes. Ethanol average sales prices increased principally due to strong demand from gasoline refiners and higher gasoline prices. Ethanol sales volumes decreased as 2006 sales volumes exceeded production due to the release of inventories built up in anticipation of refiners replacing MTBE with ethanol. Bioproducts operating results for 2007 include a $1 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Bioproducts operating results for 2006 include a $6 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets, a $2 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47, and $6 million of costs related to the closure of a citric acid plant. Agricultural Services operating profits increased $241 million to $516 million principally due to a $153 million gain from the sale of the Companys interest in Agricore United, a Canadian business which specialized in crop input, crop protection services, and grain marketing and merchandising. Excluding the Agricore United gain, Agricultural Services operating profits increased $88 million to $363 million principally due to improved global grain merchandising operating results and, to a lesser extent, improved transportation and North American origination operating results. Global grain merchandising results improved as regional production imbalances allowed the Company to capitalize on merchandising opportunities. North American river transportation operating results increased primarily due to increased barge freight rates created by strong demand for barge capacity. North American origination operating results improved due to good export demand for agricultural commodities and higher ocean freight rates. Agricultural Services operating profits for 2007 include a $12 million trade disruption insurance recovery related to Hurricane Katrina. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Other operating profits increased $99 million to $409 million. Other Food, Feed, and Industrial operating profits increased $55 million and include a $53 million gain on the sale of the Companys Arkady food ingredient business and a $15 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Other Food, Feed, and Industrial operating results for 2006 include a $51 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets, a $2 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47, a $9 million charge representing the Companys share of a charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets reported by an unconsolidated affiliate of the Company, a $17 million gain from the sale of long lived assets, and a $16 million charge related to exiting the European animal feed business. Excluding the effect of these 2007 and 2006 items, Other Food, Feed, and Industrial operating profits declined $44 million due primarily to cocoa processing operating results declining from prior year levels and costs related to the start up of the Companys natural plastics production operations. Cocoa processing operating results declined primarily due to increased industry production capacity which caused downward pressure on cocoa processing margins. These increases were partially offset by improved operating results of the Companys wheat flour processing and protein specialty operations. Other Financial operating profits increased $44 million principally due to increased valuations of the Companys private equity fund investments and higher operating results of the Companys futures commission merchant business, partially offset by lower operating results of the Companys captive insurance operations. The results of the Companys captive insurance operations for 2007 include a $12 million charge related to a Hurricane Katrina trade disruption insurance settlement. Corporate expense decreased $199 million to $7 million principally due to a $345 million increase in realized securities gains principally resulting from sales of the Companys equity securities of Tyson Foods, Inc. and Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc. and a $103 million reduction in unallocated interest expense due principally to higher levels of invested funds and higher interest rates. These decreases were partially offset by a $206 million charge, compared to a $12 million credit in the prior year, related to the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations and a $46 million charge related to the repurchase of $400 million of the Companys outstanding debentures. Income taxes increased due principally to higher pretax earnings and the absence of last years $36 million income tax credit related to the recognition of federal and state income tax credits and adjustments resulting from the reconciliation of filed tax returns to the previously estimated tax provision. The Companys effective tax rate during 2007 was 31.5% and, after excluding the effect of last years $36 million tax credit, was 31.2% for the prior year. The increase in the Companys effective tax rate is primarily due to changes in the geographic mix of pretax earnings. 2006 Compared to 2005 As an agricultural based commodity business, the Company is subject to a variety of market factors which affect the Companys operating results. Strong biodiesel demand in Europe continued to create increased vegetable oil demand and has positively impacted rapeseed crushing margins in Europe. Abundant oilseed supplies and strong protein meal demand have positively impacted oilseed crushing margins in North America. A good corn supply resulting in lower price levels for corn favorably impacted corn processing operations, while ethanol experienced good demand due to gasoline refiners replacing MTBE with ethanol. Solid demand for sweetener and starch products has also improved corn processing results. During the first half of 2006, hurricanes in the gulf coast region of the United States disrupted North American grain origination and agricultural commodity export operations, negatively impacting export sales volumes. The gulf coast hurricanes also disrupted river transportation, resulting in increased barge demand and barge freight rates. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Net earnings increased principally due to improved operating results of Oilseeds Processing and Corn Processing. In addition, net earnings also increased due to a $36 million reduction in income tax expense related to the recognition of federal and state income tax credits and adjustments resulting from the reconciliation of filed tax returns to the previously estimated tax provision. Earnings before income taxes for 2006 include charges of $31 million resulting from the Companys adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) Number 123(R), Share Based Payment, $15 million resulting from the Companys adoption of FIN 47, $71 million related to abandonment and write down of long lived assets, $9 million representing the Companys share of a charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets reported by an unconsolidated affiliate of the Company, and $22 million associated with the closure of a citric acid plant and exiting the European animal feed business. Earnings before income taxes for 2006 also include credits of $12 million from the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations, $17 million from the sale of long lived assets, $46 million related to Brazilian transactional tax credits, and $40 million related to realized securities gains. Earnings before income taxes for 2005 included credits of $114 million from the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations, $114 million of realized securities gain from the sale of Tate & Lyle PLC shares, and $45 million representing the Companys equity share of the gain reported by the Companys unconsolidated affiliate, Compagnie Industrielle et Financiere des Produits Amylaces SA (CIP), upon the sale of its interest in Tate & Lyle PLC (the CIP Gain). Earnings before income taxes for 2005 also include a $42 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Analysis of Statements of Earnings Net sales and other operating income increased 2% to $36.6 billion due primarily to higher average selling prices of agricultural commodities and increased sales volumes and selling prices of corn processing products, partially offset by decreased average selling prices of cocoa products and currency exchange rate decreases of $415 million. Net sales and other operating income by segment are as follows: 2006 2005 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing $ 11,867 $ 11,803 $ 64 Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 2,133 1,905 228 Bioproducts 2,727 2,459 268 Total Corn Processing 4,860 4,364 496 Agricultural Services 15,440 15,198 242 Other Food, Feed, and Industrial 4,354 4,506 (152 ) Financial 75 72 3 Total Other 4,429 4,578 (149 ) Total $ 36,596 $ 35,943 653 Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Oilseeds Processing sales increased $64 million to $11.9 billion principally due to higher average selling prices of South American oilseed exports and of vegetable oil. These increases were partially offset by lower average selling prices of protein meal. Corn Processing sales increased 11% to $4.9 billion due to sales increases in both Sweeteners and Starches and Bioproducts. Sweeteners and Starches sales increased due to higher average selling prices and sales volumes. Sales volumes and prices have increased primarily due to solid demand for sweetener and starch products. Bioproducts sales increased primarily due to increased sales volumes and average selling prices of ethanol, partially offset by lower average selling prices of lysine. The increases in ethanol sales volumes and sales prices were principally due to increased demand from gasoline refiners as refiners used ethanol to replace MTBE as a gasoline additive and to increased gasoline prices. Agricultural Services sales increased 2% to $15.4 billion primarily due to increased commodity prices in North America and, to a lesser extent, increased barge freight rates as the gulf coast hurricanes reduced barge capacities and created strong demand for North American river transportation. These increases were partially offset by decreased commodity sales volumes in North America. The decreased sales volumes were primarily due to disruptions in North American grain origination and export activities caused by the hurricanes in the gulf coast region. Other sales decreased 3% to $4.4 billion primarily due to decreased average selling prices of cocoa products and lower sales volumes of formula feed products. These decreases were partially offset by increased average selling prices of wheat flour products due to higher commodity prices. Cost of products sold increased $118 million to $33.6 billion due primarily to higher average prices of agricultural commodities and increased manufacturing costs, partially offset by currency exchange rate decreases of $389 million. Manufacturing costs increased $399 million primarily due to increased energy costs, an $86 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets, and increased employee related costs. Selling, general, and administrative expenses increased $112 million to $1.2 billion principally due to increased employee related costs, including a $31 million charge related to the adoption of SFAS 123(R), $20 million of severance costs associated with the closure of a citric acid plant, and increased provisions for doubtful accounts. Other income decreased $84 million due primarily to a $73 million decrease in realized securities gains, a $55 million decrease in equity in earnings of affiliates, and a $39 million increase in interest expense, partially offset by a $69 million increase in investment income. The decrease in realized securities gains is primarily due to the $114 million realized securities gain in 2005 from the sale of Tate & Lyle PLC shares, partially offset by $40 million of realized securities gains during 2006. The decrease in equity in earnings of affiliates is primarily due to the CIP Gain in 2005 and lower valuations of the Companys private equity fund investments in 2006, partially offset by improved earnings of the Companys Asian oilseed crushing ventures. Interest expense increased primarily due to higher average borrowing levels and interest rates. Investment income increased primarily due to the reversal of $19 million of Brazilian transactional taxes previously assessed on investment income upon positive resolution in the Brazilian Supreme Court, higher levels of invested funds, and higher interest rates. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Operating profit by segment is as follows: 2006 2005 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing $ 599 $ 345 $ 254 Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 431 271 160 Bioproducts 446 259 187 Total Corn Processing 877 530 347 Agricultural Services 275 262 13 Other Food, Feed, and Industrial 159 263 (104 ) Financial 151 151 Total Other 310 414 (104 ) Total Segment Operating Profit 2,061 1,551 510 Corporate (206 ) (35 ) (171 ) Earnings Before Income Taxes $ 1,855 $ 1,516 $ 339 Oilseeds Processing operating profits increased $254 million to $599 million primarily due to improved market conditions in all geographic regions. European processing results improved principally due to strong demand for biodiesel and abundant rapeseed supplies in Europe. This strong demand for biodiesel in Europe increased European vegetable oil demand and resulted in improved oilseeds processing results. Abundant rapeseed supplies in Europe resulted in lower rapeseed price levels. North American processing results improved principally due to abundant oilseed supplies in the United States and good demand for soybean meal. Vegetable oil values were solid as the markets anticipate new demand from the developing United States biodiesel industry. South American operating results increased primarily due to improved origination activities and a $27 million credit for Brazilian transactional taxes. Operating results in Asia increased due to improved soy crushing margins and improved palm operations. Operating profits include a $14 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets and a $6 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47. Operating profits for 2005 include a charge of $13 million for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Corn Processing operating profits increased $347 million to $877 million primarily due to higher average selling prices, increased sales volumes, and lower net corn costs, partially offset by increased energy costs. Sweeteners and Starches operating profits increased $160 million due primarily to decreased net corn costs and higher average sales prices and sales volumes. Sales volumes and prices have increased primarily due to good demand for sweetener and starch products. These increases were partially offset by increased energy costs. Sweeteners and Starches operating profits include a $5 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47. Bioproducts operating profits increased $187 million primarily due to higher ethanol sales volumes and average selling prices and decreased net corn costs, partially offset by increased energy costs and lower lysine average selling prices. The increases in ethanol sales volumes and average sales prices were principally due to increased demand from gasoline refiners as refiners used ethanol to replace MTBE as a gasoline additive and from increased gasoline prices. Bioproducts operating profits include a $6 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets, a $2 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47, and $6 million of costs related to the closure of a citric acid plant. Bioproducts operating profits for 2005 include a $16 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Agricultural Services operating profits increased $13 million to $275 million as improved results from transportation operations were partially offset by a decline in global grain merchandising and North American origination operating results. North American river transportation operating results increased primarily due to increased barge freight rates created by strong demand for barge capacity. This increase was partially offset by increased fuel costs. The gulf coast hurricanes negatively impacted North American origination and export activities during the first half of 2006. Other operating profits decreased $104 million to $310 million. Other Food, Feed, and Industrial operating results decreased $104 million due primarily to a $51 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets, a $2 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47, and a $9 million charge representing the Companys share of a charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets reported by an unconsolidated affiliate of the Company. In addition, cocoa processing, natural health and nutrition, and formula feed operating results declined from prior year levels. Cocoa processing operating results declined primarily due to increased industry capacity which caused downward pressure on cocoa finished product prices. Formula feed operating results declined due to costs associated with exiting the European animal feed business. Other Food, Feed, and Industrial operating profits include a $17 million gain from the sale of long lived assets. Other Food, Feed, and Industrial operating results for 2005 include a $13 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Other Financial operating profits are comparable to prior year levels as improvements in the Companys captive insurance operations and futures commission merchant business offset lower valuations of the Companys private equity fund investments. Corporate decreased $171 million due primarily to a $102 million decrease in income from the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations, the $114 million realized securities gain in 2005 from the sale of Tate & Lyle PLC shares, the CIP Gain in 2005, and a $22 million charge in 2006 upon the adoption of SFAS 123(R), partially offset by the aforementioned $19 million reversal of Brazilian transactional taxes and a $97 million reduction in unallocated interest expense. The reduction in unallocated interest expense is due principally to higher levels of invested funds and higher interest rates. Income taxes increased due principally to higher pretax earnings. This increase was partially offset by a $36 million reduction in income tax expense related to the recognition of federal and state income tax credits and adjustments resulting from the reconciliation of filed tax returns to the previously estimated tax provision. The Companys effective tax rate for 2006 was 29.3% as compared to 31.1% for 2005. Excluding the effect of the $36 million tax credit, the Companys effective tax rate was 31.2% for 2006 and, after excluding the effect of the CIP Gain, was 32.1% for 2005. No tax was provided on the CIP Gain in 2005, as CIP is a corporate joint venture of the Company and the proceeds from the sale are permanently reinvested. Excluding the effect of the $36 million tax credit in 2006 and the CIP Gain in 2005, the decrease in the Companys effective tax rate is primarily due to changes in the geographic mix of pretax earnings. Liquidity and Capital Resources The Companys objective is to have sufficient liquidity, balance sheet strength, and financial flexibility to fund the operating and capital requirements of a capital intensive agricultural based commodity business. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) At June 30, 2007, the Company continued to show substantial liquidity with working capital of $7.3 billion and a current ratio, defined as current assets divided by current liabilities, of 1.9 to 1. Included in working capital is $875 million of cash, cash equivalents, and short term marketable securities as well as $4.4 billion of readily marketable commodity inventories. Cash generated from operating activities totaled $303 million for the year compared to $1.4 billion last year. This decrease was primarily due to an increase in working capital requirements principally related to increased prices and quantities of agricultural commodity inventories and increased receivables, partially offset by increased cash earnings. Despite increased investment in property, plant, and equipment, cash used in investing activities decreased $714 million for the year to $355 million due primarily to increased sales of marketable securities and proceeds from sales of businesses including the sale of the Companys equity interests in Tyson Foods, Inc., Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc. and Agricore United. Cash used in financing activities was $398 million compared to cash generated by financing activities of $284 million last year. Net long term borrowings increased primarily as a result of the issuance of $1.2 billion of convertible senior notes in February 2007 (described in detail below), compared to $600 million of 30 year debentures issued in September 2005. This increase was partially offset by $283 million of increased payments on long term debt principally related to the Company retiring $400 million of debentures in 2007. Capital resources were strengthened as shown by the increase in the Companys net worth from $9.8 billion to $11.3 billion. The Companys ratio of long term debt to total capital (the sum of the Companys long term debt and shareholders equity) was 30% at June 30, 2007, and 29% at June 30, 2006. This ratio is a measure of the Companys long term liquidity and is an indicator of financial flexibility. The Company currently has $3.9 billion of commercial paper and commercial bank lines available to meet seasonal cash requirements of which $2.6 billion are committed and $1.3 billion are uncommitted. At June 30, 2007, the Company had $468 million of short term debt outstanding. Standard & Poors, Moodys, and Fitch rate the Companys commercial paper as A 1, P 1, and F1, respectively, and rate the Companys long term debt as A, A2, and A+, respectively. In addition to the cash flow generated from operations, the Company has access to equity and debt capital through numerous alternatives from public and private sources in domestic and international markets. In February 2007, the Company issued $1.2 billion principal amount of convertible senior notes due in 2014 (the Notes) in a private placement. The Notes were issued at par and bear interest at a rate of 0.875% per year, payable semiannually. The Notes are convertible based on an initial conversion rate of 22.8343 shares per $1,000 principal amount of Notes (which is equal to an initial conversion price of approximately $43.79 per share). The Notes may be converted, subject to adjustment, only under the following circumstances: 1) during any calendar quarter beginning after March 31, 2007, if the closing price of the Companys common stock for at least 20 trading days in the 30 consecutive trading days ending on the last trading day of the immediately preceding quarter is more than 140% of the applicable conversion price per share, which is $1,000 divided by the then applicable conversion rate, 2) during the five consecutive business day period immediately after any five consecutive trading day period (the note measurement period) in which the average of the trading price per $1,000 principal amount of Notes was equal to or less than 98% of the average of the product of the closing price of the Companys common stock and the conversion rate at each date during the note measurement period, 3) if the Company makes specified distributions to its common stockholders or specified corporate transactions occur, or 4) at any time on or after January 15, 2014, through the business day preceding the maturity date. Upon conversion, a holder would receive an amount in cash equal to the lesser of 1) $1,000 and 2) the conversion value, as defined. If the conversion value exceeds $1,000, the Company will deliver, at the Companys election, cash or common stock or a combination of cash and common stock for the conversion value in excess of $1,000. If the Notes are converted in connection with a change in control, as defined, the Company may be required to provide a make whole premium in the form of an increase in the conversion rate, subject to a stated maximum amount. In addition, in the event of a change in control, the holders may require the Company to purchase all or a portion of their Notes at a purchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Concurrent with the issuance of the Notes, the Company purchased call options in private transactions at a cost of $299 million. The purchased call options allow the Company to receive shares of its common stock and or cash from the counterparties equal to the amounts of common stock and or cash related to the excess of the current market price of the Companys common stock over the exercise price of the purchased call options. In addition, the Company sold warrants in private transactions to acquire, subject to customary anti dilution adjustments, 26.3 million shares of its common stock at an exercise price of $62.56 per share and received proceeds of $170 million. If the average price of the Companys common stock during a defined period ending on or about the respective settlement dates exceeds the exercise price of the warrants, the warrants will be settled, at the Companys option, in cash or shares of common stock. The purchased call options and warrants are intended to reduce the potential dilution upon future conversions of the Notes by effectively increasing the initial conversion price to $62.56 per share. Upon closing of the sale of the Notes, $370 million of the net proceeds from the Note issuance and the proceeds from the warrant transactions were used to repurchase 10.3 million shares of the Companys common stock under the Companys stock repurchase program. As of June 30, 2007, none of the conditions permitting conversion of the Notes had been satisfied. In addition, as of June 30, 2007, the market price of the Companys common stock was not greater than the exercise price of the purchased call options or warrants. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements In the normal course of business, the Company enters into contracts and commitments which obligate the Company to make payments in the future. The following table sets forth the Companys significant future obligations by time period. Purchases include commodity based contracts entered into in the normal course of business, which are further described in Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, energy related purchase contracts entered into in the normal course of business, and other purchase obligations related to the Companys normal business activities. Where applicable, information included in the Companys consolidated financial statements and notes is cross referenced in this table. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Payments Due by Period Contractual Note Less than 2 3 4 5 Over Obligations Reference Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years (In millions) Purchases Inventories $ 11,113 $ 10,312 $ 535 $ 159 $ 107 Energy 429 269 152 7 1 Other 217 67 94 43 13 Total purchases 11,759 10,648 781 209 121 Short term debt Note 7 468 468 Long term debt Note 7 4,897 65 92 425 4,315 Estimated interest payments 5,752 290 509 474 4,479 Operating leases Note 12 900 318 241 132 209 Estimated pension and other postretirement plan contributions Note 13 1,045 79 173 195 598 Total $ 24,821 $ 11,868 $ 1,796 $ 1,435 $ 9,722 At June 30, 2007, the Company estimates it will spend approximately $3.0 billion over the next four years to complete approved capital projects and acquisitions. The Company is a limited partner in various private equity funds which invest primarily in emerging markets. At June 30, 2007, the Companys carrying value of these limited partnership investments was $165 million. The Company has future capital commitments related to these partnerships of $138 million and expects the majority of these additional capital commitments, if called for, to be funded by cash flows generated by the partnerships. The Company also has outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds of $339 million at June 30, 2007. In addition, the Company has entered into agreements, primarily debt guarantee agreements related to equity method investees, which could obligate the Company to make future payments. The Companys liability under these agreements arises only if the primary entity fails to perform its contractual obligation. The Company has collateral for a portion of these contingent obligations. At June 30, 2007, these contingent obligations totaled approximately $98 million. Amounts outstanding for the primary entity under these contingent obligations were $51 million at June 30, 2007. Critical Accounting Policies The process of preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the carrying values of the Companys assets and liabilities as well as the recognition of revenues and expenses. These estimates and judgments are based on the Companys historical experience and managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Certain of the Companys accounting policies are considered critical, as these policies are important to the depiction of the Companys financial statements and require significant or complex judgment by management. Management has discussed with the Companys Audit Committee the development, selection, disclosure, and application of these critical accounting policies. Following are the accounting policies management considers critical to the Companys financial statements. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Inventories and Derivatives Certain of the Companys merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, forward fixed price purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and options contracts are valued at estimated market values. These merchandisable agricultural commodities are freely traded, have quoted market prices, and may be sold without significant additional processing. Management estimates market value based on exchange quoted prices, adjusted for differences in local markets. Changes in the market values of these inventories and contracts are recognized in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. If management used different methods or factors to estimate market value, amounts reported as inventories and cost of products sold could differ. Additionally, if market conditions change subsequent to year end, amounts reported in future periods as inventories and cost of products sold could differ. The Company, from time to time, uses derivative contracts to fix the purchase price of anticipated volumes of commodities to be purchased and processed in a future month, to fix the purchase price of the Companys anticipated natural gas requirements for certain production facilities, and to fix the sales price of anticipated volumes of ethanol. These derivative contracts are designated as cash flow hedges. The change in the market value of such derivative contracts has historically been, and is expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. If it is determined that the derivative instruments used are no longer effective at offsetting changes in the price of the hedged item, then the changes in the market value of these exchange traded futures contracts would be recorded in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. Employee Benefit Plans The Company provides substantially all domestic employees and employees at certain international subsidiaries with pension benefits. The Company also provides substantially all domestic salaried employees with postretirement health care and life insurance benefits. In order to measure the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans, management makes several estimates and assumptions, including interest rates used to discount certain liabilities, rates of return on assets set aside to fund these plans, rates of compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and anticipated future health care costs. These estimates and assumptions are based on the Companys historical experience combined with managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Management also uses third party specialists to assist in measuring the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans. If management used different estimates and assumptions regarding these plans, the funded status of the plans could vary significantly, and the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Income Taxes The Company frequently faces challenges from domestic and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company records reserves for probable exposures. Deferred tax assets represent items to be used as tax deductions or credits in future tax returns, and the related tax benefit has already been recognized in the Companys income statement. Realization of certain deferred tax assets reflects the Companys tax planning strategies. Valuation allowances related to these deferred tax assets have been established to the extent the realization of the tax benefit is not probable. Based on managements evaluation of the Companys tax position, it is believed the amounts related to these tax exposures are appropriately accrued. To the extent the Company were to favorably resolve matters for which accruals have been established or be required to pay amounts in excess of the aforementioned reserves, the Companys effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be impacted. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and affiliated corporate joint ventures accounted for on the equity method are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by unpredictable factors such as weather, plantings, government (domestic and foreign) farm programs and policies, changes in population growth, changes in standards of living, and production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned unpredictable factors, therefore, may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and profitability of the Companys fixed asset base in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its factories. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment and technology related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. Assets are abandoned after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of this fixed asset base, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Valuation of Marketable Securities and Investments in Affiliates The Company classifies the majority of its marketable securities as available for sale and carries these securities at fair value. Investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings. For publicly traded securities, the fair value of the Companys investments is readily available based on quoted market prices. For non publicly traded securities, managements assessment of fair value is based on valuation methodologies including discounted cash flows and estimates of sales proceeds. In the event of a decline in fair value of an investment below carrying value, management may be required to determine if the decline in fair value is other than temporary. In evaluating the nature of a decline in the fair value of an investment, management considers the market conditions, trends of earnings, discounted cash flows, trading volumes, and other key measures of the investment as well as the Companys ability and intent to hold the investment. When such a decline in value is deemed to be other than temporary, an impairment loss is recognized in the current period operating results to the extent of the decline. See Notes 3 and 5 to the Companys consolidated financial statements for information regarding the Companys marketable securities and investments in affiliates. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these marketable securities, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) The Company is a limited partner in various private equity funds which invest primarily in emerging markets. The Company accounts for these limited partnerships using the equity method of accounting. Therefore, the Company is recording in the consolidated statement of earnings its proportional share of the limited partnerships net income or loss. The limited partnerships value their investments at fair value. Thus, unrealized gains and losses related to the change in fair value of these investments are recorded in the limited partnerships statements of earnings. The valuation of these investments, as determined by the general partner, can be subjective, and the values may vary significantly. Some of the factors causing the subjectivity and volatility of these valuations include the illiquidity and minority positions of these investments, currency exchange rate fluctuations, less regulated securities exchanges, and the inherent business risks and limitations present in the emerging market countries. The Company records the results of these limited partnerships based on the information provided to the Company by the general partner. Due to the subjectivity and volatility in valuing these investments, the fair value of these investments, and thus the Companys results, could vary significantly over future periods. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in commodities futures prices, marketable equity security prices, market prices of limited partnerships investments, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and price of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to unpredictable factors such as weather, plantings, government (domestic and foreign) farm programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. To reduce price risk caused by market fluctuations, the Company generally follows a policy of using exchange traded futures and options contracts to minimize its net position of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories and forward cash purchase and sales contracts. The Company will also use exchange traded futures and options contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the volatility of the relationship between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contracts defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company from time to time enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) A sensitivity analysis has been prepared to estimate the Companys exposure to market risk of its daily net commodity position. The Companys daily net commodity position consists of inventories, related purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures contracts, including those contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements. The fair value of such daily net commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing each net position at quoted futures prices. Market risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in such prices. Actual results may differ. 2007 2006 Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest long position $ 703 $ 70 $ 510 $ 51 Highest short position 565 57 574 57 Average position long (short) 180 18 (203 ) (20 ) The change in fair value of the average position for 2007 compared to 2006 was principally a result of changes in the daily net commodity position and commodity prices. Marketable Equity Securities Marketable equity securities, which are recorded at fair value, have exposure to price risk. The fair value of marketable equity securities is based on quoted market prices. Risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted market prices. Actual results may differ. 2007 2006 (In millions) Fair value $ 227 $ 640 Market risk 23 64 The decrease in fair value for 2007 compared to 2006 resulted primarily from disposals of securities partially offset by increases in fair market value of certain securities. Limited Partnerships The Company is a limited partner in various private equity funds which invest primarily in emerging markets. The Company accounts for these limited partnerships using the equity method of accounting. Therefore, the Company is recording in the consolidated statement of earnings its proportional share of the limited partnerships net income or loss. The limited partnerships value their investments at fair value. Risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in market prices of the limited partnerships investments. Actual results may differ. 2007 2006 (In millions) Fair value of partnerships investments $ 188 $ 210 Market risk 19 21 The decrease in fair value for 2007 compared to 2006 resulted primarily from returns of capital. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) Currencies In order to reduce the risk of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, except for amounts permanently invested as described below, the Company follows a policy of entering into currency exchange forward contracts to mitigate its foreign currency risk related to transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currencies applicable to each of its various entities. The instruments used are readily marketable exchange traded futures contracts and forward contracts with banks. The changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $5.4 billion at June 30, 2007, and $4.5 billion at June 30, 2006. This increase is due to an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and appreciation of foreign currency exchange rates. The potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $543 million and $454 million for 2007 and 2006, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical .5 % decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2007 2006 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 4,927 $ 4,387 Excess of fair value over carrying value 110 257 Market risk 204 218 The increase in fair value of long term debt in 2007 resulted principally from the Companys issuance of $1.2 billion convertible senior notes partially offset by repayment of $400 million of debentures and other principal payments of long term debt. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Selling, general, and administrative expenses of $1.2 billion were comparable to 2006 and include $25 million of currency exchange rate increases. Excluding the impact of currency exchange rate increases, selling, general and administrative expenses decreased $23 million principally due to 2006 selling, general and administrative expenses including $20 million of severance costs associated with the closure of a citric acid plant. During 2007 and 2006, the Company issued option grants and restricted stock awards to officers and key employees pursuant to the Companys Long term Management Incentive Program. Certain officers and key employees of the Company receiving option grants and restricted stock awards are eligible for retirement. Compensation expense related to option grants and restricted stock awards issued to these retirement eligible employees is recognized in earnings on the date of grant. Selling, general, and administrative expense for 2007 and 2006 includes compensation expense related to option grants and restricted stock awards granted to retirement eligible employees of $30 million and $31 million, respectively. Other income increased $1.0 billion primarily due to the $440 million Wilmar Gain, a $357 million gain on the sale of the Companys equity securities of Tyson Foods, Inc. and Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc., a $153 million gain on the sale of the Companys interest in Agricore United, and a $53 million gain on the sale of the Companys Arkady food ingredient business. Other income also includes a $46 million charge related to the repurchase of $400 million of the Companys outstanding debentures. Excluding these items, other income increased $73 million primarily due to a $120 million increase in equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates, and a $53 million increase in investment income, partially offset by a $69 million increase in interest expense and a $27 million reduction in gains on sales of long lived assets. The increase in equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates is primarily due to higher valuations of the Companys private equity fund investments and improved operating results of the Companys Asian oilseed crushing ventures. Interest expense and investment income increased primarily due to increased average borrowing and investment levels. Operating profit by segment is as follows: 2007 2006 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing $ 1,117 $ 599 $ 518 Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 485 432 53 Bioproducts 634 445 189 Total Corn Processing 1,119 877 242 Agricultural Services 516 275 241 Other Food, Feed, and Industrial 214 159 55 Financial 195 151 44 Total Other 409 310 99 Total Segment Operating Profit 3,161 2,061 1,100 Corporate (7 ) (206 ) 199 Earnings Before Income Taxes $ 3,154 $ 1,855 $ 1,299 Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Oilseeds Processing operating profits increased $518 million to $1.1 billion due to the $440 million Wilmar Gain and improved market conditions in all geographic regions. North American processing results improved principally due to abundant oilseed supplies in the United States and good demand for vegetable oil and soybean meal. Vegetable oil values improved as the markets anticipate new demand from the developing United States biodiesel industry. North American processing results were also favorably impacted by lower plant operating costs resulting from improved capacity utilization. Asian joint venture results improved due to improved palm processing operating results partially offset by decreased soy crushing operating results. European processing results improved principally due to abundant oilseed supplies in Europe and strong demand for vegetable oil. The strong demand for vegetable oil is the result of strong biodiesel demand. These increases were partially offset by decreased biodiesel operating profits resulting from higher vegetable oil prices, increased market production capacity, and lower diesel fuel prices. South American processing results declined principally due to last years $27 million credit for Brazilian transactional taxes. Excluding the impact of last years credit for Brazilian transactional taxes, South American processing results improved principally due to increased fertilizer margins. The improvement in fertilizer margins was primarily due to higher average sales prices due to improved fertilizer demand combined with stable raw material costs. Operating profits for 2007 include a $5 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Operating profits for 2006 include a $14 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets and a $6 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47. Corn Processing operating profits increased $242 million to $1.1 billion principally due to higher average selling prices and lower energy costs, partially offset by lower ethanol sales volumes and higher net corn costs. Net corn costs have increased approximately 60% during 2007 due to significant demand increases for corn resulting primarily from the increase in corn derived ethanol industry capacity. Agricultural commodity market concerns regarding the expected decline in the ending 2006 corn crop carryover has also contributed to the increase in corn costs. Sweeteners and Starches operating profits increased $53 million due primarily to higher average sales prices and lower energy costs. Sales prices have increased principally due to good demand for sweetener and starch products. These increases were partially offset by increased net corn costs. Sweeteners and Starches operating profits for 2006 include a $5 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47. Bioproducts operating profits increased $189 million primarily due to higher ethanol average selling prices and lower energy costs, partially offset by increased net corn costs and lower ethanol sales volumes. Ethanol average sales prices increased principally due to strong demand from gasoline refiners and higher gasoline prices. Ethanol sales volumes decreased as 2006 sales volumes exceeded production due to the release of inventories built up in anticipation of refiners replacing MTBE with ethanol. Bioproducts operating results for 2007 include a $1 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Bioproducts operating results for 2006 include a $6 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets, a $2 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47, and $6 million of costs related to the closure of a citric acid plant. Agricultural Services operating profits increased $241 million to $516 million principally due to a $153 million gain from the sale of the Companys interest in Agricore United, a Canadian business which specialized in crop input, crop protection services, and grain marketing and merchandising. Excluding the Agricore United gain, Agricultural Services operating profits increased $88 million to $363 million principally due to improved global grain merchandising operating results and, to a lesser extent, improved transportation and North American origination operating results. Global grain merchandising results improved as regional production imbalances allowed the Company to capitalize on merchandising opportunities. North American river transportation operating results increased primarily due to increased barge freight rates created by strong demand for barge capacity. North American origination operating results improved due to good export demand for agricultural commodities and higher ocean freight rates. Agricultural Services operating profits for 2007 include a $12 million trade disruption insurance recovery related to Hurricane Katrina. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Other operating profits increased $99 million to $409 million. Other Food, Feed, and Industrial operating profits increased $55 million and include a $53 million gain on the sale of the Companys Arkady food ingredient business and a $15 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Other Food, Feed, and Industrial operating results for 2006 include a $51 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets, a $2 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47, a $9 million charge representing the Companys share of a charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets reported by an unconsolidated affiliate of the Company, a $17 million gain from the sale of long lived assets, and a $16 million charge related to exiting the European animal feed business. Excluding the effect of these 2007 and 2006 items, Other Food, Feed, and Industrial operating profits declined $44 million due primarily to cocoa processing operating results declining from prior year levels and costs related to the start up of the Companys natural plastics production operations. Cocoa processing operating results declined primarily due to increased industry production capacity which caused downward pressure on cocoa processing margins. These increases were partially offset by improved operating results of the Companys wheat flour processing and protein specialty operations. Other Financial operating profits increased $44 million principally due to increased valuations of the Companys private equity fund investments and higher operating results of the Companys futures commission merchant business, partially offset by lower operating results of the Companys captive insurance operations. The results of the Companys captive insurance operations for 2007 include a $12 million charge related to a Hurricane Katrina trade disruption insurance settlement. Corporate expense decreased $199 million to $7 million principally due to a $345 million increase in realized securities gains principally resulting from sales of the Companys equity securities of Tyson Foods, Inc. and Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc. and a $103 million reduction in unallocated interest expense due principally to higher levels of invested funds and higher interest rates. These decreases were partially offset by a $206 million charge, compared to a $12 million credit in the prior year, related to the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations and a $46 million charge related to the repurchase of $400 million of the Companys outstanding debentures. Income taxes increased due principally to higher pretax earnings and the absence of last years $36 million income tax credit related to the recognition of federal and state income tax credits and adjustments resulting from the reconciliation of filed tax returns to the previously estimated tax provision. The Companys effective tax rate during 2007 was 31.5% and, after excluding the effect of last years $36 million tax credit, was 31.2% for the prior year. The increase in the Companys effective tax rate is primarily due to changes in the geographic mix of pretax earnings. 2006 Compared to 2005 As an agricultural based commodity business, the Company is subject to a variety of market factors which affect the Companys operating results. Strong biodiesel demand in Europe continued to create increased vegetable oil demand and has positively impacted rapeseed crushing margins in Europe. Abundant oilseed supplies and strong protein meal demand have positively impacted oilseed crushing margins in North America. A good corn supply resulting in lower price levels for corn favorably impacted corn processing operations, while ethanol experienced good demand due to gasoline refiners replacing MTBE with ethanol. Solid demand for sweetener and starch products has also improved corn processing results. During the first half of 2006, hurricanes in the gulf coast region of the United States disrupted North American grain origination and agricultural commodity export operations, negatively impacting export sales volumes. The gulf coast hurricanes also disrupted river transportation, resulting in increased barge demand and barge freight rates. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Net earnings increased principally due to improved operating results of Oilseeds Processing and Corn Processing. In addition, net earnings also increased due to a $36 million reduction in income tax expense related to the recognition of federal and state income tax credits and adjustments resulting from the reconciliation of filed tax returns to the previously estimated tax provision. Earnings before income taxes for 2006 include charges of $31 million resulting from the Companys adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) Number 123(R), Share Based Payment, $15 million resulting from the Companys adoption of FIN 47, $71 million related to abandonment and write down of long lived assets, $9 million representing the Companys share of a charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets reported by an unconsolidated affiliate of the Company, and $22 million associated with the closure of a citric acid plant and exiting the European animal feed business. Earnings before income taxes for 2006 also include credits of $12 million from the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations, $17 million from the sale of long lived assets, $46 million related to Brazilian transactional tax credits, and $40 million related to realized securities gains. Earnings before income taxes for 2005 included credits of $114 million from the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations, $114 million of realized securities gain from the sale of Tate & Lyle PLC shares, and $45 million representing the Companys equity share of the gain reported by the Companys unconsolidated affiliate, Compagnie Industrielle et Financiere des Produits Amylaces SA (CIP), upon the sale of its interest in Tate & Lyle PLC (the CIP Gain). Earnings before income taxes for 2005 also include a $42 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Analysis of Statements of Earnings Net sales and other operating income increased 2% to $36.6 billion due primarily to higher average selling prices of agricultural commodities and increased sales volumes and selling prices of corn processing products, partially offset by decreased average selling prices of cocoa products and currency exchange rate decreases of $415 million. Net sales and other operating income by segment are as follows: 2006 2005 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing $ 11,867 $ 11,803 $ 64 Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 2,133 1,905 228 Bioproducts 2,727 2,459 268 Total Corn Processing 4,860 4,364 496 Agricultural Services 15,440 15,198 242 Other Food, Feed, and Industrial 4,354 4,506 (152 ) Financial 75 72 3 Total Other 4,429 4,578 (149 ) Total $ 36,596 $ 35,943 653 Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Oilseeds Processing sales increased $64 million to $11.9 billion principally due to higher average selling prices of South American oilseed exports and of vegetable oil. These increases were partially offset by lower average selling prices of protein meal. Corn Processing sales increased 11% to $4.9 billion due to sales increases in both Sweeteners and Starches and Bioproducts. Sweeteners and Starches sales increased due to higher average selling prices and sales volumes. Sales volumes and prices have increased primarily due to solid demand for sweetener and starch products. Bioproducts sales increased primarily due to increased sales volumes and average selling prices of ethanol, partially offset by lower average selling prices of lysine. The increases in ethanol sales volumes and sales prices were principally due to increased demand from gasoline refiners as refiners used ethanol to replace MTBE as a gasoline additive and to increased gasoline prices. Agricultural Services sales increased 2% to $15.4 billion primarily due to increased commodity prices in North America and, to a lesser extent, increased barge freight rates as the gulf coast hurricanes reduced barge capacities and created strong demand for North American river transportation. These increases were partially offset by decreased commodity sales volumes in North America. The decreased sales volumes were primarily due to disruptions in North American grain origination and export activities caused by the hurricanes in the gulf coast region. Other sales decreased 3% to $4.4 billion primarily due to decreased average selling prices of cocoa products and lower sales volumes of formula feed products. These decreases were partially offset by increased average selling prices of wheat flour products due to higher commodity prices. Cost of products sold increased $118 million to $33.6 billion due primarily to higher average prices of agricultural commodities and increased manufacturing costs, partially offset by currency exchange rate decreases of $389 million. Manufacturing costs increased $399 million primarily due to increased energy costs, an $86 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets, and increased employee related costs. Selling, general, and administrative expenses increased $112 million to $1.2 billion principally due to increased employee related costs, including a $31 million charge related to the adoption of SFAS 123(R), $20 million of severance costs associated with the closure of a citric acid plant, and increased provisions for doubtful accounts. Other income decreased $84 million due primarily to a $73 million decrease in realized securities gains, a $55 million decrease in equity in earnings of affiliates, and a $39 million increase in interest expense, partially offset by a $69 million increase in investment income. The decrease in realized securities gains is primarily due to the $114 million realized securities gain in 2005 from the sale of Tate & Lyle PLC shares, partially offset by $40 million of realized securities gains during 2006. The decrease in equity in earnings of affiliates is primarily due to the CIP Gain in 2005 and lower valuations of the Companys private equity fund investments in 2006, partially offset by improved earnings of the Companys Asian oilseed crushing ventures. Interest expense increased primarily due to higher average borrowing levels and interest rates. Investment income increased primarily due to the reversal of $19 million of Brazilian transactional taxes previously assessed on investment income upon positive resolution in the Brazilian Supreme Court, higher levels of invested funds, and higher interest rates. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Operating profit by segment is as follows: 2006 2005 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing $ 599 $ 345 $ 254 Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 431 271 160 Bioproducts 446 259 187 Total Corn Processing 877 530 347 Agricultural Services 275 262 13 Other Food, Feed, and Industrial 159 263 (104 ) Financial 151 151 Total Other 310 414 (104 ) Total Segment Operating Profit 2,061 1,551 510 Corporate (206 ) (35 ) (171 ) Earnings Before Income Taxes $ 1,855 $ 1,516 $ 339 Oilseeds Processing operating profits increased $254 million to $599 million primarily due to improved market conditions in all geographic regions. European processing results improved principally due to strong demand for biodiesel and abundant rapeseed supplies in Europe. This strong demand for biodiesel in Europe increased European vegetable oil demand and resulted in improved oilseeds processing results. Abundant rapeseed supplies in Europe resulted in lower rapeseed price levels. North American processing results improved principally due to abundant oilseed supplies in the United States and good demand for soybean meal. Vegetable oil values were solid as the markets anticipate new demand from the developing United States biodiesel industry. South American operating results increased primarily due to improved origination activities and a $27 million credit for Brazilian transactional taxes. Operating results in Asia increased due to improved soy crushing margins and improved palm operations. Operating profits include a $14 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets and a $6 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47. Operating profits for 2005 include a charge of $13 million for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Corn Processing operating profits increased $347 million to $877 million primarily due to higher average selling prices, increased sales volumes, and lower net corn costs, partially offset by increased energy costs. Sweeteners and Starches operating profits increased $160 million due primarily to decreased net corn costs and higher average sales prices and sales volumes. Sales volumes and prices have increased primarily due to good demand for sweetener and starch products. These increases were partially offset by increased energy costs. Sweeteners and Starches operating profits include a $5 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47. Bioproducts operating profits increased $187 million primarily due to higher ethanol sales volumes and average selling prices and decreased net corn costs, partially offset by increased energy costs and lower lysine average selling prices. The increases in ethanol sales volumes and average sales prices were principally due to increased demand from gasoline refiners as refiners used ethanol to replace MTBE as a gasoline additive and from increased gasoline prices. Bioproducts operating profits include a $6 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets, a $2 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47, and $6 million of costs related to the closure of a citric acid plant. Bioproducts operating profits for 2005 include a $16 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Agricultural Services operating profits increased $13 million to $275 million as improved results from transportation operations were partially offset by a decline in global grain merchandising and North American origination operating results. North American river transportation operating results increased primarily due to increased barge freight rates created by strong demand for barge capacity. This increase was partially offset by increased fuel costs. The gulf coast hurricanes negatively impacted North American origination and export activities during the first half of 2006. Other operating profits decreased $104 million to $310 million. Other Food, Feed, and Industrial operating results decreased $104 million due primarily to a $51 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets, a $2 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47, and a $9 million charge representing the Companys share of a charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets reported by an unconsolidated affiliate of the Company. In addition, cocoa processing, natural health and nutrition, and formula feed operating results declined from prior year levels. Cocoa processing operating results declined primarily due to increased industry capacity which caused downward pressure on cocoa finished product prices. Formula feed operating results declined due to costs associated with exiting the European animal feed business. Other Food, Feed, and Industrial operating profits include a $17 million gain from the sale of long lived assets. Other Food, Feed, and Industrial operating results for 2005 include a $13 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Other Financial operating profits are comparable to prior year levels as improvements in the Companys captive insurance operations and futures commission merchant business offset lower valuations of the Companys private equity fund investments. Corporate decreased $171 million due primarily to a $102 million decrease in income from the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations, the $114 million realized securities gain in 2005 from the sale of Tate & Lyle PLC shares, the CIP Gain in 2005, and a $22 million charge in 2006 upon the adoption of SFAS 123(R), partially offset by the aforementioned $19 million reversal of Brazilian transactional taxes and a $97 million reduction in unallocated interest expense. The reduction in unallocated interest expense is due principally to higher levels of invested funds and higher interest rates. Income taxes increased due principally to higher pretax earnings. This increase was partially offset by a $36 million reduction in income tax expense related to the recognition of federal and state income tax credits and adjustments resulting from the reconciliation of filed tax returns to the previously estimated tax provision. The Companys effective tax rate for 2006 was 29.3% as compared to 31.1% for 2005. Excluding the effect of the $36 million tax credit, the Companys effective tax rate was 31.2% for 2006 and, after excluding the effect of the CIP Gain, was 32.1% for 2005. No tax was provided on the CIP Gain in 2005, as CIP is a corporate joint venture of the Company and the proceeds from the sale are permanently reinvested. Excluding the effect of the $36 million tax credit in 2006 and the CIP Gain in 2005, the decrease in the Companys effective tax rate is primarily due to changes in the geographic mix of pretax earnings. Liquidity and Capital Resources The Companys objective is to have sufficient liquidity, balance sheet strength, and financial flexibility to fund the operating and capital requirements of a capital intensive agricultural based commodity business. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) At June 30, 2007, the Company continued to show substantial liquidity with working capital of $7.3 billion and a current ratio, defined as current assets divided by current liabilities, of 1.9 to 1. Included in working capital is $875 million of cash, cash equivalents, and short term marketable securities as well as $4.4 billion of readily marketable commodity inventories. Cash generated from operating activities totaled $303 million for the year compared to $1.4 billion last year. This decrease was primarily due to an increase in working capital requirements principally related to increased prices and quantities of agricultural commodity inventories and increased receivables, partially offset by increased cash earnings. Despite increased investment in property, plant, and equipment, cash used in investing activities decreased $714 million for the year to $355 million due primarily to increased sales of marketable securities and proceeds from sales of businesses including the sale of the Companys equity interests in Tyson Foods, Inc., Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc. and Agricore United. Cash used in financing activities was $398 million compared to cash generated by financing activities of $284 million last year. Net long term borrowings increased primarily as a result of the issuance of $1.2 billion of convertible senior notes in February 2007 (described in detail below), compared to $600 million of 30 year debentures issued in September 2005. This increase was partially offset by $283 million of increased payments on long term debt principally related to the Company retiring $400 million of debentures in 2007. Capital resources were strengthened as shown by the increase in the Companys net worth from $9.8 billion to $11.3 billion. The Companys ratio of long term debt to total capital (the sum of the Companys long term debt and shareholders equity) was 30% at June 30, 2007, and 29% at June 30, 2006. This ratio is a measure of the Companys long term liquidity and is an indicator of financial flexibility. The Company currently has $3.9 billion of commercial paper and commercial bank lines available to meet seasonal cash requirements of which $2.6 billion are committed and $1.3 billion are uncommitted. At June 30, 2007, the Company had $468 million of short term debt outstanding. Standard & Poors, Moodys, and Fitch rate the Companys commercial paper as A 1, P 1, and F1, respectively, and rate the Companys long term debt as A, A2, and A+, respectively. In addition to the cash flow generated from operations, the Company has access to equity and debt capital through numerous alternatives from public and private sources in domestic and international markets. In February 2007, the Company issued $1.2 billion principal amount of convertible senior notes due in 2014 (the Notes) in a private placement. The Notes were issued at par and bear interest at a rate of 0.875% per year, payable semiannually. The Notes are convertible based on an initial conversion rate of 22.8343 shares per $1,000 principal amount of Notes (which is equal to an initial conversion price of approximately $43.79 per share). The Notes may be converted, subject to adjustment, only under the following circumstances: 1) during any calendar quarter beginning after March 31, 2007, if the closing price of the Companys common stock for at least 20 trading days in the 30 consecutive trading days ending on the last trading day of the immediately preceding quarter is more than 140% of the applicable conversion price per share, which is $1,000 divided by the then applicable conversion rate, 2) during the five consecutive business day period immediately after any five consecutive trading day period (the note measurement period) in which the average of the trading price per $1,000 principal amount of Notes was equal to or less than 98% of the average of the product of the closing price of the Companys common stock and the conversion rate at each date during the note measurement period, 3) if the Company makes specified distributions to its common stockholders or specified corporate transactions occur, or 4) at any time on or after January 15, 2014, through the business day preceding the maturity date. Upon conversion, a holder would receive an amount in cash equal to the lesser of 1) $1,000 and 2) the conversion value, as defined. If the conversion value exceeds $1,000, the Company will deliver, at the Companys election, cash or common stock or a combination of cash and common stock for the conversion value in excess of $1,000. If the Notes are converted in connection with a change in control, as defined, the Company may be required to provide a make whole premium in the form of an increase in the conversion rate, subject to a stated maximum amount. In addition, in the event of a change in control, the holders may require the Company to purchase all or a portion of their Notes at a purchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Concurrent with the issuance of the Notes, the Company purchased call options in private transactions at a cost of $299 million. The purchased call options allow the Company to receive shares of its common stock and or cash from the counterparties equal to the amounts of common stock and or cash related to the excess of the current market price of the Companys common stock over the exercise price of the purchased call options. In addition, the Company sold warrants in private transactions to acquire, subject to customary anti dilution adjustments, 26.3 million shares of its common stock at an exercise price of $62.56 per share and received proceeds of $170 million. If the average price of the Companys common stock during a defined period ending on or about the respective settlement dates exceeds the exercise price of the warrants, the warrants will be settled, at the Companys option, in cash or shares of common stock. The purchased call options and warrants are intended to reduce the potential dilution upon future conversions of the Notes by effectively increasing the initial conversion price to $62.56 per share. Upon closing of the sale of the Notes, $370 million of the net proceeds from the Note issuance and the proceeds from the warrant transactions were used to repurchase 10.3 million shares of the Companys common stock under the Companys stock repurchase program. As of June 30, 2007, none of the conditions permitting conversion of the Notes had been satisfied. In addition, as of June 30, 2007, the market price of the Companys common stock was not greater than the exercise price of the purchased call options or warrants. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements In the normal course of business, the Company enters into contracts and commitments which obligate the Company to make payments in the future. The following table sets forth the Companys significant future obligations by time period. Purchases include commodity based contracts entered into in the normal course of business, which are further described in Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, energy related purchase contracts entered into in the normal course of business, and other purchase obligations related to the Companys normal business activities. Where applicable, information included in the Companys consolidated financial statements and notes is cross referenced in this table. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Payments Due by Period Contractual Note Less than 2 3 4 5 Over Obligations Reference Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years (In millions) Purchases Inventories $ 11,113 $ 10,312 $ 535 $ 159 $ 107 Energy 429 269 152 7 1 Other 217 67 94 43 13 Total purchases 11,759 10,648 781 209 121 Short term debt Note 7 468 468 Long term debt Note 7 4,897 65 92 425 4,315 Estimated interest payments 5,752 290 509 474 4,479 Operating leases Note 12 900 318 241 132 209 Estimated pension and other postretirement plan contributions Note 13 1,045 79 173 195 598 Total $ 24,821 $ 11,868 $ 1,796 $ 1,435 $ 9,722 At June 30, 2007, the Company estimates it will spend approximately $3.0 billion over the next four years to complete approved capital projects and acquisitions. The Company is a limited partner in various private equity funds which invest primarily in emerging markets. At June 30, 2007, the Companys carrying value of these limited partnership investments was $165 million. The Company has future capital commitments related to these partnerships of $138 million and expects the majority of these additional capital commitments, if called for, to be funded by cash flows generated by the partnerships. The Company also has outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds of $339 million at June 30, 2007. In addition, the Company has entered into agreements, primarily debt guarantee agreements related to equity method investees, which could obligate the Company to make future payments. The Companys liability under these agreements arises only if the primary entity fails to perform its contractual obligation. The Company has collateral for a portion of these contingent obligations. At June 30, 2007, these contingent obligations totaled approximately $98 million. Amounts outstanding for the primary entity under these contingent obligations were $51 million at June 30, 2007. Critical Accounting Policies The process of preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the carrying values of the Companys assets and liabilities as well as the recognition of revenues and expenses. These estimates and judgments are based on the Companys historical experience and managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Certain of the Companys accounting policies are considered critical, as these policies are important to the depiction of the Companys financial statements and require significant or complex judgment by management. Management has discussed with the Companys Audit Committee the development, selection, disclosure, and application of these critical accounting policies. Following are the accounting policies management considers critical to the Companys financial statements. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Inventories and Derivatives Certain of the Companys merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, forward fixed price purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and options contracts are valued at estimated market values. These merchandisable agricultural commodities are freely traded, have quoted market prices, and may be sold without significant additional processing. Management estimates market value based on exchange quoted prices, adjusted for differences in local markets. Changes in the market values of these inventories and contracts are recognized in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. If management used different methods or factors to estimate market value, amounts reported as inventories and cost of products sold could differ. Additionally, if market conditions change subsequent to year end, amounts reported in future periods as inventories and cost of products sold could differ. The Company, from time to time, uses derivative contracts to fix the purchase price of anticipated volumes of commodities to be purchased and processed in a future month, to fix the purchase price of the Companys anticipated natural gas requirements for certain production facilities, and to fix the sales price of anticipated volumes of ethanol. These derivative contracts are designated as cash flow hedges. The change in the market value of such derivative contracts has historically been, and is expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. If it is determined that the derivative instruments used are no longer effective at offsetting changes in the price of the hedged item, then the changes in the market value of these exchange traded futures contracts would be recorded in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. Employee Benefit Plans The Company provides substantially all domestic employees and employees at certain international subsidiaries with pension benefits. The Company also provides substantially all domestic salaried employees with postretirement health care and life insurance benefits. In order to measure the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans, management makes several estimates and assumptions, including interest rates used to discount certain liabilities, rates of return on assets set aside to fund these plans, rates of compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and anticipated future health care costs. These estimates and assumptions are based on the Companys historical experience combined with managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Management also uses third party specialists to assist in measuring the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans. If management used different estimates and assumptions regarding these plans, the funded status of the plans could vary significantly, and the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Income Taxes The Company frequently faces challenges from domestic and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company records reserves for probable exposures. Deferred tax assets represent items to be used as tax deductions or credits in future tax returns, and the related tax benefit has already been recognized in the Companys income statement. Realization of certain deferred tax assets reflects the Companys tax planning strategies. Valuation allowances related to these deferred tax assets have been established to the extent the realization of the tax benefit is not probable. Based on managements evaluation of the Companys tax position, it is believed the amounts related to these tax exposures are appropriately accrued. To the extent the Company were to favorably resolve matters for which accruals have been established or be required to pay amounts in excess of the aforementioned reserves, the Companys effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be impacted. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and affiliated corporate joint ventures accounted for on the equity method are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by unpredictable factors such as weather, plantings, government (domestic and foreign) farm programs and policies, changes in population growth, changes in standards of living, and production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned unpredictable factors, therefore, may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and profitability of the Companys fixed asset base in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its factories. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment and technology related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. Assets are abandoned after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of this fixed asset base, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Valuation of Marketable Securities and Investments in Affiliates The Company classifies the majority of its marketable securities as available for sale and carries these securities at fair value. Investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings. For publicly traded securities, the fair value of the Companys investments is readily available based on quoted market prices. For non publicly traded securities, managements assessment of fair value is based on valuation methodologies including discounted cash flows and estimates of sales proceeds. In the event of a decline in fair value of an investment below carrying value, management may be required to determine if the decline in fair value is other than temporary. In evaluating the nature of a decline in the fair value of an investment, management considers the market conditions, trends of earnings, discounted cash flows, trading volumes, and other key measures of the investment as well as the Companys ability and intent to hold the investment. When such a decline in value is deemed to be other than temporary, an impairment loss is recognized in the current period operating results to the extent of the decline. See Notes 3 and 5 to the Companys consolidated financial statements for information regarding the Companys marketable securities and investments in affiliates. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these marketable securities, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) The Company is a limited partner in various private equity funds which invest primarily in emerging markets. The Company accounts for these limited partnerships using the equity method of accounting. Therefore, the Company is recording in the consolidated statement of earnings its proportional share of the limited partnerships net income or loss. The limited partnerships value their investments at fair value. Thus, unrealized gains and losses related to the change in fair value of these investments are recorded in the limited partnerships statements of earnings. The valuation of these investments, as determined by the general partner, can be subjective, and the values may vary significantly. Some of the factors causing the subjectivity and volatility of these valuations include the illiquidity and minority positions of these investments, currency exchange rate fluctuations, less regulated securities exchanges, and the inherent business risks and limitations present in the emerging market countries. The Company records the results of these limited partnerships based on the information provided to the Company by the general partner. Due to the subjectivity and volatility in valuing these investments, the fair value of these investments, and thus the Companys results, could vary significantly over future periods. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in commodities futures prices, marketable equity security prices, market prices of limited partnerships investments, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and price of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to unpredictable factors such as weather, plantings, government (domestic and foreign) farm programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. To reduce price risk caused by market fluctuations, the Company generally follows a policy of using exchange traded futures and options contracts to minimize its net position of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories and forward cash purchase and sales contracts. The Company will also use exchange traded futures and options contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the volatility of the relationship between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contracts defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company from time to time enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) A sensitivity analysis has been prepared to estimate the Companys exposure to market risk of its daily net commodity position. The Companys daily net commodity position consists of inventories, related purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures contracts, including those contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements. The fair value of such daily net commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing each net position at quoted futures prices. Market risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in such prices. Actual results may differ. 2007 2006 Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest long position $ 703 $ 70 $ 510 $ 51 Highest short position 565 57 574 57 Average position long (short) 180 18 (203 ) (20 ) The change in fair value of the average position for 2007 compared to 2006 was principally a result of changes in the daily net commodity position and commodity prices. Marketable Equity Securities Marketable equity securities, which are recorded at fair value, have exposure to price risk. The fair value of marketable equity securities is based on quoted market prices. Risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted market prices. Actual results may differ. 2007 2006 (In millions) Fair value $ 227 $ 640 Market risk 23 64 The decrease in fair value for 2007 compared to 2006 resulted primarily from disposals of securities partially offset by increases in fair market value of certain securities. Limited Partnerships The Company is a limited partner in various private equity funds which invest primarily in emerging markets. The Company accounts for these limited partnerships using the equity method of accounting. Therefore, the Company is recording in the consolidated statement of earnings its proportional share of the limited partnerships net income or loss. The limited partnerships value their investments at fair value. Risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in market prices of the limited partnerships investments. Actual results may differ. 2007 2006 (In millions) Fair value of partnerships investments $ 188 $ 210 Market risk 19 21 The decrease in fair value for 2007 compared to 2006 resulted primarily from returns of capital. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) Currencies In order to reduce the risk of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, except for amounts permanently invested as described below, the Company follows a policy of entering into currency exchange forward contracts to mitigate its foreign currency risk related to transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currencies applicable to each of its various entities. The instruments used are readily marketable exchange traded futures contracts and forward contracts with banks. The changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $5.4 billion at June 30, 2007, and $4.5 billion at June 30, 2006. This increase is due to an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and appreciation of foreign currency exchange rates. The potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $543 million and $454 million for 2007 and 2006, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical .5 % decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2007 2006 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 4,927 $ 4,387 Excess of fair value over carrying value 110 257 Market risk 204 218 The increase in fair value of long term debt in 2007 resulted principally from the Companys issuance of $1.2 billion convertible senior notes partially offset by repayment of $400 million of debentures and other principal payments of long term debt. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Oilseeds Processing operating profits increased $518 million to $1.1 billion due to the $440 million Wilmar Gain and improved market conditions in all geographic regions. North American processing results improved principally due to abundant oilseed supplies in the United States and good demand for vegetable oil and soybean meal. Vegetable oil values improved as the markets anticipate new demand from the developing United States biodiesel industry. North American processing results were also favorably impacted by lower plant operating costs resulting from improved capacity utilization. Asian joint venture results improved due to improved palm processing operating results partially offset by decreased soy crushing operating results. European processing results improved principally due to abundant oilseed supplies in Europe and strong demand for vegetable oil. The strong demand for vegetable oil is the result of strong biodiesel demand. These increases were partially offset by decreased biodiesel operating profits resulting from higher vegetable oil prices, increased market production capacity, and lower diesel fuel prices. South American processing results declined principally due to last years $27 million credit for Brazilian transactional taxes. Excluding the impact of last years credit for Brazilian transactional taxes, South American processing results improved principally due to increased fertilizer margins. The improvement in fertilizer margins was primarily due to higher average sales prices due to improved fertilizer demand combined with stable raw material costs. Operating profits for 2007 include a $5 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Operating profits for 2006 include a $14 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets and a $6 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47. Corn Processing operating profits increased $242 million to $1.1 billion principally due to higher average selling prices and lower energy costs, partially offset by lower ethanol sales volumes and higher net corn costs. Net corn costs have increased approximately 60% during 2007 due to significant demand increases for corn resulting primarily from the increase in corn derived ethanol industry capacity. Agricultural commodity market concerns regarding the expected decline in the ending 2006 corn crop carryover has also contributed to the increase in corn costs. Sweeteners and Starches operating profits increased $53 million due primarily to higher average sales prices and lower energy costs. Sales prices have increased principally due to good demand for sweetener and starch products. These increases were partially offset by increased net corn costs. Sweeteners and Starches operating profits for 2006 include a $5 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47. Bioproducts operating profits increased $189 million primarily due to higher ethanol average selling prices and lower energy costs, partially offset by increased net corn costs and lower ethanol sales volumes. Ethanol average sales prices increased principally due to strong demand from gasoline refiners and higher gasoline prices. Ethanol sales volumes decreased as 2006 sales volumes exceeded production due to the release of inventories built up in anticipation of refiners replacing MTBE with ethanol. Bioproducts operating results for 2007 include a $1 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Bioproducts operating results for 2006 include a $6 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets, a $2 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47, and $6 million of costs related to the closure of a citric acid plant. Agricultural Services operating profits increased $241 million to $516 million principally due to a $153 million gain from the sale of the Companys interest in Agricore United, a Canadian business which specialized in crop input, crop protection services, and grain marketing and merchandising. Excluding the Agricore United gain, Agricultural Services operating profits increased $88 million to $363 million principally due to improved global grain merchandising operating results and, to a lesser extent, improved transportation and North American origination operating results. Global grain merchandising results improved as regional production imbalances allowed the Company to capitalize on merchandising opportunities. North American river transportation operating results increased primarily due to increased barge freight rates created by strong demand for barge capacity. North American origination operating results improved due to good export demand for agricultural commodities and higher ocean freight rates. Agricultural Services operating profits for 2007 include a $12 million trade disruption insurance recovery related to Hurricane Katrina. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Other operating profits increased $99 million to $409 million. Other Food, Feed, and Industrial operating profits increased $55 million and include a $53 million gain on the sale of the Companys Arkady food ingredient business and a $15 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Other Food, Feed, and Industrial operating results for 2006 include a $51 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets, a $2 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47, a $9 million charge representing the Companys share of a charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets reported by an unconsolidated affiliate of the Company, a $17 million gain from the sale of long lived assets, and a $16 million charge related to exiting the European animal feed business. Excluding the effect of these 2007 and 2006 items, Other Food, Feed, and Industrial operating profits declined $44 million due primarily to cocoa processing operating results declining from prior year levels and costs related to the start up of the Companys natural plastics production operations. Cocoa processing operating results declined primarily due to increased industry production capacity which caused downward pressure on cocoa processing margins. These increases were partially offset by improved operating results of the Companys wheat flour processing and protein specialty operations. Other Financial operating profits increased $44 million principally due to increased valuations of the Companys private equity fund investments and higher operating results of the Companys futures commission merchant business, partially offset by lower operating results of the Companys captive insurance operations. The results of the Companys captive insurance operations for 2007 include a $12 million charge related to a Hurricane Katrina trade disruption insurance settlement. Corporate expense decreased $199 million to $7 million principally due to a $345 million increase in realized securities gains principally resulting from sales of the Companys equity securities of Tyson Foods, Inc. and Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc. and a $103 million reduction in unallocated interest expense due principally to higher levels of invested funds and higher interest rates. These decreases were partially offset by a $206 million charge, compared to a $12 million credit in the prior year, related to the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations and a $46 million charge related to the repurchase of $400 million of the Companys outstanding debentures. Income taxes increased due principally to higher pretax earnings and the absence of last years $36 million income tax credit related to the recognition of federal and state income tax credits and adjustments resulting from the reconciliation of filed tax returns to the previously estimated tax provision. The Companys effective tax rate during 2007 was 31.5% and, after excluding the effect of last years $36 million tax credit, was 31.2% for the prior year. The increase in the Companys effective tax rate is primarily due to changes in the geographic mix of pretax earnings. 2006 Compared to 2005 As an agricultural based commodity business, the Company is subject to a variety of market factors which affect the Companys operating results. Strong biodiesel demand in Europe continued to create increased vegetable oil demand and has positively impacted rapeseed crushing margins in Europe. Abundant oilseed supplies and strong protein meal demand have positively impacted oilseed crushing margins in North America. A good corn supply resulting in lower price levels for corn favorably impacted corn processing operations, while ethanol experienced good demand due to gasoline refiners replacing MTBE with ethanol. Solid demand for sweetener and starch products has also improved corn processing results. During the first half of 2006, hurricanes in the gulf coast region of the United States disrupted North American grain origination and agricultural commodity export operations, negatively impacting export sales volumes. The gulf coast hurricanes also disrupted river transportation, resulting in increased barge demand and barge freight rates. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Net earnings increased principally due to improved operating results of Oilseeds Processing and Corn Processing. In addition, net earnings also increased due to a $36 million reduction in income tax expense related to the recognition of federal and state income tax credits and adjustments resulting from the reconciliation of filed tax returns to the previously estimated tax provision. Earnings before income taxes for 2006 include charges of $31 million resulting from the Companys adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) Number 123(R), Share Based Payment, $15 million resulting from the Companys adoption of FIN 47, $71 million related to abandonment and write down of long lived assets, $9 million representing the Companys share of a charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets reported by an unconsolidated affiliate of the Company, and $22 million associated with the closure of a citric acid plant and exiting the European animal feed business. Earnings before income taxes for 2006 also include credits of $12 million from the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations, $17 million from the sale of long lived assets, $46 million related to Brazilian transactional tax credits, and $40 million related to realized securities gains. Earnings before income taxes for 2005 included credits of $114 million from the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations, $114 million of realized securities gain from the sale of Tate & Lyle PLC shares, and $45 million representing the Companys equity share of the gain reported by the Companys unconsolidated affiliate, Compagnie Industrielle et Financiere des Produits Amylaces SA (CIP), upon the sale of its interest in Tate & Lyle PLC (the CIP Gain). Earnings before income taxes for 2005 also include a $42 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Analysis of Statements of Earnings Net sales and other operating income increased 2% to $36.6 billion due primarily to higher average selling prices of agricultural commodities and increased sales volumes and selling prices of corn processing products, partially offset by decreased average selling prices of cocoa products and currency exchange rate decreases of $415 million. Net sales and other operating income by segment are as follows: 2006 2005 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing $ 11,867 $ 11,803 $ 64 Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 2,133 1,905 228 Bioproducts 2,727 2,459 268 Total Corn Processing 4,860 4,364 496 Agricultural Services 15,440 15,198 242 Other Food, Feed, and Industrial 4,354 4,506 (152 ) Financial 75 72 3 Total Other 4,429 4,578 (149 ) Total $ 36,596 $ 35,943 653 Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Oilseeds Processing sales increased $64 million to $11.9 billion principally due to higher average selling prices of South American oilseed exports and of vegetable oil. These increases were partially offset by lower average selling prices of protein meal. Corn Processing sales increased 11% to $4.9 billion due to sales increases in both Sweeteners and Starches and Bioproducts. Sweeteners and Starches sales increased due to higher average selling prices and sales volumes. Sales volumes and prices have increased primarily due to solid demand for sweetener and starch products. Bioproducts sales increased primarily due to increased sales volumes and average selling prices of ethanol, partially offset by lower average selling prices of lysine. The increases in ethanol sales volumes and sales prices were principally due to increased demand from gasoline refiners as refiners used ethanol to replace MTBE as a gasoline additive and to increased gasoline prices. Agricultural Services sales increased 2% to $15.4 billion primarily due to increased commodity prices in North America and, to a lesser extent, increased barge freight rates as the gulf coast hurricanes reduced barge capacities and created strong demand for North American river transportation. These increases were partially offset by decreased commodity sales volumes in North America. The decreased sales volumes were primarily due to disruptions in North American grain origination and export activities caused by the hurricanes in the gulf coast region. Other sales decreased 3% to $4.4 billion primarily due to decreased average selling prices of cocoa products and lower sales volumes of formula feed products. These decreases were partially offset by increased average selling prices of wheat flour products due to higher commodity prices. Cost of products sold increased $118 million to $33.6 billion due primarily to higher average prices of agricultural commodities and increased manufacturing costs, partially offset by currency exchange rate decreases of $389 million. Manufacturing costs increased $399 million primarily due to increased energy costs, an $86 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets, and increased employee related costs. Selling, general, and administrative expenses increased $112 million to $1.2 billion principally due to increased employee related costs, including a $31 million charge related to the adoption of SFAS 123(R), $20 million of severance costs associated with the closure of a citric acid plant, and increased provisions for doubtful accounts. Other income decreased $84 million due primarily to a $73 million decrease in realized securities gains, a $55 million decrease in equity in earnings of affiliates, and a $39 million increase in interest expense, partially offset by a $69 million increase in investment income. The decrease in realized securities gains is primarily due to the $114 million realized securities gain in 2005 from the sale of Tate & Lyle PLC shares, partially offset by $40 million of realized securities gains during 2006. The decrease in equity in earnings of affiliates is primarily due to the CIP Gain in 2005 and lower valuations of the Companys private equity fund investments in 2006, partially offset by improved earnings of the Companys Asian oilseed crushing ventures. Interest expense increased primarily due to higher average borrowing levels and interest rates. Investment income increased primarily due to the reversal of $19 million of Brazilian transactional taxes previously assessed on investment income upon positive resolution in the Brazilian Supreme Court, higher levels of invested funds, and higher interest rates. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Operating profit by segment is as follows: 2006 2005 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing $ 599 $ 345 $ 254 Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 431 271 160 Bioproducts 446 259 187 Total Corn Processing 877 530 347 Agricultural Services 275 262 13 Other Food, Feed, and Industrial 159 263 (104 ) Financial 151 151 Total Other 310 414 (104 ) Total Segment Operating Profit 2,061 1,551 510 Corporate (206 ) (35 ) (171 ) Earnings Before Income Taxes $ 1,855 $ 1,516 $ 339 Oilseeds Processing operating profits increased $254 million to $599 million primarily due to improved market conditions in all geographic regions. European processing results improved principally due to strong demand for biodiesel and abundant rapeseed supplies in Europe. This strong demand for biodiesel in Europe increased European vegetable oil demand and resulted in improved oilseeds processing results. Abundant rapeseed supplies in Europe resulted in lower rapeseed price levels. North American processing results improved principally due to abundant oilseed supplies in the United States and good demand for soybean meal. Vegetable oil values were solid as the markets anticipate new demand from the developing United States biodiesel industry. South American operating results increased primarily due to improved origination activities and a $27 million credit for Brazilian transactional taxes. Operating results in Asia increased due to improved soy crushing margins and improved palm operations. Operating profits include a $14 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets and a $6 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47. Operating profits for 2005 include a charge of $13 million for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Corn Processing operating profits increased $347 million to $877 million primarily due to higher average selling prices, increased sales volumes, and lower net corn costs, partially offset by increased energy costs. Sweeteners and Starches operating profits increased $160 million due primarily to decreased net corn costs and higher average sales prices and sales volumes. Sales volumes and prices have increased primarily due to good demand for sweetener and starch products. These increases were partially offset by increased energy costs. Sweeteners and Starches operating profits include a $5 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47. Bioproducts operating profits increased $187 million primarily due to higher ethanol sales volumes and average selling prices and decreased net corn costs, partially offset by increased energy costs and lower lysine average selling prices. The increases in ethanol sales volumes and average sales prices were principally due to increased demand from gasoline refiners as refiners used ethanol to replace MTBE as a gasoline additive and from increased gasoline prices. Bioproducts operating profits include a $6 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets, a $2 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47, and $6 million of costs related to the closure of a citric acid plant. Bioproducts operating profits for 2005 include a $16 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Agricultural Services operating profits increased $13 million to $275 million as improved results from transportation operations were partially offset by a decline in global grain merchandising and North American origination operating results. North American river transportation operating results increased primarily due to increased barge freight rates created by strong demand for barge capacity. This increase was partially offset by increased fuel costs. The gulf coast hurricanes negatively impacted North American origination and export activities during the first half of 2006. Other operating profits decreased $104 million to $310 million. Other Food, Feed, and Industrial operating results decreased $104 million due primarily to a $51 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets, a $2 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47, and a $9 million charge representing the Companys share of a charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets reported by an unconsolidated affiliate of the Company. In addition, cocoa processing, natural health and nutrition, and formula feed operating results declined from prior year levels. Cocoa processing operating results declined primarily due to increased industry capacity which caused downward pressure on cocoa finished product prices. Formula feed operating results declined due to costs associated with exiting the European animal feed business. Other Food, Feed, and Industrial operating profits include a $17 million gain from the sale of long lived assets. Other Food, Feed, and Industrial operating results for 2005 include a $13 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Other Financial operating profits are comparable to prior year levels as improvements in the Companys captive insurance operations and futures commission merchant business offset lower valuations of the Companys private equity fund investments. Corporate decreased $171 million due primarily to a $102 million decrease in income from the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations, the $114 million realized securities gain in 2005 from the sale of Tate & Lyle PLC shares, the CIP Gain in 2005, and a $22 million charge in 2006 upon the adoption of SFAS 123(R), partially offset by the aforementioned $19 million reversal of Brazilian transactional taxes and a $97 million reduction in unallocated interest expense. The reduction in unallocated interest expense is due principally to higher levels of invested funds and higher interest rates. Income taxes increased due principally to higher pretax earnings. This increase was partially offset by a $36 million reduction in income tax expense related to the recognition of federal and state income tax credits and adjustments resulting from the reconciliation of filed tax returns to the previously estimated tax provision. The Companys effective tax rate for 2006 was 29.3% as compared to 31.1% for 2005. Excluding the effect of the $36 million tax credit, the Companys effective tax rate was 31.2% for 2006 and, after excluding the effect of the CIP Gain, was 32.1% for 2005. No tax was provided on the CIP Gain in 2005, as CIP is a corporate joint venture of the Company and the proceeds from the sale are permanently reinvested. Excluding the effect of the $36 million tax credit in 2006 and the CIP Gain in 2005, the decrease in the Companys effective tax rate is primarily due to changes in the geographic mix of pretax earnings. Liquidity and Capital Resources The Companys objective is to have sufficient liquidity, balance sheet strength, and financial flexibility to fund the operating and capital requirements of a capital intensive agricultural based commodity business. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) At June 30, 2007, the Company continued to show substantial liquidity with working capital of $7.3 billion and a current ratio, defined as current assets divided by current liabilities, of 1.9 to 1. Included in working capital is $875 million of cash, cash equivalents, and short term marketable securities as well as $4.4 billion of readily marketable commodity inventories. Cash generated from operating activities totaled $303 million for the year compared to $1.4 billion last year. This decrease was primarily due to an increase in working capital requirements principally related to increased prices and quantities of agricultural commodity inventories and increased receivables, partially offset by increased cash earnings. Despite increased investment in property, plant, and equipment, cash used in investing activities decreased $714 million for the year to $355 million due primarily to increased sales of marketable securities and proceeds from sales of businesses including the sale of the Companys equity interests in Tyson Foods, Inc., Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc. and Agricore United. Cash used in financing activities was $398 million compared to cash generated by financing activities of $284 million last year. Net long term borrowings increased primarily as a result of the issuance of $1.2 billion of convertible senior notes in February 2007 (described in detail below), compared to $600 million of 30 year debentures issued in September 2005. This increase was partially offset by $283 million of increased payments on long term debt principally related to the Company retiring $400 million of debentures in 2007. Capital resources were strengthened as shown by the increase in the Companys net worth from $9.8 billion to $11.3 billion. The Companys ratio of long term debt to total capital (the sum of the Companys long term debt and shareholders equity) was 30% at June 30, 2007, and 29% at June 30, 2006. This ratio is a measure of the Companys long term liquidity and is an indicator of financial flexibility. The Company currently has $3.9 billion of commercial paper and commercial bank lines available to meet seasonal cash requirements of which $2.6 billion are committed and $1.3 billion are uncommitted. At June 30, 2007, the Company had $468 million of short term debt outstanding. Standard & Poors, Moodys, and Fitch rate the Companys commercial paper as A 1, P 1, and F1, respectively, and rate the Companys long term debt as A, A2, and A+, respectively. In addition to the cash flow generated from operations, the Company has access to equity and debt capital through numerous alternatives from public and private sources in domestic and international markets. In February 2007, the Company issued $1.2 billion principal amount of convertible senior notes due in 2014 (the Notes) in a private placement. The Notes were issued at par and bear interest at a rate of 0.875% per year, payable semiannually. The Notes are convertible based on an initial conversion rate of 22.8343 shares per $1,000 principal amount of Notes (which is equal to an initial conversion price of approximately $43.79 per share). The Notes may be converted, subject to adjustment, only under the following circumstances: 1) during any calendar quarter beginning after March 31, 2007, if the closing price of the Companys common stock for at least 20 trading days in the 30 consecutive trading days ending on the last trading day of the immediately preceding quarter is more than 140% of the applicable conversion price per share, which is $1,000 divided by the then applicable conversion rate, 2) during the five consecutive business day period immediately after any five consecutive trading day period (the note measurement period) in which the average of the trading price per $1,000 principal amount of Notes was equal to or less than 98% of the average of the product of the closing price of the Companys common stock and the conversion rate at each date during the note measurement period, 3) if the Company makes specified distributions to its common stockholders or specified corporate transactions occur, or 4) at any time on or after January 15, 2014, through the business day preceding the maturity date. Upon conversion, a holder would receive an amount in cash equal to the lesser of 1) $1,000 and 2) the conversion value, as defined. If the conversion value exceeds $1,000, the Company will deliver, at the Companys election, cash or common stock or a combination of cash and common stock for the conversion value in excess of $1,000. If the Notes are converted in connection with a change in control, as defined, the Company may be required to provide a make whole premium in the form of an increase in the conversion rate, subject to a stated maximum amount. In addition, in the event of a change in control, the holders may require the Company to purchase all or a portion of their Notes at a purchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Concurrent with the issuance of the Notes, the Company purchased call options in private transactions at a cost of $299 million. The purchased call options allow the Company to receive shares of its common stock and or cash from the counterparties equal to the amounts of common stock and or cash related to the excess of the current market price of the Companys common stock over the exercise price of the purchased call options. In addition, the Company sold warrants in private transactions to acquire, subject to customary anti dilution adjustments, 26.3 million shares of its common stock at an exercise price of $62.56 per share and received proceeds of $170 million. If the average price of the Companys common stock during a defined period ending on or about the respective settlement dates exceeds the exercise price of the warrants, the warrants will be settled, at the Companys option, in cash or shares of common stock. The purchased call options and warrants are intended to reduce the potential dilution upon future conversions of the Notes by effectively increasing the initial conversion price to $62.56 per share. Upon closing of the sale of the Notes, $370 million of the net proceeds from the Note issuance and the proceeds from the warrant transactions were used to repurchase 10.3 million shares of the Companys common stock under the Companys stock repurchase program. As of June 30, 2007, none of the conditions permitting conversion of the Notes had been satisfied. In addition, as of June 30, 2007, the market price of the Companys common stock was not greater than the exercise price of the purchased call options or warrants. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements In the normal course of business, the Company enters into contracts and commitments which obligate the Company to make payments in the future. The following table sets forth the Companys significant future obligations by time period. Purchases include commodity based contracts entered into in the normal course of business, which are further described in Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, energy related purchase contracts entered into in the normal course of business, and other purchase obligations related to the Companys normal business activities. Where applicable, information included in the Companys consolidated financial statements and notes is cross referenced in this table. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Payments Due by Period Contractual Note Less than 2 3 4 5 Over Obligations Reference Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years (In millions) Purchases Inventories $ 11,113 $ 10,312 $ 535 $ 159 $ 107 Energy 429 269 152 7 1 Other 217 67 94 43 13 Total purchases 11,759 10,648 781 209 121 Short term debt Note 7 468 468 Long term debt Note 7 4,897 65 92 425 4,315 Estimated interest payments 5,752 290 509 474 4,479 Operating leases Note 12 900 318 241 132 209 Estimated pension and other postretirement plan contributions Note 13 1,045 79 173 195 598 Total $ 24,821 $ 11,868 $ 1,796 $ 1,435 $ 9,722 At June 30, 2007, the Company estimates it will spend approximately $3.0 billion over the next four years to complete approved capital projects and acquisitions. The Company is a limited partner in various private equity funds which invest primarily in emerging markets. At June 30, 2007, the Companys carrying value of these limited partnership investments was $165 million. The Company has future capital commitments related to these partnerships of $138 million and expects the majority of these additional capital commitments, if called for, to be funded by cash flows generated by the partnerships. The Company also has outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds of $339 million at June 30, 2007. In addition, the Company has entered into agreements, primarily debt guarantee agreements related to equity method investees, which could obligate the Company to make future payments. The Companys liability under these agreements arises only if the primary entity fails to perform its contractual obligation. The Company has collateral for a portion of these contingent obligations. At June 30, 2007, these contingent obligations totaled approximately $98 million. Amounts outstanding for the primary entity under these contingent obligations were $51 million at June 30, 2007. Critical Accounting Policies The process of preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the carrying values of the Companys assets and liabilities as well as the recognition of revenues and expenses. These estimates and judgments are based on the Companys historical experience and managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Certain of the Companys accounting policies are considered critical, as these policies are important to the depiction of the Companys financial statements and require significant or complex judgment by management. Management has discussed with the Companys Audit Committee the development, selection, disclosure, and application of these critical accounting policies. Following are the accounting policies management considers critical to the Companys financial statements. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Inventories and Derivatives Certain of the Companys merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, forward fixed price purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and options contracts are valued at estimated market values. These merchandisable agricultural commodities are freely traded, have quoted market prices, and may be sold without significant additional processing. Management estimates market value based on exchange quoted prices, adjusted for differences in local markets. Changes in the market values of these inventories and contracts are recognized in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. If management used different methods or factors to estimate market value, amounts reported as inventories and cost of products sold could differ. Additionally, if market conditions change subsequent to year end, amounts reported in future periods as inventories and cost of products sold could differ. The Company, from time to time, uses derivative contracts to fix the purchase price of anticipated volumes of commodities to be purchased and processed in a future month, to fix the purchase price of the Companys anticipated natural gas requirements for certain production facilities, and to fix the sales price of anticipated volumes of ethanol. These derivative contracts are designated as cash flow hedges. The change in the market value of such derivative contracts has historically been, and is expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. If it is determined that the derivative instruments used are no longer effective at offsetting changes in the price of the hedged item, then the changes in the market value of these exchange traded futures contracts would be recorded in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. Employee Benefit Plans The Company provides substantially all domestic employees and employees at certain international subsidiaries with pension benefits. The Company also provides substantially all domestic salaried employees with postretirement health care and life insurance benefits. In order to measure the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans, management makes several estimates and assumptions, including interest rates used to discount certain liabilities, rates of return on assets set aside to fund these plans, rates of compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and anticipated future health care costs. These estimates and assumptions are based on the Companys historical experience combined with managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Management also uses third party specialists to assist in measuring the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans. If management used different estimates and assumptions regarding these plans, the funded status of the plans could vary significantly, and the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Income Taxes The Company frequently faces challenges from domestic and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company records reserves for probable exposures. Deferred tax assets represent items to be used as tax deductions or credits in future tax returns, and the related tax benefit has already been recognized in the Companys income statement. Realization of certain deferred tax assets reflects the Companys tax planning strategies. Valuation allowances related to these deferred tax assets have been established to the extent the realization of the tax benefit is not probable. Based on managements evaluation of the Companys tax position, it is believed the amounts related to these tax exposures are appropriately accrued. To the extent the Company were to favorably resolve matters for which accruals have been established or be required to pay amounts in excess of the aforementioned reserves, the Companys effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be impacted. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and affiliated corporate joint ventures accounted for on the equity method are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by unpredictable factors such as weather, plantings, government (domestic and foreign) farm programs and policies, changes in population growth, changes in standards of living, and production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned unpredictable factors, therefore, may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and profitability of the Companys fixed asset base in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its factories. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment and technology related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. Assets are abandoned after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of this fixed asset base, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Valuation of Marketable Securities and Investments in Affiliates The Company classifies the majority of its marketable securities as available for sale and carries these securities at fair value. Investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings. For publicly traded securities, the fair value of the Companys investments is readily available based on quoted market prices. For non publicly traded securities, managements assessment of fair value is based on valuation methodologies including discounted cash flows and estimates of sales proceeds. In the event of a decline in fair value of an investment below carrying value, management may be required to determine if the decline in fair value is other than temporary. In evaluating the nature of a decline in the fair value of an investment, management considers the market conditions, trends of earnings, discounted cash flows, trading volumes, and other key measures of the investment as well as the Companys ability and intent to hold the investment. When such a decline in value is deemed to be other than temporary, an impairment loss is recognized in the current period operating results to the extent of the decline. See Notes 3 and 5 to the Companys consolidated financial statements for information regarding the Companys marketable securities and investments in affiliates. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these marketable securities, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) The Company is a limited partner in various private equity funds which invest primarily in emerging markets. The Company accounts for these limited partnerships using the equity method of accounting. Therefore, the Company is recording in the consolidated statement of earnings its proportional share of the limited partnerships net income or loss. The limited partnerships value their investments at fair value. Thus, unrealized gains and losses related to the change in fair value of these investments are recorded in the limited partnerships statements of earnings. The valuation of these investments, as determined by the general partner, can be subjective, and the values may vary significantly. Some of the factors causing the subjectivity and volatility of these valuations include the illiquidity and minority positions of these investments, currency exchange rate fluctuations, less regulated securities exchanges, and the inherent business risks and limitations present in the emerging market countries. The Company records the results of these limited partnerships based on the information provided to the Company by the general partner. Due to the subjectivity and volatility in valuing these investments, the fair value of these investments, and thus the Companys results, could vary significantly over future periods. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in commodities futures prices, marketable equity security prices, market prices of limited partnerships investments, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and price of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to unpredictable factors such as weather, plantings, government (domestic and foreign) farm programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. To reduce price risk caused by market fluctuations, the Company generally follows a policy of using exchange traded futures and options contracts to minimize its net position of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories and forward cash purchase and sales contracts. The Company will also use exchange traded futures and options contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the volatility of the relationship between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contracts defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company from time to time enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) A sensitivity analysis has been prepared to estimate the Companys exposure to market risk of its daily net commodity position. The Companys daily net commodity position consists of inventories, related purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures contracts, including those contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements. The fair value of such daily net commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing each net position at quoted futures prices. Market risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in such prices. Actual results may differ. 2007 2006 Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest long position $ 703 $ 70 $ 510 $ 51 Highest short position 565 57 574 57 Average position long (short) 180 18 (203 ) (20 ) The change in fair value of the average position for 2007 compared to 2006 was principally a result of changes in the daily net commodity position and commodity prices. Marketable Equity Securities Marketable equity securities, which are recorded at fair value, have exposure to price risk. The fair value of marketable equity securities is based on quoted market prices. Risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted market prices. Actual results may differ. 2007 2006 (In millions) Fair value $ 227 $ 640 Market risk 23 64 The decrease in fair value for 2007 compared to 2006 resulted primarily from disposals of securities partially offset by increases in fair market value of certain securities. Limited Partnerships The Company is a limited partner in various private equity funds which invest primarily in emerging markets. The Company accounts for these limited partnerships using the equity method of accounting. Therefore, the Company is recording in the consolidated statement of earnings its proportional share of the limited partnerships net income or loss. The limited partnerships value their investments at fair value. Risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in market prices of the limited partnerships investments. Actual results may differ. 2007 2006 (In millions) Fair value of partnerships investments $ 188 $ 210 Market risk 19 21 The decrease in fair value for 2007 compared to 2006 resulted primarily from returns of capital. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) Currencies In order to reduce the risk of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, except for amounts permanently invested as described below, the Company follows a policy of entering into currency exchange forward contracts to mitigate its foreign currency risk related to transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currencies applicable to each of its various entities. The instruments used are readily marketable exchange traded futures contracts and forward contracts with banks. The changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $5.4 billion at June 30, 2007, and $4.5 billion at June 30, 2006. This increase is due to an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and appreciation of foreign currency exchange rates. The potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $543 million and $454 million for 2007 and 2006, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical .5 % decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2007 2006 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 4,927 $ 4,387 Excess of fair value over carrying value 110 257 Market risk 204 218 The increase in fair value of long term debt in 2007 resulted principally from the Companys issuance of $1.2 billion convertible senior notes partially offset by repayment of $400 million of debentures and other principal payments of long term debt. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Other operating profits increased $99 million to $409 million. Other Food, Feed, and Industrial operating profits increased $55 million and include a $53 million gain on the sale of the Companys Arkady food ingredient business and a $15 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Other Food, Feed, and Industrial operating results for 2006 include a $51 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets, a $2 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47, a $9 million charge representing the Companys share of a charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets reported by an unconsolidated affiliate of the Company, a $17 million gain from the sale of long lived assets, and a $16 million charge related to exiting the European animal feed business. Excluding the effect of these 2007 and 2006 items, Other Food, Feed, and Industrial operating profits declined $44 million due primarily to cocoa processing operating results declining from prior year levels and costs related to the start up of the Companys natural plastics production operations. Cocoa processing operating results declined primarily due to increased industry production capacity which caused downward pressure on cocoa processing margins. These increases were partially offset by improved operating results of the Companys wheat flour processing and protein specialty operations. Other Financial operating profits increased $44 million principally due to increased valuations of the Companys private equity fund investments and higher operating results of the Companys futures commission merchant business, partially offset by lower operating results of the Companys captive insurance operations. The results of the Companys captive insurance operations for 2007 include a $12 million charge related to a Hurricane Katrina trade disruption insurance settlement. Corporate expense decreased $199 million to $7 million principally due to a $345 million increase in realized securities gains principally resulting from sales of the Companys equity securities of Tyson Foods, Inc. and Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc. and a $103 million reduction in unallocated interest expense due principally to higher levels of invested funds and higher interest rates. These decreases were partially offset by a $206 million charge, compared to a $12 million credit in the prior year, related to the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations and a $46 million charge related to the repurchase of $400 million of the Companys outstanding debentures. Income taxes increased due principally to higher pretax earnings and the absence of last years $36 million income tax credit related to the recognition of federal and state income tax credits and adjustments resulting from the reconciliation of filed tax returns to the previously estimated tax provision. The Companys effective tax rate during 2007 was 31.5% and, after excluding the effect of last years $36 million tax credit, was 31.2% for the prior year. The increase in the Companys effective tax rate is primarily due to changes in the geographic mix of pretax earnings. 2006 Compared to 2005 As an agricultural based commodity business, the Company is subject to a variety of market factors which affect the Companys operating results. Strong biodiesel demand in Europe continued to create increased vegetable oil demand and has positively impacted rapeseed crushing margins in Europe. Abundant oilseed supplies and strong protein meal demand have positively impacted oilseed crushing margins in North America. A good corn supply resulting in lower price levels for corn favorably impacted corn processing operations, while ethanol experienced good demand due to gasoline refiners replacing MTBE with ethanol. Solid demand for sweetener and starch products has also improved corn processing results. During the first half of 2006, hurricanes in the gulf coast region of the United States disrupted North American grain origination and agricultural commodity export operations, negatively impacting export sales volumes. The gulf coast hurricanes also disrupted river transportation, resulting in increased barge demand and barge freight rates. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Net earnings increased principally due to improved operating results of Oilseeds Processing and Corn Processing. In addition, net earnings also increased due to a $36 million reduction in income tax expense related to the recognition of federal and state income tax credits and adjustments resulting from the reconciliation of filed tax returns to the previously estimated tax provision. Earnings before income taxes for 2006 include charges of $31 million resulting from the Companys adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) Number 123(R), Share Based Payment, $15 million resulting from the Companys adoption of FIN 47, $71 million related to abandonment and write down of long lived assets, $9 million representing the Companys share of a charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets reported by an unconsolidated affiliate of the Company, and $22 million associated with the closure of a citric acid plant and exiting the European animal feed business. Earnings before income taxes for 2006 also include credits of $12 million from the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations, $17 million from the sale of long lived assets, $46 million related to Brazilian transactional tax credits, and $40 million related to realized securities gains. Earnings before income taxes for 2005 included credits of $114 million from the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations, $114 million of realized securities gain from the sale of Tate & Lyle PLC shares, and $45 million representing the Companys equity share of the gain reported by the Companys unconsolidated affiliate, Compagnie Industrielle et Financiere des Produits Amylaces SA (CIP), upon the sale of its interest in Tate & Lyle PLC (the CIP Gain). Earnings before income taxes for 2005 also include a $42 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Analysis of Statements of Earnings Net sales and other operating income increased 2% to $36.6 billion due primarily to higher average selling prices of agricultural commodities and increased sales volumes and selling prices of corn processing products, partially offset by decreased average selling prices of cocoa products and currency exchange rate decreases of $415 million. Net sales and other operating income by segment are as follows: 2006 2005 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing $ 11,867 $ 11,803 $ 64 Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 2,133 1,905 228 Bioproducts 2,727 2,459 268 Total Corn Processing 4,860 4,364 496 Agricultural Services 15,440 15,198 242 Other Food, Feed, and Industrial 4,354 4,506 (152 ) Financial 75 72 3 Total Other 4,429 4,578 (149 ) Total $ 36,596 $ 35,943 653 Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Oilseeds Processing sales increased $64 million to $11.9 billion principally due to higher average selling prices of South American oilseed exports and of vegetable oil. These increases were partially offset by lower average selling prices of protein meal. Corn Processing sales increased 11% to $4.9 billion due to sales increases in both Sweeteners and Starches and Bioproducts. Sweeteners and Starches sales increased due to higher average selling prices and sales volumes. Sales volumes and prices have increased primarily due to solid demand for sweetener and starch products. Bioproducts sales increased primarily due to increased sales volumes and average selling prices of ethanol, partially offset by lower average selling prices of lysine. The increases in ethanol sales volumes and sales prices were principally due to increased demand from gasoline refiners as refiners used ethanol to replace MTBE as a gasoline additive and to increased gasoline prices. Agricultural Services sales increased 2% to $15.4 billion primarily due to increased commodity prices in North America and, to a lesser extent, increased barge freight rates as the gulf coast hurricanes reduced barge capacities and created strong demand for North American river transportation. These increases were partially offset by decreased commodity sales volumes in North America. The decreased sales volumes were primarily due to disruptions in North American grain origination and export activities caused by the hurricanes in the gulf coast region. Other sales decreased 3% to $4.4 billion primarily due to decreased average selling prices of cocoa products and lower sales volumes of formula feed products. These decreases were partially offset by increased average selling prices of wheat flour products due to higher commodity prices. Cost of products sold increased $118 million to $33.6 billion due primarily to higher average prices of agricultural commodities and increased manufacturing costs, partially offset by currency exchange rate decreases of $389 million. Manufacturing costs increased $399 million primarily due to increased energy costs, an $86 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets, and increased employee related costs. Selling, general, and administrative expenses increased $112 million to $1.2 billion principally due to increased employee related costs, including a $31 million charge related to the adoption of SFAS 123(R), $20 million of severance costs associated with the closure of a citric acid plant, and increased provisions for doubtful accounts. Other income decreased $84 million due primarily to a $73 million decrease in realized securities gains, a $55 million decrease in equity in earnings of affiliates, and a $39 million increase in interest expense, partially offset by a $69 million increase in investment income. The decrease in realized securities gains is primarily due to the $114 million realized securities gain in 2005 from the sale of Tate & Lyle PLC shares, partially offset by $40 million of realized securities gains during 2006. The decrease in equity in earnings of affiliates is primarily due to the CIP Gain in 2005 and lower valuations of the Companys private equity fund investments in 2006, partially offset by improved earnings of the Companys Asian oilseed crushing ventures. Interest expense increased primarily due to higher average borrowing levels and interest rates. Investment income increased primarily due to the reversal of $19 million of Brazilian transactional taxes previously assessed on investment income upon positive resolution in the Brazilian Supreme Court, higher levels of invested funds, and higher interest rates. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Operating profit by segment is as follows: 2006 2005 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing $ 599 $ 345 $ 254 Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 431 271 160 Bioproducts 446 259 187 Total Corn Processing 877 530 347 Agricultural Services 275 262 13 Other Food, Feed, and Industrial 159 263 (104 ) Financial 151 151 Total Other 310 414 (104 ) Total Segment Operating Profit 2,061 1,551 510 Corporate (206 ) (35 ) (171 ) Earnings Before Income Taxes $ 1,855 $ 1,516 $ 339 Oilseeds Processing operating profits increased $254 million to $599 million primarily due to improved market conditions in all geographic regions. European processing results improved principally due to strong demand for biodiesel and abundant rapeseed supplies in Europe. This strong demand for biodiesel in Europe increased European vegetable oil demand and resulted in improved oilseeds processing results. Abundant rapeseed supplies in Europe resulted in lower rapeseed price levels. North American processing results improved principally due to abundant oilseed supplies in the United States and good demand for soybean meal. Vegetable oil values were solid as the markets anticipate new demand from the developing United States biodiesel industry. South American operating results increased primarily due to improved origination activities and a $27 million credit for Brazilian transactional taxes. Operating results in Asia increased due to improved soy crushing margins and improved palm operations. Operating profits include a $14 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets and a $6 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47. Operating profits for 2005 include a charge of $13 million for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Corn Processing operating profits increased $347 million to $877 million primarily due to higher average selling prices, increased sales volumes, and lower net corn costs, partially offset by increased energy costs. Sweeteners and Starches operating profits increased $160 million due primarily to decreased net corn costs and higher average sales prices and sales volumes. Sales volumes and prices have increased primarily due to good demand for sweetener and starch products. These increases were partially offset by increased energy costs. Sweeteners and Starches operating profits include a $5 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47. Bioproducts operating profits increased $187 million primarily due to higher ethanol sales volumes and average selling prices and decreased net corn costs, partially offset by increased energy costs and lower lysine average selling prices. The increases in ethanol sales volumes and average sales prices were principally due to increased demand from gasoline refiners as refiners used ethanol to replace MTBE as a gasoline additive and from increased gasoline prices. Bioproducts operating profits include a $6 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets, a $2 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47, and $6 million of costs related to the closure of a citric acid plant. Bioproducts operating profits for 2005 include a $16 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Agricultural Services operating profits increased $13 million to $275 million as improved results from transportation operations were partially offset by a decline in global grain merchandising and North American origination operating results. North American river transportation operating results increased primarily due to increased barge freight rates created by strong demand for barge capacity. This increase was partially offset by increased fuel costs. The gulf coast hurricanes negatively impacted North American origination and export activities during the first half of 2006. Other operating profits decreased $104 million to $310 million. Other Food, Feed, and Industrial operating results decreased $104 million due primarily to a $51 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets, a $2 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47, and a $9 million charge representing the Companys share of a charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets reported by an unconsolidated affiliate of the Company. In addition, cocoa processing, natural health and nutrition, and formula feed operating results declined from prior year levels. Cocoa processing operating results declined primarily due to increased industry capacity which caused downward pressure on cocoa finished product prices. Formula feed operating results declined due to costs associated with exiting the European animal feed business. Other Food, Feed, and Industrial operating profits include a $17 million gain from the sale of long lived assets. Other Food, Feed, and Industrial operating results for 2005 include a $13 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Other Financial operating profits are comparable to prior year levels as improvements in the Companys captive insurance operations and futures commission merchant business offset lower valuations of the Companys private equity fund investments. Corporate decreased $171 million due primarily to a $102 million decrease in income from the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations, the $114 million realized securities gain in 2005 from the sale of Tate & Lyle PLC shares, the CIP Gain in 2005, and a $22 million charge in 2006 upon the adoption of SFAS 123(R), partially offset by the aforementioned $19 million reversal of Brazilian transactional taxes and a $97 million reduction in unallocated interest expense. The reduction in unallocated interest expense is due principally to higher levels of invested funds and higher interest rates. Income taxes increased due principally to higher pretax earnings. This increase was partially offset by a $36 million reduction in income tax expense related to the recognition of federal and state income tax credits and adjustments resulting from the reconciliation of filed tax returns to the previously estimated tax provision. The Companys effective tax rate for 2006 was 29.3% as compared to 31.1% for 2005. Excluding the effect of the $36 million tax credit, the Companys effective tax rate was 31.2% for 2006 and, after excluding the effect of the CIP Gain, was 32.1% for 2005. No tax was provided on the CIP Gain in 2005, as CIP is a corporate joint venture of the Company and the proceeds from the sale are permanently reinvested. Excluding the effect of the $36 million tax credit in 2006 and the CIP Gain in 2005, the decrease in the Companys effective tax rate is primarily due to changes in the geographic mix of pretax earnings. Liquidity and Capital Resources The Companys objective is to have sufficient liquidity, balance sheet strength, and financial flexibility to fund the operating and capital requirements of a capital intensive agricultural based commodity business. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) At June 30, 2007, the Company continued to show substantial liquidity with working capital of $7.3 billion and a current ratio, defined as current assets divided by current liabilities, of 1.9 to 1. Included in working capital is $875 million of cash, cash equivalents, and short term marketable securities as well as $4.4 billion of readily marketable commodity inventories. Cash generated from operating activities totaled $303 million for the year compared to $1.4 billion last year. This decrease was primarily due to an increase in working capital requirements principally related to increased prices and quantities of agricultural commodity inventories and increased receivables, partially offset by increased cash earnings. Despite increased investment in property, plant, and equipment, cash used in investing activities decreased $714 million for the year to $355 million due primarily to increased sales of marketable securities and proceeds from sales of businesses including the sale of the Companys equity interests in Tyson Foods, Inc., Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc. and Agricore United. Cash used in financing activities was $398 million compared to cash generated by financing activities of $284 million last year. Net long term borrowings increased primarily as a result of the issuance of $1.2 billion of convertible senior notes in February 2007 (described in detail below), compared to $600 million of 30 year debentures issued in September 2005. This increase was partially offset by $283 million of increased payments on long term debt principally related to the Company retiring $400 million of debentures in 2007. Capital resources were strengthened as shown by the increase in the Companys net worth from $9.8 billion to $11.3 billion. The Companys ratio of long term debt to total capital (the sum of the Companys long term debt and shareholders equity) was 30% at June 30, 2007, and 29% at June 30, 2006. This ratio is a measure of the Companys long term liquidity and is an indicator of financial flexibility. The Company currently has $3.9 billion of commercial paper and commercial bank lines available to meet seasonal cash requirements of which $2.6 billion are committed and $1.3 billion are uncommitted. At June 30, 2007, the Company had $468 million of short term debt outstanding. Standard & Poors, Moodys, and Fitch rate the Companys commercial paper as A 1, P 1, and F1, respectively, and rate the Companys long term debt as A, A2, and A+, respectively. In addition to the cash flow generated from operations, the Company has access to equity and debt capital through numerous alternatives from public and private sources in domestic and international markets. In February 2007, the Company issued $1.2 billion principal amount of convertible senior notes due in 2014 (the Notes) in a private placement. The Notes were issued at par and bear interest at a rate of 0.875% per year, payable semiannually. The Notes are convertible based on an initial conversion rate of 22.8343 shares per $1,000 principal amount of Notes (which is equal to an initial conversion price of approximately $43.79 per share). The Notes may be converted, subject to adjustment, only under the following circumstances: 1) during any calendar quarter beginning after March 31, 2007, if the closing price of the Companys common stock for at least 20 trading days in the 30 consecutive trading days ending on the last trading day of the immediately preceding quarter is more than 140% of the applicable conversion price per share, which is $1,000 divided by the then applicable conversion rate, 2) during the five consecutive business day period immediately after any five consecutive trading day period (the note measurement period) in which the average of the trading price per $1,000 principal amount of Notes was equal to or less than 98% of the average of the product of the closing price of the Companys common stock and the conversion rate at each date during the note measurement period, 3) if the Company makes specified distributions to its common stockholders or specified corporate transactions occur, or 4) at any time on or after January 15, 2014, through the business day preceding the maturity date. Upon conversion, a holder would receive an amount in cash equal to the lesser of 1) $1,000 and 2) the conversion value, as defined. If the conversion value exceeds $1,000, the Company will deliver, at the Companys election, cash or common stock or a combination of cash and common stock for the conversion value in excess of $1,000. If the Notes are converted in connection with a change in control, as defined, the Company may be required to provide a make whole premium in the form of an increase in the conversion rate, subject to a stated maximum amount. In addition, in the event of a change in control, the holders may require the Company to purchase all or a portion of their Notes at a purchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Concurrent with the issuance of the Notes, the Company purchased call options in private transactions at a cost of $299 million. The purchased call options allow the Company to receive shares of its common stock and or cash from the counterparties equal to the amounts of common stock and or cash related to the excess of the current market price of the Companys common stock over the exercise price of the purchased call options. In addition, the Company sold warrants in private transactions to acquire, subject to customary anti dilution adjustments, 26.3 million shares of its common stock at an exercise price of $62.56 per share and received proceeds of $170 million. If the average price of the Companys common stock during a defined period ending on or about the respective settlement dates exceeds the exercise price of the warrants, the warrants will be settled, at the Companys option, in cash or shares of common stock. The purchased call options and warrants are intended to reduce the potential dilution upon future conversions of the Notes by effectively increasing the initial conversion price to $62.56 per share. Upon closing of the sale of the Notes, $370 million of the net proceeds from the Note issuance and the proceeds from the warrant transactions were used to repurchase 10.3 million shares of the Companys common stock under the Companys stock repurchase program. As of June 30, 2007, none of the conditions permitting conversion of the Notes had been satisfied. In addition, as of June 30, 2007, the market price of the Companys common stock was not greater than the exercise price of the purchased call options or warrants. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements In the normal course of business, the Company enters into contracts and commitments which obligate the Company to make payments in the future. The following table sets forth the Companys significant future obligations by time period. Purchases include commodity based contracts entered into in the normal course of business, which are further described in Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, energy related purchase contracts entered into in the normal course of business, and other purchase obligations related to the Companys normal business activities. Where applicable, information included in the Companys consolidated financial statements and notes is cross referenced in this table. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Payments Due by Period Contractual Note Less than 2 3 4 5 Over Obligations Reference Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years (In millions) Purchases Inventories $ 11,113 $ 10,312 $ 535 $ 159 $ 107 Energy 429 269 152 7 1 Other 217 67 94 43 13 Total purchases 11,759 10,648 781 209 121 Short term debt Note 7 468 468 Long term debt Note 7 4,897 65 92 425 4,315 Estimated interest payments 5,752 290 509 474 4,479 Operating leases Note 12 900 318 241 132 209 Estimated pension and other postretirement plan contributions Note 13 1,045 79 173 195 598 Total $ 24,821 $ 11,868 $ 1,796 $ 1,435 $ 9,722 At June 30, 2007, the Company estimates it will spend approximately $3.0 billion over the next four years to complete approved capital projects and acquisitions. The Company is a limited partner in various private equity funds which invest primarily in emerging markets. At June 30, 2007, the Companys carrying value of these limited partnership investments was $165 million. The Company has future capital commitments related to these partnerships of $138 million and expects the majority of these additional capital commitments, if called for, to be funded by cash flows generated by the partnerships. The Company also has outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds of $339 million at June 30, 2007. In addition, the Company has entered into agreements, primarily debt guarantee agreements related to equity method investees, which could obligate the Company to make future payments. The Companys liability under these agreements arises only if the primary entity fails to perform its contractual obligation. The Company has collateral for a portion of these contingent obligations. At June 30, 2007, these contingent obligations totaled approximately $98 million. Amounts outstanding for the primary entity under these contingent obligations were $51 million at June 30, 2007. Critical Accounting Policies The process of preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the carrying values of the Companys assets and liabilities as well as the recognition of revenues and expenses. These estimates and judgments are based on the Companys historical experience and managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Certain of the Companys accounting policies are considered critical, as these policies are important to the depiction of the Companys financial statements and require significant or complex judgment by management. Management has discussed with the Companys Audit Committee the development, selection, disclosure, and application of these critical accounting policies. Following are the accounting policies management considers critical to the Companys financial statements. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Inventories and Derivatives Certain of the Companys merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, forward fixed price purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and options contracts are valued at estimated market values. These merchandisable agricultural commodities are freely traded, have quoted market prices, and may be sold without significant additional processing. Management estimates market value based on exchange quoted prices, adjusted for differences in local markets. Changes in the market values of these inventories and contracts are recognized in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. If management used different methods or factors to estimate market value, amounts reported as inventories and cost of products sold could differ. Additionally, if market conditions change subsequent to year end, amounts reported in future periods as inventories and cost of products sold could differ. The Company, from time to time, uses derivative contracts to fix the purchase price of anticipated volumes of commodities to be purchased and processed in a future month, to fix the purchase price of the Companys anticipated natural gas requirements for certain production facilities, and to fix the sales price of anticipated volumes of ethanol. These derivative contracts are designated as cash flow hedges. The change in the market value of such derivative contracts has historically been, and is expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. If it is determined that the derivative instruments used are no longer effective at offsetting changes in the price of the hedged item, then the changes in the market value of these exchange traded futures contracts would be recorded in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. Employee Benefit Plans The Company provides substantially all domestic employees and employees at certain international subsidiaries with pension benefits. The Company also provides substantially all domestic salaried employees with postretirement health care and life insurance benefits. In order to measure the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans, management makes several estimates and assumptions, including interest rates used to discount certain liabilities, rates of return on assets set aside to fund these plans, rates of compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and anticipated future health care costs. These estimates and assumptions are based on the Companys historical experience combined with managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Management also uses third party specialists to assist in measuring the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans. If management used different estimates and assumptions regarding these plans, the funded status of the plans could vary significantly, and the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Income Taxes The Company frequently faces challenges from domestic and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company records reserves for probable exposures. Deferred tax assets represent items to be used as tax deductions or credits in future tax returns, and the related tax benefit has already been recognized in the Companys income statement. Realization of certain deferred tax assets reflects the Companys tax planning strategies. Valuation allowances related to these deferred tax assets have been established to the extent the realization of the tax benefit is not probable. Based on managements evaluation of the Companys tax position, it is believed the amounts related to these tax exposures are appropriately accrued. To the extent the Company were to favorably resolve matters for which accruals have been established or be required to pay amounts in excess of the aforementioned reserves, the Companys effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be impacted. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and affiliated corporate joint ventures accounted for on the equity method are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by unpredictable factors such as weather, plantings, government (domestic and foreign) farm programs and policies, changes in population growth, changes in standards of living, and production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned unpredictable factors, therefore, may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and profitability of the Companys fixed asset base in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its factories. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment and technology related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. Assets are abandoned after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of this fixed asset base, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Valuation of Marketable Securities and Investments in Affiliates The Company classifies the majority of its marketable securities as available for sale and carries these securities at fair value. Investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings. For publicly traded securities, the fair value of the Companys investments is readily available based on quoted market prices. For non publicly traded securities, managements assessment of fair value is based on valuation methodologies including discounted cash flows and estimates of sales proceeds. In the event of a decline in fair value of an investment below carrying value, management may be required to determine if the decline in fair value is other than temporary. In evaluating the nature of a decline in the fair value of an investment, management considers the market conditions, trends of earnings, discounted cash flows, trading volumes, and other key measures of the investment as well as the Companys ability and intent to hold the investment. When such a decline in value is deemed to be other than temporary, an impairment loss is recognized in the current period operating results to the extent of the decline. See Notes 3 and 5 to the Companys consolidated financial statements for information regarding the Companys marketable securities and investments in affiliates. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these marketable securities, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) The Company is a limited partner in various private equity funds which invest primarily in emerging markets. The Company accounts for these limited partnerships using the equity method of accounting. Therefore, the Company is recording in the consolidated statement of earnings its proportional share of the limited partnerships net income or loss. The limited partnerships value their investments at fair value. Thus, unrealized gains and losses related to the change in fair value of these investments are recorded in the limited partnerships statements of earnings. The valuation of these investments, as determined by the general partner, can be subjective, and the values may vary significantly. Some of the factors causing the subjectivity and volatility of these valuations include the illiquidity and minority positions of these investments, currency exchange rate fluctuations, less regulated securities exchanges, and the inherent business risks and limitations present in the emerging market countries. The Company records the results of these limited partnerships based on the information provided to the Company by the general partner. Due to the subjectivity and volatility in valuing these investments, the fair value of these investments, and thus the Companys results, could vary significantly over future periods. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in commodities futures prices, marketable equity security prices, market prices of limited partnerships investments, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and price of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to unpredictable factors such as weather, plantings, government (domestic and foreign) farm programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. To reduce price risk caused by market fluctuations, the Company generally follows a policy of using exchange traded futures and options contracts to minimize its net position of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories and forward cash purchase and sales contracts. The Company will also use exchange traded futures and options contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the volatility of the relationship between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contracts defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company from time to time enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) A sensitivity analysis has been prepared to estimate the Companys exposure to market risk of its daily net commodity position. The Companys daily net commodity position consists of inventories, related purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures contracts, including those contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements. The fair value of such daily net commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing each net position at quoted futures prices. Market risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in such prices. Actual results may differ. 2007 2006 Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest long position $ 703 $ 70 $ 510 $ 51 Highest short position 565 57 574 57 Average position long (short) 180 18 (203 ) (20 ) The change in fair value of the average position for 2007 compared to 2006 was principally a result of changes in the daily net commodity position and commodity prices. Marketable Equity Securities Marketable equity securities, which are recorded at fair value, have exposure to price risk. The fair value of marketable equity securities is based on quoted market prices. Risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted market prices. Actual results may differ. 2007 2006 (In millions) Fair value $ 227 $ 640 Market risk 23 64 The decrease in fair value for 2007 compared to 2006 resulted primarily from disposals of securities partially offset by increases in fair market value of certain securities. Limited Partnerships The Company is a limited partner in various private equity funds which invest primarily in emerging markets. The Company accounts for these limited partnerships using the equity method of accounting. Therefore, the Company is recording in the consolidated statement of earnings its proportional share of the limited partnerships net income or loss. The limited partnerships value their investments at fair value. Risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in market prices of the limited partnerships investments. Actual results may differ. 2007 2006 (In millions) Fair value of partnerships investments $ 188 $ 210 Market risk 19 21 The decrease in fair value for 2007 compared to 2006 resulted primarily from returns of capital. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) Currencies In order to reduce the risk of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, except for amounts permanently invested as described below, the Company follows a policy of entering into currency exchange forward contracts to mitigate its foreign currency risk related to transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currencies applicable to each of its various entities. The instruments used are readily marketable exchange traded futures contracts and forward contracts with banks. The changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $5.4 billion at June 30, 2007, and $4.5 billion at June 30, 2006. This increase is due to an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and appreciation of foreign currency exchange rates. The potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $543 million and $454 million for 2007 and 2006, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical .5 % decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2007 2006 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 4,927 $ 4,387 Excess of fair value over carrying value 110 257 Market risk 204 218 The increase in fair value of long term debt in 2007 resulted principally from the Companys issuance of $1.2 billion convertible senior notes partially offset by repayment of $400 million of debentures and other principal payments of long term debt. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Net earnings increased principally due to improved operating results of Oilseeds Processing and Corn Processing. In addition, net earnings also increased due to a $36 million reduction in income tax expense related to the recognition of federal and state income tax credits and adjustments resulting from the reconciliation of filed tax returns to the previously estimated tax provision. Earnings before income taxes for 2006 include charges of $31 million resulting from the Companys adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) Number 123(R), Share Based Payment, $15 million resulting from the Companys adoption of FIN 47, $71 million related to abandonment and write down of long lived assets, $9 million representing the Companys share of a charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets reported by an unconsolidated affiliate of the Company, and $22 million associated with the closure of a citric acid plant and exiting the European animal feed business. Earnings before income taxes for 2006 also include credits of $12 million from the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations, $17 million from the sale of long lived assets, $46 million related to Brazilian transactional tax credits, and $40 million related to realized securities gains. Earnings before income taxes for 2005 included credits of $114 million from the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations, $114 million of realized securities gain from the sale of Tate & Lyle PLC shares, and $45 million representing the Companys equity share of the gain reported by the Companys unconsolidated affiliate, Compagnie Industrielle et Financiere des Produits Amylaces SA (CIP), upon the sale of its interest in Tate & Lyle PLC (the CIP Gain). Earnings before income taxes for 2005 also include a $42 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Analysis of Statements of Earnings Net sales and other operating income increased 2% to $36.6 billion due primarily to higher average selling prices of agricultural commodities and increased sales volumes and selling prices of corn processing products, partially offset by decreased average selling prices of cocoa products and currency exchange rate decreases of $415 million. Net sales and other operating income by segment are as follows: 2006 2005 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing $ 11,867 $ 11,803 $ 64 Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 2,133 1,905 228 Bioproducts 2,727 2,459 268 Total Corn Processing 4,860 4,364 496 Agricultural Services 15,440 15,198 242 Other Food, Feed, and Industrial 4,354 4,506 (152 ) Financial 75 72 3 Total Other 4,429 4,578 (149 ) Total $ 36,596 $ 35,943 653 Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Oilseeds Processing sales increased $64 million to $11.9 billion principally due to higher average selling prices of South American oilseed exports and of vegetable oil. These increases were partially offset by lower average selling prices of protein meal. Corn Processing sales increased 11% to $4.9 billion due to sales increases in both Sweeteners and Starches and Bioproducts. Sweeteners and Starches sales increased due to higher average selling prices and sales volumes. Sales volumes and prices have increased primarily due to solid demand for sweetener and starch products. Bioproducts sales increased primarily due to increased sales volumes and average selling prices of ethanol, partially offset by lower average selling prices of lysine. The increases in ethanol sales volumes and sales prices were principally due to increased demand from gasoline refiners as refiners used ethanol to replace MTBE as a gasoline additive and to increased gasoline prices. Agricultural Services sales increased 2% to $15.4 billion primarily due to increased commodity prices in North America and, to a lesser extent, increased barge freight rates as the gulf coast hurricanes reduced barge capacities and created strong demand for North American river transportation. These increases were partially offset by decreased commodity sales volumes in North America. The decreased sales volumes were primarily due to disruptions in North American grain origination and export activities caused by the hurricanes in the gulf coast region. Other sales decreased 3% to $4.4 billion primarily due to decreased average selling prices of cocoa products and lower sales volumes of formula feed products. These decreases were partially offset by increased average selling prices of wheat flour products due to higher commodity prices. Cost of products sold increased $118 million to $33.6 billion due primarily to higher average prices of agricultural commodities and increased manufacturing costs, partially offset by currency exchange rate decreases of $389 million. Manufacturing costs increased $399 million primarily due to increased energy costs, an $86 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets, and increased employee related costs. Selling, general, and administrative expenses increased $112 million to $1.2 billion principally due to increased employee related costs, including a $31 million charge related to the adoption of SFAS 123(R), $20 million of severance costs associated with the closure of a citric acid plant, and increased provisions for doubtful accounts. Other income decreased $84 million due primarily to a $73 million decrease in realized securities gains, a $55 million decrease in equity in earnings of affiliates, and a $39 million increase in interest expense, partially offset by a $69 million increase in investment income. The decrease in realized securities gains is primarily due to the $114 million realized securities gain in 2005 from the sale of Tate & Lyle PLC shares, partially offset by $40 million of realized securities gains during 2006. The decrease in equity in earnings of affiliates is primarily due to the CIP Gain in 2005 and lower valuations of the Companys private equity fund investments in 2006, partially offset by improved earnings of the Companys Asian oilseed crushing ventures. Interest expense increased primarily due to higher average borrowing levels and interest rates. Investment income increased primarily due to the reversal of $19 million of Brazilian transactional taxes previously assessed on investment income upon positive resolution in the Brazilian Supreme Court, higher levels of invested funds, and higher interest rates. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Operating profit by segment is as follows: 2006 2005 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing $ 599 $ 345 $ 254 Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 431 271 160 Bioproducts 446 259 187 Total Corn Processing 877 530 347 Agricultural Services 275 262 13 Other Food, Feed, and Industrial 159 263 (104 ) Financial 151 151 Total Other 310 414 (104 ) Total Segment Operating Profit 2,061 1,551 510 Corporate (206 ) (35 ) (171 ) Earnings Before Income Taxes $ 1,855 $ 1,516 $ 339 Oilseeds Processing operating profits increased $254 million to $599 million primarily due to improved market conditions in all geographic regions. European processing results improved principally due to strong demand for biodiesel and abundant rapeseed supplies in Europe. This strong demand for biodiesel in Europe increased European vegetable oil demand and resulted in improved oilseeds processing results. Abundant rapeseed supplies in Europe resulted in lower rapeseed price levels. North American processing results improved principally due to abundant oilseed supplies in the United States and good demand for soybean meal. Vegetable oil values were solid as the markets anticipate new demand from the developing United States biodiesel industry. South American operating results increased primarily due to improved origination activities and a $27 million credit for Brazilian transactional taxes. Operating results in Asia increased due to improved soy crushing margins and improved palm operations. Operating profits include a $14 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets and a $6 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47. Operating profits for 2005 include a charge of $13 million for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Corn Processing operating profits increased $347 million to $877 million primarily due to higher average selling prices, increased sales volumes, and lower net corn costs, partially offset by increased energy costs. Sweeteners and Starches operating profits increased $160 million due primarily to decreased net corn costs and higher average sales prices and sales volumes. Sales volumes and prices have increased primarily due to good demand for sweetener and starch products. These increases were partially offset by increased energy costs. Sweeteners and Starches operating profits include a $5 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47. Bioproducts operating profits increased $187 million primarily due to higher ethanol sales volumes and average selling prices and decreased net corn costs, partially offset by increased energy costs and lower lysine average selling prices. The increases in ethanol sales volumes and average sales prices were principally due to increased demand from gasoline refiners as refiners used ethanol to replace MTBE as a gasoline additive and from increased gasoline prices. Bioproducts operating profits include a $6 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets, a $2 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47, and $6 million of costs related to the closure of a citric acid plant. Bioproducts operating profits for 2005 include a $16 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Agricultural Services operating profits increased $13 million to $275 million as improved results from transportation operations were partially offset by a decline in global grain merchandising and North American origination operating results. North American river transportation operating results increased primarily due to increased barge freight rates created by strong demand for barge capacity. This increase was partially offset by increased fuel costs. The gulf coast hurricanes negatively impacted North American origination and export activities during the first half of 2006. Other operating profits decreased $104 million to $310 million. Other Food, Feed, and Industrial operating results decreased $104 million due primarily to a $51 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets, a $2 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47, and a $9 million charge representing the Companys share of a charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets reported by an unconsolidated affiliate of the Company. In addition, cocoa processing, natural health and nutrition, and formula feed operating results declined from prior year levels. Cocoa processing operating results declined primarily due to increased industry capacity which caused downward pressure on cocoa finished product prices. Formula feed operating results declined due to costs associated with exiting the European animal feed business. Other Food, Feed, and Industrial operating profits include a $17 million gain from the sale of long lived assets. Other Food, Feed, and Industrial operating results for 2005 include a $13 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Other Financial operating profits are comparable to prior year levels as improvements in the Companys captive insurance operations and futures commission merchant business offset lower valuations of the Companys private equity fund investments. Corporate decreased $171 million due primarily to a $102 million decrease in income from the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations, the $114 million realized securities gain in 2005 from the sale of Tate & Lyle PLC shares, the CIP Gain in 2005, and a $22 million charge in 2006 upon the adoption of SFAS 123(R), partially offset by the aforementioned $19 million reversal of Brazilian transactional taxes and a $97 million reduction in unallocated interest expense. The reduction in unallocated interest expense is due principally to higher levels of invested funds and higher interest rates. Income taxes increased due principally to higher pretax earnings. This increase was partially offset by a $36 million reduction in income tax expense related to the recognition of federal and state income tax credits and adjustments resulting from the reconciliation of filed tax returns to the previously estimated tax provision. The Companys effective tax rate for 2006 was 29.3% as compared to 31.1% for 2005. Excluding the effect of the $36 million tax credit, the Companys effective tax rate was 31.2% for 2006 and, after excluding the effect of the CIP Gain, was 32.1% for 2005. No tax was provided on the CIP Gain in 2005, as CIP is a corporate joint venture of the Company and the proceeds from the sale are permanently reinvested. Excluding the effect of the $36 million tax credit in 2006 and the CIP Gain in 2005, the decrease in the Companys effective tax rate is primarily due to changes in the geographic mix of pretax earnings. Liquidity and Capital Resources The Companys objective is to have sufficient liquidity, balance sheet strength, and financial flexibility to fund the operating and capital requirements of a capital intensive agricultural based commodity business. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) At June 30, 2007, the Company continued to show substantial liquidity with working capital of $7.3 billion and a current ratio, defined as current assets divided by current liabilities, of 1.9 to 1. Included in working capital is $875 million of cash, cash equivalents, and short term marketable securities as well as $4.4 billion of readily marketable commodity inventories. Cash generated from operating activities totaled $303 million for the year compared to $1.4 billion last year. This decrease was primarily due to an increase in working capital requirements principally related to increased prices and quantities of agricultural commodity inventories and increased receivables, partially offset by increased cash earnings. Despite increased investment in property, plant, and equipment, cash used in investing activities decreased $714 million for the year to $355 million due primarily to increased sales of marketable securities and proceeds from sales of businesses including the sale of the Companys equity interests in Tyson Foods, Inc., Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc. and Agricore United. Cash used in financing activities was $398 million compared to cash generated by financing activities of $284 million last year. Net long term borrowings increased primarily as a result of the issuance of $1.2 billion of convertible senior notes in February 2007 (described in detail below), compared to $600 million of 30 year debentures issued in September 2005. This increase was partially offset by $283 million of increased payments on long term debt principally related to the Company retiring $400 million of debentures in 2007. Capital resources were strengthened as shown by the increase in the Companys net worth from $9.8 billion to $11.3 billion. The Companys ratio of long term debt to total capital (the sum of the Companys long term debt and shareholders equity) was 30% at June 30, 2007, and 29% at June 30, 2006. This ratio is a measure of the Companys long term liquidity and is an indicator of financial flexibility. The Company currently has $3.9 billion of commercial paper and commercial bank lines available to meet seasonal cash requirements of which $2.6 billion are committed and $1.3 billion are uncommitted. At June 30, 2007, the Company had $468 million of short term debt outstanding. Standard & Poors, Moodys, and Fitch rate the Companys commercial paper as A 1, P 1, and F1, respectively, and rate the Companys long term debt as A, A2, and A+, respectively. In addition to the cash flow generated from operations, the Company has access to equity and debt capital through numerous alternatives from public and private sources in domestic and international markets. In February 2007, the Company issued $1.2 billion principal amount of convertible senior notes due in 2014 (the Notes) in a private placement. The Notes were issued at par and bear interest at a rate of 0.875% per year, payable semiannually. The Notes are convertible based on an initial conversion rate of 22.8343 shares per $1,000 principal amount of Notes (which is equal to an initial conversion price of approximately $43.79 per share). The Notes may be converted, subject to adjustment, only under the following circumstances: 1) during any calendar quarter beginning after March 31, 2007, if the closing price of the Companys common stock for at least 20 trading days in the 30 consecutive trading days ending on the last trading day of the immediately preceding quarter is more than 140% of the applicable conversion price per share, which is $1,000 divided by the then applicable conversion rate, 2) during the five consecutive business day period immediately after any five consecutive trading day period (the note measurement period) in which the average of the trading price per $1,000 principal amount of Notes was equal to or less than 98% of the average of the product of the closing price of the Companys common stock and the conversion rate at each date during the note measurement period, 3) if the Company makes specified distributions to its common stockholders or specified corporate transactions occur, or 4) at any time on or after January 15, 2014, through the business day preceding the maturity date. Upon conversion, a holder would receive an amount in cash equal to the lesser of 1) $1,000 and 2) the conversion value, as defined. If the conversion value exceeds $1,000, the Company will deliver, at the Companys election, cash or common stock or a combination of cash and common stock for the conversion value in excess of $1,000. If the Notes are converted in connection with a change in control, as defined, the Company may be required to provide a make whole premium in the form of an increase in the conversion rate, subject to a stated maximum amount. In addition, in the event of a change in control, the holders may require the Company to purchase all or a portion of their Notes at a purchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Concurrent with the issuance of the Notes, the Company purchased call options in private transactions at a cost of $299 million. The purchased call options allow the Company to receive shares of its common stock and or cash from the counterparties equal to the amounts of common stock and or cash related to the excess of the current market price of the Companys common stock over the exercise price of the purchased call options. In addition, the Company sold warrants in private transactions to acquire, subject to customary anti dilution adjustments, 26.3 million shares of its common stock at an exercise price of $62.56 per share and received proceeds of $170 million. If the average price of the Companys common stock during a defined period ending on or about the respective settlement dates exceeds the exercise price of the warrants, the warrants will be settled, at the Companys option, in cash or shares of common stock. The purchased call options and warrants are intended to reduce the potential dilution upon future conversions of the Notes by effectively increasing the initial conversion price to $62.56 per share. Upon closing of the sale of the Notes, $370 million of the net proceeds from the Note issuance and the proceeds from the warrant transactions were used to repurchase 10.3 million shares of the Companys common stock under the Companys stock repurchase program. As of June 30, 2007, none of the conditions permitting conversion of the Notes had been satisfied. In addition, as of June 30, 2007, the market price of the Companys common stock was not greater than the exercise price of the purchased call options or warrants. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements In the normal course of business, the Company enters into contracts and commitments which obligate the Company to make payments in the future. The following table sets forth the Companys significant future obligations by time period. Purchases include commodity based contracts entered into in the normal course of business, which are further described in Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, energy related purchase contracts entered into in the normal course of business, and other purchase obligations related to the Companys normal business activities. Where applicable, information included in the Companys consolidated financial statements and notes is cross referenced in this table. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Payments Due by Period Contractual Note Less than 2 3 4 5 Over Obligations Reference Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years (In millions) Purchases Inventories $ 11,113 $ 10,312 $ 535 $ 159 $ 107 Energy 429 269 152 7 1 Other 217 67 94 43 13 Total purchases 11,759 10,648 781 209 121 Short term debt Note 7 468 468 Long term debt Note 7 4,897 65 92 425 4,315 Estimated interest payments 5,752 290 509 474 4,479 Operating leases Note 12 900 318 241 132 209 Estimated pension and other postretirement plan contributions Note 13 1,045 79 173 195 598 Total $ 24,821 $ 11,868 $ 1,796 $ 1,435 $ 9,722 At June 30, 2007, the Company estimates it will spend approximately $3.0 billion over the next four years to complete approved capital projects and acquisitions. The Company is a limited partner in various private equity funds which invest primarily in emerging markets. At June 30, 2007, the Companys carrying value of these limited partnership investments was $165 million. The Company has future capital commitments related to these partnerships of $138 million and expects the majority of these additional capital commitments, if called for, to be funded by cash flows generated by the partnerships. The Company also has outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds of $339 million at June 30, 2007. In addition, the Company has entered into agreements, primarily debt guarantee agreements related to equity method investees, which could obligate the Company to make future payments. The Companys liability under these agreements arises only if the primary entity fails to perform its contractual obligation. The Company has collateral for a portion of these contingent obligations. At June 30, 2007, these contingent obligations totaled approximately $98 million. Amounts outstanding for the primary entity under these contingent obligations were $51 million at June 30, 2007. Critical Accounting Policies The process of preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the carrying values of the Companys assets and liabilities as well as the recognition of revenues and expenses. These estimates and judgments are based on the Companys historical experience and managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Certain of the Companys accounting policies are considered critical, as these policies are important to the depiction of the Companys financial statements and require significant or complex judgment by management. Management has discussed with the Companys Audit Committee the development, selection, disclosure, and application of these critical accounting policies. Following are the accounting policies management considers critical to the Companys financial statements. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Inventories and Derivatives Certain of the Companys merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, forward fixed price purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and options contracts are valued at estimated market values. These merchandisable agricultural commodities are freely traded, have quoted market prices, and may be sold without significant additional processing. Management estimates market value based on exchange quoted prices, adjusted for differences in local markets. Changes in the market values of these inventories and contracts are recognized in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. If management used different methods or factors to estimate market value, amounts reported as inventories and cost of products sold could differ. Additionally, if market conditions change subsequent to year end, amounts reported in future periods as inventories and cost of products sold could differ. The Company, from time to time, uses derivative contracts to fix the purchase price of anticipated volumes of commodities to be purchased and processed in a future month, to fix the purchase price of the Companys anticipated natural gas requirements for certain production facilities, and to fix the sales price of anticipated volumes of ethanol. These derivative contracts are designated as cash flow hedges. The change in the market value of such derivative contracts has historically been, and is expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. If it is determined that the derivative instruments used are no longer effective at offsetting changes in the price of the hedged item, then the changes in the market value of these exchange traded futures contracts would be recorded in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. Employee Benefit Plans The Company provides substantially all domestic employees and employees at certain international subsidiaries with pension benefits. The Company also provides substantially all domestic salaried employees with postretirement health care and life insurance benefits. In order to measure the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans, management makes several estimates and assumptions, including interest rates used to discount certain liabilities, rates of return on assets set aside to fund these plans, rates of compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and anticipated future health care costs. These estimates and assumptions are based on the Companys historical experience combined with managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Management also uses third party specialists to assist in measuring the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans. If management used different estimates and assumptions regarding these plans, the funded status of the plans could vary significantly, and the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Income Taxes The Company frequently faces challenges from domestic and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company records reserves for probable exposures. Deferred tax assets represent items to be used as tax deductions or credits in future tax returns, and the related tax benefit has already been recognized in the Companys income statement. Realization of certain deferred tax assets reflects the Companys tax planning strategies. Valuation allowances related to these deferred tax assets have been established to the extent the realization of the tax benefit is not probable. Based on managements evaluation of the Companys tax position, it is believed the amounts related to these tax exposures are appropriately accrued. To the extent the Company were to favorably resolve matters for which accruals have been established or be required to pay amounts in excess of the aforementioned reserves, the Companys effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be impacted. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and affiliated corporate joint ventures accounted for on the equity method are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by unpredictable factors such as weather, plantings, government (domestic and foreign) farm programs and policies, changes in population growth, changes in standards of living, and production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned unpredictable factors, therefore, may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and profitability of the Companys fixed asset base in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its factories. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment and technology related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. Assets are abandoned after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of this fixed asset base, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Valuation of Marketable Securities and Investments in Affiliates The Company classifies the majority of its marketable securities as available for sale and carries these securities at fair value. Investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings. For publicly traded securities, the fair value of the Companys investments is readily available based on quoted market prices. For non publicly traded securities, managements assessment of fair value is based on valuation methodologies including discounted cash flows and estimates of sales proceeds. In the event of a decline in fair value of an investment below carrying value, management may be required to determine if the decline in fair value is other than temporary. In evaluating the nature of a decline in the fair value of an investment, management considers the market conditions, trends of earnings, discounted cash flows, trading volumes, and other key measures of the investment as well as the Companys ability and intent to hold the investment. When such a decline in value is deemed to be other than temporary, an impairment loss is recognized in the current period operating results to the extent of the decline. See Notes 3 and 5 to the Companys consolidated financial statements for information regarding the Companys marketable securities and investments in affiliates. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these marketable securities, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) The Company is a limited partner in various private equity funds which invest primarily in emerging markets. The Company accounts for these limited partnerships using the equity method of accounting. Therefore, the Company is recording in the consolidated statement of earnings its proportional share of the limited partnerships net income or loss. The limited partnerships value their investments at fair value. Thus, unrealized gains and losses related to the change in fair value of these investments are recorded in the limited partnerships statements of earnings. The valuation of these investments, as determined by the general partner, can be subjective, and the values may vary significantly. Some of the factors causing the subjectivity and volatility of these valuations include the illiquidity and minority positions of these investments, currency exchange rate fluctuations, less regulated securities exchanges, and the inherent business risks and limitations present in the emerging market countries. The Company records the results of these limited partnerships based on the information provided to the Company by the general partner. Due to the subjectivity and volatility in valuing these investments, the fair value of these investments, and thus the Companys results, could vary significantly over future periods. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in commodities futures prices, marketable equity security prices, market prices of limited partnerships investments, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and price of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to unpredictable factors such as weather, plantings, government (domestic and foreign) farm programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. To reduce price risk caused by market fluctuations, the Company generally follows a policy of using exchange traded futures and options contracts to minimize its net position of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories and forward cash purchase and sales contracts. The Company will also use exchange traded futures and options contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the volatility of the relationship between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contracts defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company from time to time enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) A sensitivity analysis has been prepared to estimate the Companys exposure to market risk of its daily net commodity position. The Companys daily net commodity position consists of inventories, related purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures contracts, including those contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements. The fair value of such daily net commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing each net position at quoted futures prices. Market risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in such prices. Actual results may differ. 2007 2006 Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest long position $ 703 $ 70 $ 510 $ 51 Highest short position 565 57 574 57 Average position long (short) 180 18 (203 ) (20 ) The change in fair value of the average position for 2007 compared to 2006 was principally a result of changes in the daily net commodity position and commodity prices. Marketable Equity Securities Marketable equity securities, which are recorded at fair value, have exposure to price risk. The fair value of marketable equity securities is based on quoted market prices. Risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted market prices. Actual results may differ. 2007 2006 (In millions) Fair value $ 227 $ 640 Market risk 23 64 The decrease in fair value for 2007 compared to 2006 resulted primarily from disposals of securities partially offset by increases in fair market value of certain securities. Limited Partnerships The Company is a limited partner in various private equity funds which invest primarily in emerging markets. The Company accounts for these limited partnerships using the equity method of accounting. Therefore, the Company is recording in the consolidated statement of earnings its proportional share of the limited partnerships net income or loss. The limited partnerships value their investments at fair value. Risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in market prices of the limited partnerships investments. Actual results may differ. 2007 2006 (In millions) Fair value of partnerships investments $ 188 $ 210 Market risk 19 21 The decrease in fair value for 2007 compared to 2006 resulted primarily from returns of capital. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) Currencies In order to reduce the risk of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, except for amounts permanently invested as described below, the Company follows a policy of entering into currency exchange forward contracts to mitigate its foreign currency risk related to transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currencies applicable to each of its various entities. The instruments used are readily marketable exchange traded futures contracts and forward contracts with banks. The changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $5.4 billion at June 30, 2007, and $4.5 billion at June 30, 2006. This increase is due to an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and appreciation of foreign currency exchange rates. The potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $543 million and $454 million for 2007 and 2006, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical .5 % decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2007 2006 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 4,927 $ 4,387 Excess of fair value over carrying value 110 257 Market risk 204 218 The increase in fair value of long term debt in 2007 resulted principally from the Companys issuance of $1.2 billion convertible senior notes partially offset by repayment of $400 million of debentures and other principal payments of long term debt. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Oilseeds Processing sales increased $64 million to $11.9 billion principally due to higher average selling prices of South American oilseed exports and of vegetable oil. These increases were partially offset by lower average selling prices of protein meal. Corn Processing sales increased 11% to $4.9 billion due to sales increases in both Sweeteners and Starches and Bioproducts. Sweeteners and Starches sales increased due to higher average selling prices and sales volumes. Sales volumes and prices have increased primarily due to solid demand for sweetener and starch products. Bioproducts sales increased primarily due to increased sales volumes and average selling prices of ethanol, partially offset by lower average selling prices of lysine. The increases in ethanol sales volumes and sales prices were principally due to increased demand from gasoline refiners as refiners used ethanol to replace MTBE as a gasoline additive and to increased gasoline prices. Agricultural Services sales increased 2% to $15.4 billion primarily due to increased commodity prices in North America and, to a lesser extent, increased barge freight rates as the gulf coast hurricanes reduced barge capacities and created strong demand for North American river transportation. These increases were partially offset by decreased commodity sales volumes in North America. The decreased sales volumes were primarily due to disruptions in North American grain origination and export activities caused by the hurricanes in the gulf coast region. Other sales decreased 3% to $4.4 billion primarily due to decreased average selling prices of cocoa products and lower sales volumes of formula feed products. These decreases were partially offset by increased average selling prices of wheat flour products due to higher commodity prices. Cost of products sold increased $118 million to $33.6 billion due primarily to higher average prices of agricultural commodities and increased manufacturing costs, partially offset by currency exchange rate decreases of $389 million. Manufacturing costs increased $399 million primarily due to increased energy costs, an $86 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets, and increased employee related costs. Selling, general, and administrative expenses increased $112 million to $1.2 billion principally due to increased employee related costs, including a $31 million charge related to the adoption of SFAS 123(R), $20 million of severance costs associated with the closure of a citric acid plant, and increased provisions for doubtful accounts. Other income decreased $84 million due primarily to a $73 million decrease in realized securities gains, a $55 million decrease in equity in earnings of affiliates, and a $39 million increase in interest expense, partially offset by a $69 million increase in investment income. The decrease in realized securities gains is primarily due to the $114 million realized securities gain in 2005 from the sale of Tate & Lyle PLC shares, partially offset by $40 million of realized securities gains during 2006. The decrease in equity in earnings of affiliates is primarily due to the CIP Gain in 2005 and lower valuations of the Companys private equity fund investments in 2006, partially offset by improved earnings of the Companys Asian oilseed crushing ventures. Interest expense increased primarily due to higher average borrowing levels and interest rates. Investment income increased primarily due to the reversal of $19 million of Brazilian transactional taxes previously assessed on investment income upon positive resolution in the Brazilian Supreme Court, higher levels of invested funds, and higher interest rates. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Operating profit by segment is as follows: 2006 2005 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing $ 599 $ 345 $ 254 Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 431 271 160 Bioproducts 446 259 187 Total Corn Processing 877 530 347 Agricultural Services 275 262 13 Other Food, Feed, and Industrial 159 263 (104 ) Financial 151 151 Total Other 310 414 (104 ) Total Segment Operating Profit 2,061 1,551 510 Corporate (206 ) (35 ) (171 ) Earnings Before Income Taxes $ 1,855 $ 1,516 $ 339 Oilseeds Processing operating profits increased $254 million to $599 million primarily due to improved market conditions in all geographic regions. European processing results improved principally due to strong demand for biodiesel and abundant rapeseed supplies in Europe. This strong demand for biodiesel in Europe increased European vegetable oil demand and resulted in improved oilseeds processing results. Abundant rapeseed supplies in Europe resulted in lower rapeseed price levels. North American processing results improved principally due to abundant oilseed supplies in the United States and good demand for soybean meal. Vegetable oil values were solid as the markets anticipate new demand from the developing United States biodiesel industry. South American operating results increased primarily due to improved origination activities and a $27 million credit for Brazilian transactional taxes. Operating results in Asia increased due to improved soy crushing margins and improved palm operations. Operating profits include a $14 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets and a $6 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47. Operating profits for 2005 include a charge of $13 million for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Corn Processing operating profits increased $347 million to $877 million primarily due to higher average selling prices, increased sales volumes, and lower net corn costs, partially offset by increased energy costs. Sweeteners and Starches operating profits increased $160 million due primarily to decreased net corn costs and higher average sales prices and sales volumes. Sales volumes and prices have increased primarily due to good demand for sweetener and starch products. These increases were partially offset by increased energy costs. Sweeteners and Starches operating profits include a $5 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47. Bioproducts operating profits increased $187 million primarily due to higher ethanol sales volumes and average selling prices and decreased net corn costs, partially offset by increased energy costs and lower lysine average selling prices. The increases in ethanol sales volumes and average sales prices were principally due to increased demand from gasoline refiners as refiners used ethanol to replace MTBE as a gasoline additive and from increased gasoline prices. Bioproducts operating profits include a $6 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets, a $2 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47, and $6 million of costs related to the closure of a citric acid plant. Bioproducts operating profits for 2005 include a $16 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Agricultural Services operating profits increased $13 million to $275 million as improved results from transportation operations were partially offset by a decline in global grain merchandising and North American origination operating results. North American river transportation operating results increased primarily due to increased barge freight rates created by strong demand for barge capacity. This increase was partially offset by increased fuel costs. The gulf coast hurricanes negatively impacted North American origination and export activities during the first half of 2006. Other operating profits decreased $104 million to $310 million. Other Food, Feed, and Industrial operating results decreased $104 million due primarily to a $51 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets, a $2 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47, and a $9 million charge representing the Companys share of a charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets reported by an unconsolidated affiliate of the Company. In addition, cocoa processing, natural health and nutrition, and formula feed operating results declined from prior year levels. Cocoa processing operating results declined primarily due to increased industry capacity which caused downward pressure on cocoa finished product prices. Formula feed operating results declined due to costs associated with exiting the European animal feed business. Other Food, Feed, and Industrial operating profits include a $17 million gain from the sale of long lived assets. Other Food, Feed, and Industrial operating results for 2005 include a $13 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Other Financial operating profits are comparable to prior year levels as improvements in the Companys captive insurance operations and futures commission merchant business offset lower valuations of the Companys private equity fund investments. Corporate decreased $171 million due primarily to a $102 million decrease in income from the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations, the $114 million realized securities gain in 2005 from the sale of Tate & Lyle PLC shares, the CIP Gain in 2005, and a $22 million charge in 2006 upon the adoption of SFAS 123(R), partially offset by the aforementioned $19 million reversal of Brazilian transactional taxes and a $97 million reduction in unallocated interest expense. The reduction in unallocated interest expense is due principally to higher levels of invested funds and higher interest rates. Income taxes increased due principally to higher pretax earnings. This increase was partially offset by a $36 million reduction in income tax expense related to the recognition of federal and state income tax credits and adjustments resulting from the reconciliation of filed tax returns to the previously estimated tax provision. The Companys effective tax rate for 2006 was 29.3% as compared to 31.1% for 2005. Excluding the effect of the $36 million tax credit, the Companys effective tax rate was 31.2% for 2006 and, after excluding the effect of the CIP Gain, was 32.1% for 2005. No tax was provided on the CIP Gain in 2005, as CIP is a corporate joint venture of the Company and the proceeds from the sale are permanently reinvested. Excluding the effect of the $36 million tax credit in 2006 and the CIP Gain in 2005, the decrease in the Companys effective tax rate is primarily due to changes in the geographic mix of pretax earnings. Liquidity and Capital Resources The Companys objective is to have sufficient liquidity, balance sheet strength, and financial flexibility to fund the operating and capital requirements of a capital intensive agricultural based commodity business. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) At June 30, 2007, the Company continued to show substantial liquidity with working capital of $7.3 billion and a current ratio, defined as current assets divided by current liabilities, of 1.9 to 1. Included in working capital is $875 million of cash, cash equivalents, and short term marketable securities as well as $4.4 billion of readily marketable commodity inventories. Cash generated from operating activities totaled $303 million for the year compared to $1.4 billion last year. This decrease was primarily due to an increase in working capital requirements principally related to increased prices and quantities of agricultural commodity inventories and increased receivables, partially offset by increased cash earnings. Despite increased investment in property, plant, and equipment, cash used in investing activities decreased $714 million for the year to $355 million due primarily to increased sales of marketable securities and proceeds from sales of businesses including the sale of the Companys equity interests in Tyson Foods, Inc., Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc. and Agricore United. Cash used in financing activities was $398 million compared to cash generated by financing activities of $284 million last year. Net long term borrowings increased primarily as a result of the issuance of $1.2 billion of convertible senior notes in February 2007 (described in detail below), compared to $600 million of 30 year debentures issued in September 2005. This increase was partially offset by $283 million of increased payments on long term debt principally related to the Company retiring $400 million of debentures in 2007. Capital resources were strengthened as shown by the increase in the Companys net worth from $9.8 billion to $11.3 billion. The Companys ratio of long term debt to total capital (the sum of the Companys long term debt and shareholders equity) was 30% at June 30, 2007, and 29% at June 30, 2006. This ratio is a measure of the Companys long term liquidity and is an indicator of financial flexibility. The Company currently has $3.9 billion of commercial paper and commercial bank lines available to meet seasonal cash requirements of which $2.6 billion are committed and $1.3 billion are uncommitted. At June 30, 2007, the Company had $468 million of short term debt outstanding. Standard & Poors, Moodys, and Fitch rate the Companys commercial paper as A 1, P 1, and F1, respectively, and rate the Companys long term debt as A, A2, and A+, respectively. In addition to the cash flow generated from operations, the Company has access to equity and debt capital through numerous alternatives from public and private sources in domestic and international markets. In February 2007, the Company issued $1.2 billion principal amount of convertible senior notes due in 2014 (the Notes) in a private placement. The Notes were issued at par and bear interest at a rate of 0.875% per year, payable semiannually. The Notes are convertible based on an initial conversion rate of 22.8343 shares per $1,000 principal amount of Notes (which is equal to an initial conversion price of approximately $43.79 per share). The Notes may be converted, subject to adjustment, only under the following circumstances: 1) during any calendar quarter beginning after March 31, 2007, if the closing price of the Companys common stock for at least 20 trading days in the 30 consecutive trading days ending on the last trading day of the immediately preceding quarter is more than 140% of the applicable conversion price per share, which is $1,000 divided by the then applicable conversion rate, 2) during the five consecutive business day period immediately after any five consecutive trading day period (the note measurement period) in which the average of the trading price per $1,000 principal amount of Notes was equal to or less than 98% of the average of the product of the closing price of the Companys common stock and the conversion rate at each date during the note measurement period, 3) if the Company makes specified distributions to its common stockholders or specified corporate transactions occur, or 4) at any time on or after January 15, 2014, through the business day preceding the maturity date. Upon conversion, a holder would receive an amount in cash equal to the lesser of 1) $1,000 and 2) the conversion value, as defined. If the conversion value exceeds $1,000, the Company will deliver, at the Companys election, cash or common stock or a combination of cash and common stock for the conversion value in excess of $1,000. If the Notes are converted in connection with a change in control, as defined, the Company may be required to provide a make whole premium in the form of an increase in the conversion rate, subject to a stated maximum amount. In addition, in the event of a change in control, the holders may require the Company to purchase all or a portion of their Notes at a purchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Concurrent with the issuance of the Notes, the Company purchased call options in private transactions at a cost of $299 million. The purchased call options allow the Company to receive shares of its common stock and or cash from the counterparties equal to the amounts of common stock and or cash related to the excess of the current market price of the Companys common stock over the exercise price of the purchased call options. In addition, the Company sold warrants in private transactions to acquire, subject to customary anti dilution adjustments, 26.3 million shares of its common stock at an exercise price of $62.56 per share and received proceeds of $170 million. If the average price of the Companys common stock during a defined period ending on or about the respective settlement dates exceeds the exercise price of the warrants, the warrants will be settled, at the Companys option, in cash or shares of common stock. The purchased call options and warrants are intended to reduce the potential dilution upon future conversions of the Notes by effectively increasing the initial conversion price to $62.56 per share. Upon closing of the sale of the Notes, $370 million of the net proceeds from the Note issuance and the proceeds from the warrant transactions were used to repurchase 10.3 million shares of the Companys common stock under the Companys stock repurchase program. As of June 30, 2007, none of the conditions permitting conversion of the Notes had been satisfied. In addition, as of June 30, 2007, the market price of the Companys common stock was not greater than the exercise price of the purchased call options or warrants. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements In the normal course of business, the Company enters into contracts and commitments which obligate the Company to make payments in the future. The following table sets forth the Companys significant future obligations by time period. Purchases include commodity based contracts entered into in the normal course of business, which are further described in Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, energy related purchase contracts entered into in the normal course of business, and other purchase obligations related to the Companys normal business activities. Where applicable, information included in the Companys consolidated financial statements and notes is cross referenced in this table. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Payments Due by Period Contractual Note Less than 2 3 4 5 Over Obligations Reference Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years (In millions) Purchases Inventories $ 11,113 $ 10,312 $ 535 $ 159 $ 107 Energy 429 269 152 7 1 Other 217 67 94 43 13 Total purchases 11,759 10,648 781 209 121 Short term debt Note 7 468 468 Long term debt Note 7 4,897 65 92 425 4,315 Estimated interest payments 5,752 290 509 474 4,479 Operating leases Note 12 900 318 241 132 209 Estimated pension and other postretirement plan contributions Note 13 1,045 79 173 195 598 Total $ 24,821 $ 11,868 $ 1,796 $ 1,435 $ 9,722 At June 30, 2007, the Company estimates it will spend approximately $3.0 billion over the next four years to complete approved capital projects and acquisitions. The Company is a limited partner in various private equity funds which invest primarily in emerging markets. At June 30, 2007, the Companys carrying value of these limited partnership investments was $165 million. The Company has future capital commitments related to these partnerships of $138 million and expects the majority of these additional capital commitments, if called for, to be funded by cash flows generated by the partnerships. The Company also has outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds of $339 million at June 30, 2007. In addition, the Company has entered into agreements, primarily debt guarantee agreements related to equity method investees, which could obligate the Company to make future payments. The Companys liability under these agreements arises only if the primary entity fails to perform its contractual obligation. The Company has collateral for a portion of these contingent obligations. At June 30, 2007, these contingent obligations totaled approximately $98 million. Amounts outstanding for the primary entity under these contingent obligations were $51 million at June 30, 2007. Critical Accounting Policies The process of preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the carrying values of the Companys assets and liabilities as well as the recognition of revenues and expenses. These estimates and judgments are based on the Companys historical experience and managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Certain of the Companys accounting policies are considered critical, as these policies are important to the depiction of the Companys financial statements and require significant or complex judgment by management. Management has discussed with the Companys Audit Committee the development, selection, disclosure, and application of these critical accounting policies. Following are the accounting policies management considers critical to the Companys financial statements. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Inventories and Derivatives Certain of the Companys merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, forward fixed price purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and options contracts are valued at estimated market values. These merchandisable agricultural commodities are freely traded, have quoted market prices, and may be sold without significant additional processing. Management estimates market value based on exchange quoted prices, adjusted for differences in local markets. Changes in the market values of these inventories and contracts are recognized in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. If management used different methods or factors to estimate market value, amounts reported as inventories and cost of products sold could differ. Additionally, if market conditions change subsequent to year end, amounts reported in future periods as inventories and cost of products sold could differ. The Company, from time to time, uses derivative contracts to fix the purchase price of anticipated volumes of commodities to be purchased and processed in a future month, to fix the purchase price of the Companys anticipated natural gas requirements for certain production facilities, and to fix the sales price of anticipated volumes of ethanol. These derivative contracts are designated as cash flow hedges. The change in the market value of such derivative contracts has historically been, and is expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. If it is determined that the derivative instruments used are no longer effective at offsetting changes in the price of the hedged item, then the changes in the market value of these exchange traded futures contracts would be recorded in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. Employee Benefit Plans The Company provides substantially all domestic employees and employees at certain international subsidiaries with pension benefits. The Company also provides substantially all domestic salaried employees with postretirement health care and life insurance benefits. In order to measure the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans, management makes several estimates and assumptions, including interest rates used to discount certain liabilities, rates of return on assets set aside to fund these plans, rates of compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and anticipated future health care costs. These estimates and assumptions are based on the Companys historical experience combined with managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Management also uses third party specialists to assist in measuring the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans. If management used different estimates and assumptions regarding these plans, the funded status of the plans could vary significantly, and the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Income Taxes The Company frequently faces challenges from domestic and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company records reserves for probable exposures. Deferred tax assets represent items to be used as tax deductions or credits in future tax returns, and the related tax benefit has already been recognized in the Companys income statement. Realization of certain deferred tax assets reflects the Companys tax planning strategies. Valuation allowances related to these deferred tax assets have been established to the extent the realization of the tax benefit is not probable. Based on managements evaluation of the Companys tax position, it is believed the amounts related to these tax exposures are appropriately accrued. To the extent the Company were to favorably resolve matters for which accruals have been established or be required to pay amounts in excess of the aforementioned reserves, the Companys effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be impacted. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and affiliated corporate joint ventures accounted for on the equity method are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by unpredictable factors such as weather, plantings, government (domestic and foreign) farm programs and policies, changes in population growth, changes in standards of living, and production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned unpredictable factors, therefore, may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and profitability of the Companys fixed asset base in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its factories. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment and technology related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. Assets are abandoned after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of this fixed asset base, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Valuation of Marketable Securities and Investments in Affiliates The Company classifies the majority of its marketable securities as available for sale and carries these securities at fair value. Investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings. For publicly traded securities, the fair value of the Companys investments is readily available based on quoted market prices. For non publicly traded securities, managements assessment of fair value is based on valuation methodologies including discounted cash flows and estimates of sales proceeds. In the event of a decline in fair value of an investment below carrying value, management may be required to determine if the decline in fair value is other than temporary. In evaluating the nature of a decline in the fair value of an investment, management considers the market conditions, trends of earnings, discounted cash flows, trading volumes, and other key measures of the investment as well as the Companys ability and intent to hold the investment. When such a decline in value is deemed to be other than temporary, an impairment loss is recognized in the current period operating results to the extent of the decline. See Notes 3 and 5 to the Companys consolidated financial statements for information regarding the Companys marketable securities and investments in affiliates. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these marketable securities, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) The Company is a limited partner in various private equity funds which invest primarily in emerging markets. The Company accounts for these limited partnerships using the equity method of accounting. Therefore, the Company is recording in the consolidated statement of earnings its proportional share of the limited partnerships net income or loss. The limited partnerships value their investments at fair value. Thus, unrealized gains and losses related to the change in fair value of these investments are recorded in the limited partnerships statements of earnings. The valuation of these investments, as determined by the general partner, can be subjective, and the values may vary significantly. Some of the factors causing the subjectivity and volatility of these valuations include the illiquidity and minority positions of these investments, currency exchange rate fluctuations, less regulated securities exchanges, and the inherent business risks and limitations present in the emerging market countries. The Company records the results of these limited partnerships based on the information provided to the Company by the general partner. Due to the subjectivity and volatility in valuing these investments, the fair value of these investments, and thus the Companys results, could vary significantly over future periods. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in commodities futures prices, marketable equity security prices, market prices of limited partnerships investments, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and price of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to unpredictable factors such as weather, plantings, government (domestic and foreign) farm programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. To reduce price risk caused by market fluctuations, the Company generally follows a policy of using exchange traded futures and options contracts to minimize its net position of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories and forward cash purchase and sales contracts. The Company will also use exchange traded futures and options contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the volatility of the relationship between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contracts defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company from time to time enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) A sensitivity analysis has been prepared to estimate the Companys exposure to market risk of its daily net commodity position. The Companys daily net commodity position consists of inventories, related purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures contracts, including those contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements. The fair value of such daily net commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing each net position at quoted futures prices. Market risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in such prices. Actual results may differ. 2007 2006 Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest long position $ 703 $ 70 $ 510 $ 51 Highest short position 565 57 574 57 Average position long (short) 180 18 (203 ) (20 ) The change in fair value of the average position for 2007 compared to 2006 was principally a result of changes in the daily net commodity position and commodity prices. Marketable Equity Securities Marketable equity securities, which are recorded at fair value, have exposure to price risk. The fair value of marketable equity securities is based on quoted market prices. Risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted market prices. Actual results may differ. 2007 2006 (In millions) Fair value $ 227 $ 640 Market risk 23 64 The decrease in fair value for 2007 compared to 2006 resulted primarily from disposals of securities partially offset by increases in fair market value of certain securities. Limited Partnerships The Company is a limited partner in various private equity funds which invest primarily in emerging markets. The Company accounts for these limited partnerships using the equity method of accounting. Therefore, the Company is recording in the consolidated statement of earnings its proportional share of the limited partnerships net income or loss. The limited partnerships value their investments at fair value. Risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in market prices of the limited partnerships investments. Actual results may differ. 2007 2006 (In millions) Fair value of partnerships investments $ 188 $ 210 Market risk 19 21 The decrease in fair value for 2007 compared to 2006 resulted primarily from returns of capital. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) Currencies In order to reduce the risk of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, except for amounts permanently invested as described below, the Company follows a policy of entering into currency exchange forward contracts to mitigate its foreign currency risk related to transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currencies applicable to each of its various entities. The instruments used are readily marketable exchange traded futures contracts and forward contracts with banks. The changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $5.4 billion at June 30, 2007, and $4.5 billion at June 30, 2006. This increase is due to an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and appreciation of foreign currency exchange rates. The potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $543 million and $454 million for 2007 and 2006, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical .5 % decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2007 2006 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 4,927 $ 4,387 Excess of fair value over carrying value 110 257 Market risk 204 218 The increase in fair value of long term debt in 2007 resulted principally from the Companys issuance of $1.2 billion convertible senior notes partially offset by repayment of $400 million of debentures and other principal payments of long term debt. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Operating profit by segment is as follows: 2006 2005 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing $ 599 $ 345 $ 254 Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 431 271 160 Bioproducts 446 259 187 Total Corn Processing 877 530 347 Agricultural Services 275 262 13 Other Food, Feed, and Industrial 159 263 (104 ) Financial 151 151 Total Other 310 414 (104 ) Total Segment Operating Profit 2,061 1,551 510 Corporate (206 ) (35 ) (171 ) Earnings Before Income Taxes $ 1,855 $ 1,516 $ 339 Oilseeds Processing operating profits increased $254 million to $599 million primarily due to improved market conditions in all geographic regions. European processing results improved principally due to strong demand for biodiesel and abundant rapeseed supplies in Europe. This strong demand for biodiesel in Europe increased European vegetable oil demand and resulted in improved oilseeds processing results. Abundant rapeseed supplies in Europe resulted in lower rapeseed price levels. North American processing results improved principally due to abundant oilseed supplies in the United States and good demand for soybean meal. Vegetable oil values were solid as the markets anticipate new demand from the developing United States biodiesel industry. South American operating results increased primarily due to improved origination activities and a $27 million credit for Brazilian transactional taxes. Operating results in Asia increased due to improved soy crushing margins and improved palm operations. Operating profits include a $14 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets and a $6 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47. Operating profits for 2005 include a charge of $13 million for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Corn Processing operating profits increased $347 million to $877 million primarily due to higher average selling prices, increased sales volumes, and lower net corn costs, partially offset by increased energy costs. Sweeteners and Starches operating profits increased $160 million due primarily to decreased net corn costs and higher average sales prices and sales volumes. Sales volumes and prices have increased primarily due to good demand for sweetener and starch products. These increases were partially offset by increased energy costs. Sweeteners and Starches operating profits include a $5 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47. Bioproducts operating profits increased $187 million primarily due to higher ethanol sales volumes and average selling prices and decreased net corn costs, partially offset by increased energy costs and lower lysine average selling prices. The increases in ethanol sales volumes and average sales prices were principally due to increased demand from gasoline refiners as refiners used ethanol to replace MTBE as a gasoline additive and from increased gasoline prices. Bioproducts operating profits include a $6 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets, a $2 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47, and $6 million of costs related to the closure of a citric acid plant. Bioproducts operating profits for 2005 include a $16 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Agricultural Services operating profits increased $13 million to $275 million as improved results from transportation operations were partially offset by a decline in global grain merchandising and North American origination operating results. North American river transportation operating results increased primarily due to increased barge freight rates created by strong demand for barge capacity. This increase was partially offset by increased fuel costs. The gulf coast hurricanes negatively impacted North American origination and export activities during the first half of 2006. Other operating profits decreased $104 million to $310 million. Other Food, Feed, and Industrial operating results decreased $104 million due primarily to a $51 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets, a $2 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47, and a $9 million charge representing the Companys share of a charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets reported by an unconsolidated affiliate of the Company. In addition, cocoa processing, natural health and nutrition, and formula feed operating results declined from prior year levels. Cocoa processing operating results declined primarily due to increased industry capacity which caused downward pressure on cocoa finished product prices. Formula feed operating results declined due to costs associated with exiting the European animal feed business. Other Food, Feed, and Industrial operating profits include a $17 million gain from the sale of long lived assets. Other Food, Feed, and Industrial operating results for 2005 include a $13 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Other Financial operating profits are comparable to prior year levels as improvements in the Companys captive insurance operations and futures commission merchant business offset lower valuations of the Companys private equity fund investments. Corporate decreased $171 million due primarily to a $102 million decrease in income from the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations, the $114 million realized securities gain in 2005 from the sale of Tate & Lyle PLC shares, the CIP Gain in 2005, and a $22 million charge in 2006 upon the adoption of SFAS 123(R), partially offset by the aforementioned $19 million reversal of Brazilian transactional taxes and a $97 million reduction in unallocated interest expense. The reduction in unallocated interest expense is due principally to higher levels of invested funds and higher interest rates. Income taxes increased due principally to higher pretax earnings. This increase was partially offset by a $36 million reduction in income tax expense related to the recognition of federal and state income tax credits and adjustments resulting from the reconciliation of filed tax returns to the previously estimated tax provision. The Companys effective tax rate for 2006 was 29.3% as compared to 31.1% for 2005. Excluding the effect of the $36 million tax credit, the Companys effective tax rate was 31.2% for 2006 and, after excluding the effect of the CIP Gain, was 32.1% for 2005. No tax was provided on the CIP Gain in 2005, as CIP is a corporate joint venture of the Company and the proceeds from the sale are permanently reinvested. Excluding the effect of the $36 million tax credit in 2006 and the CIP Gain in 2005, the decrease in the Companys effective tax rate is primarily due to changes in the geographic mix of pretax earnings. Liquidity and Capital Resources The Companys objective is to have sufficient liquidity, balance sheet strength, and financial flexibility to fund the operating and capital requirements of a capital intensive agricultural based commodity business. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) At June 30, 2007, the Company continued to show substantial liquidity with working capital of $7.3 billion and a current ratio, defined as current assets divided by current liabilities, of 1.9 to 1. Included in working capital is $875 million of cash, cash equivalents, and short term marketable securities as well as $4.4 billion of readily marketable commodity inventories. Cash generated from operating activities totaled $303 million for the year compared to $1.4 billion last year. This decrease was primarily due to an increase in working capital requirements principally related to increased prices and quantities of agricultural commodity inventories and increased receivables, partially offset by increased cash earnings. Despite increased investment in property, plant, and equipment, cash used in investing activities decreased $714 million for the year to $355 million due primarily to increased sales of marketable securities and proceeds from sales of businesses including the sale of the Companys equity interests in Tyson Foods, Inc., Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc. and Agricore United. Cash used in financing activities was $398 million compared to cash generated by financing activities of $284 million last year. Net long term borrowings increased primarily as a result of the issuance of $1.2 billion of convertible senior notes in February 2007 (described in detail below), compared to $600 million of 30 year debentures issued in September 2005. This increase was partially offset by $283 million of increased payments on long term debt principally related to the Company retiring $400 million of debentures in 2007. Capital resources were strengthened as shown by the increase in the Companys net worth from $9.8 billion to $11.3 billion. The Companys ratio of long term debt to total capital (the sum of the Companys long term debt and shareholders equity) was 30% at June 30, 2007, and 29% at June 30, 2006. This ratio is a measure of the Companys long term liquidity and is an indicator of financial flexibility. The Company currently has $3.9 billion of commercial paper and commercial bank lines available to meet seasonal cash requirements of which $2.6 billion are committed and $1.3 billion are uncommitted. At June 30, 2007, the Company had $468 million of short term debt outstanding. Standard & Poors, Moodys, and Fitch rate the Companys commercial paper as A 1, P 1, and F1, respectively, and rate the Companys long term debt as A, A2, and A+, respectively. In addition to the cash flow generated from operations, the Company has access to equity and debt capital through numerous alternatives from public and private sources in domestic and international markets. In February 2007, the Company issued $1.2 billion principal amount of convertible senior notes due in 2014 (the Notes) in a private placement. The Notes were issued at par and bear interest at a rate of 0.875% per year, payable semiannually. The Notes are convertible based on an initial conversion rate of 22.8343 shares per $1,000 principal amount of Notes (which is equal to an initial conversion price of approximately $43.79 per share). The Notes may be converted, subject to adjustment, only under the following circumstances: 1) during any calendar quarter beginning after March 31, 2007, if the closing price of the Companys common stock for at least 20 trading days in the 30 consecutive trading days ending on the last trading day of the immediately preceding quarter is more than 140% of the applicable conversion price per share, which is $1,000 divided by the then applicable conversion rate, 2) during the five consecutive business day period immediately after any five consecutive trading day period (the note measurement period) in which the average of the trading price per $1,000 principal amount of Notes was equal to or less than 98% of the average of the product of the closing price of the Companys common stock and the conversion rate at each date during the note measurement period, 3) if the Company makes specified distributions to its common stockholders or specified corporate transactions occur, or 4) at any time on or after January 15, 2014, through the business day preceding the maturity date. Upon conversion, a holder would receive an amount in cash equal to the lesser of 1) $1,000 and 2) the conversion value, as defined. If the conversion value exceeds $1,000, the Company will deliver, at the Companys election, cash or common stock or a combination of cash and common stock for the conversion value in excess of $1,000. If the Notes are converted in connection with a change in control, as defined, the Company may be required to provide a make whole premium in the form of an increase in the conversion rate, subject to a stated maximum amount. In addition, in the event of a change in control, the holders may require the Company to purchase all or a portion of their Notes at a purchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Concurrent with the issuance of the Notes, the Company purchased call options in private transactions at a cost of $299 million. The purchased call options allow the Company to receive shares of its common stock and or cash from the counterparties equal to the amounts of common stock and or cash related to the excess of the current market price of the Companys common stock over the exercise price of the purchased call options. In addition, the Company sold warrants in private transactions to acquire, subject to customary anti dilution adjustments, 26.3 million shares of its common stock at an exercise price of $62.56 per share and received proceeds of $170 million. If the average price of the Companys common stock during a defined period ending on or about the respective settlement dates exceeds the exercise price of the warrants, the warrants will be settled, at the Companys option, in cash or shares of common stock. The purchased call options and warrants are intended to reduce the potential dilution upon future conversions of the Notes by effectively increasing the initial conversion price to $62.56 per share. Upon closing of the sale of the Notes, $370 million of the net proceeds from the Note issuance and the proceeds from the warrant transactions were used to repurchase 10.3 million shares of the Companys common stock under the Companys stock repurchase program. As of June 30, 2007, none of the conditions permitting conversion of the Notes had been satisfied. In addition, as of June 30, 2007, the market price of the Companys common stock was not greater than the exercise price of the purchased call options or warrants. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements In the normal course of business, the Company enters into contracts and commitments which obligate the Company to make payments in the future. The following table sets forth the Companys significant future obligations by time period. Purchases include commodity based contracts entered into in the normal course of business, which are further described in Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, energy related purchase contracts entered into in the normal course of business, and other purchase obligations related to the Companys normal business activities. Where applicable, information included in the Companys consolidated financial statements and notes is cross referenced in this table. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Payments Due by Period Contractual Note Less than 2 3 4 5 Over Obligations Reference Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years (In millions) Purchases Inventories $ 11,113 $ 10,312 $ 535 $ 159 $ 107 Energy 429 269 152 7 1 Other 217 67 94 43 13 Total purchases 11,759 10,648 781 209 121 Short term debt Note 7 468 468 Long term debt Note 7 4,897 65 92 425 4,315 Estimated interest payments 5,752 290 509 474 4,479 Operating leases Note 12 900 318 241 132 209 Estimated pension and other postretirement plan contributions Note 13 1,045 79 173 195 598 Total $ 24,821 $ 11,868 $ 1,796 $ 1,435 $ 9,722 At June 30, 2007, the Company estimates it will spend approximately $3.0 billion over the next four years to complete approved capital projects and acquisitions. The Company is a limited partner in various private equity funds which invest primarily in emerging markets. At June 30, 2007, the Companys carrying value of these limited partnership investments was $165 million. The Company has future capital commitments related to these partnerships of $138 million and expects the majority of these additional capital commitments, if called for, to be funded by cash flows generated by the partnerships. The Company also has outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds of $339 million at June 30, 2007. In addition, the Company has entered into agreements, primarily debt guarantee agreements related to equity method investees, which could obligate the Company to make future payments. The Companys liability under these agreements arises only if the primary entity fails to perform its contractual obligation. The Company has collateral for a portion of these contingent obligations. At June 30, 2007, these contingent obligations totaled approximately $98 million. Amounts outstanding for the primary entity under these contingent obligations were $51 million at June 30, 2007. Critical Accounting Policies The process of preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the carrying values of the Companys assets and liabilities as well as the recognition of revenues and expenses. These estimates and judgments are based on the Companys historical experience and managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Certain of the Companys accounting policies are considered critical, as these policies are important to the depiction of the Companys financial statements and require significant or complex judgment by management. Management has discussed with the Companys Audit Committee the development, selection, disclosure, and application of these critical accounting policies. Following are the accounting policies management considers critical to the Companys financial statements. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Inventories and Derivatives Certain of the Companys merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, forward fixed price purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and options contracts are valued at estimated market values. These merchandisable agricultural commodities are freely traded, have quoted market prices, and may be sold without significant additional processing. Management estimates market value based on exchange quoted prices, adjusted for differences in local markets. Changes in the market values of these inventories and contracts are recognized in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. If management used different methods or factors to estimate market value, amounts reported as inventories and cost of products sold could differ. Additionally, if market conditions change subsequent to year end, amounts reported in future periods as inventories and cost of products sold could differ. The Company, from time to time, uses derivative contracts to fix the purchase price of anticipated volumes of commodities to be purchased and processed in a future month, to fix the purchase price of the Companys anticipated natural gas requirements for certain production facilities, and to fix the sales price of anticipated volumes of ethanol. These derivative contracts are designated as cash flow hedges. The change in the market value of such derivative contracts has historically been, and is expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. If it is determined that the derivative instruments used are no longer effective at offsetting changes in the price of the hedged item, then the changes in the market value of these exchange traded futures contracts would be recorded in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. Employee Benefit Plans The Company provides substantially all domestic employees and employees at certain international subsidiaries with pension benefits. The Company also provides substantially all domestic salaried employees with postretirement health care and life insurance benefits. In order to measure the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans, management makes several estimates and assumptions, including interest rates used to discount certain liabilities, rates of return on assets set aside to fund these plans, rates of compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and anticipated future health care costs. These estimates and assumptions are based on the Companys historical experience combined with managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Management also uses third party specialists to assist in measuring the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans. If management used different estimates and assumptions regarding these plans, the funded status of the plans could vary significantly, and the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Income Taxes The Company frequently faces challenges from domestic and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company records reserves for probable exposures. Deferred tax assets represent items to be used as tax deductions or credits in future tax returns, and the related tax benefit has already been recognized in the Companys income statement. Realization of certain deferred tax assets reflects the Companys tax planning strategies. Valuation allowances related to these deferred tax assets have been established to the extent the realization of the tax benefit is not probable. Based on managements evaluation of the Companys tax position, it is believed the amounts related to these tax exposures are appropriately accrued. To the extent the Company were to favorably resolve matters for which accruals have been established or be required to pay amounts in excess of the aforementioned reserves, the Companys effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be impacted. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and affiliated corporate joint ventures accounted for on the equity method are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by unpredictable factors such as weather, plantings, government (domestic and foreign) farm programs and policies, changes in population growth, changes in standards of living, and production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned unpredictable factors, therefore, may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and profitability of the Companys fixed asset base in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its factories. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment and technology related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. Assets are abandoned after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of this fixed asset base, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Valuation of Marketable Securities and Investments in Affiliates The Company classifies the majority of its marketable securities as available for sale and carries these securities at fair value. Investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings. For publicly traded securities, the fair value of the Companys investments is readily available based on quoted market prices. For non publicly traded securities, managements assessment of fair value is based on valuation methodologies including discounted cash flows and estimates of sales proceeds. In the event of a decline in fair value of an investment below carrying value, management may be required to determine if the decline in fair value is other than temporary. In evaluating the nature of a decline in the fair value of an investment, management considers the market conditions, trends of earnings, discounted cash flows, trading volumes, and other key measures of the investment as well as the Companys ability and intent to hold the investment. When such a decline in value is deemed to be other than temporary, an impairment loss is recognized in the current period operating results to the extent of the decline. See Notes 3 and 5 to the Companys consolidated financial statements for information regarding the Companys marketable securities and investments in affiliates. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these marketable securities, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) The Company is a limited partner in various private equity funds which invest primarily in emerging markets. The Company accounts for these limited partnerships using the equity method of accounting. Therefore, the Company is recording in the consolidated statement of earnings its proportional share of the limited partnerships net income or loss. The limited partnerships value their investments at fair value. Thus, unrealized gains and losses related to the change in fair value of these investments are recorded in the limited partnerships statements of earnings. The valuation of these investments, as determined by the general partner, can be subjective, and the values may vary significantly. Some of the factors causing the subjectivity and volatility of these valuations include the illiquidity and minority positions of these investments, currency exchange rate fluctuations, less regulated securities exchanges, and the inherent business risks and limitations present in the emerging market countries. The Company records the results of these limited partnerships based on the information provided to the Company by the general partner. Due to the subjectivity and volatility in valuing these investments, the fair value of these investments, and thus the Companys results, could vary significantly over future periods. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in commodities futures prices, marketable equity security prices, market prices of limited partnerships investments, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and price of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to unpredictable factors such as weather, plantings, government (domestic and foreign) farm programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. To reduce price risk caused by market fluctuations, the Company generally follows a policy of using exchange traded futures and options contracts to minimize its net position of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories and forward cash purchase and sales contracts. The Company will also use exchange traded futures and options contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the volatility of the relationship between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contracts defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company from time to time enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) A sensitivity analysis has been prepared to estimate the Companys exposure to market risk of its daily net commodity position. The Companys daily net commodity position consists of inventories, related purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures contracts, including those contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements. The fair value of such daily net commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing each net position at quoted futures prices. Market risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in such prices. Actual results may differ. 2007 2006 Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest long position $ 703 $ 70 $ 510 $ 51 Highest short position 565 57 574 57 Average position long (short) 180 18 (203 ) (20 ) The change in fair value of the average position for 2007 compared to 2006 was principally a result of changes in the daily net commodity position and commodity prices. Marketable Equity Securities Marketable equity securities, which are recorded at fair value, have exposure to price risk. The fair value of marketable equity securities is based on quoted market prices. Risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted market prices. Actual results may differ. 2007 2006 (In millions) Fair value $ 227 $ 640 Market risk 23 64 The decrease in fair value for 2007 compared to 2006 resulted primarily from disposals of securities partially offset by increases in fair market value of certain securities. Limited Partnerships The Company is a limited partner in various private equity funds which invest primarily in emerging markets. The Company accounts for these limited partnerships using the equity method of accounting. Therefore, the Company is recording in the consolidated statement of earnings its proportional share of the limited partnerships net income or loss. The limited partnerships value their investments at fair value. Risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in market prices of the limited partnerships investments. Actual results may differ. 2007 2006 (In millions) Fair value of partnerships investments $ 188 $ 210 Market risk 19 21 The decrease in fair value for 2007 compared to 2006 resulted primarily from returns of capital. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) Currencies In order to reduce the risk of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, except for amounts permanently invested as described below, the Company follows a policy of entering into currency exchange forward contracts to mitigate its foreign currency risk related to transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currencies applicable to each of its various entities. The instruments used are readily marketable exchange traded futures contracts and forward contracts with banks. The changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $5.4 billion at June 30, 2007, and $4.5 billion at June 30, 2006. This increase is due to an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and appreciation of foreign currency exchange rates. The potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $543 million and $454 million for 2007 and 2006, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical .5 % decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2007 2006 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 4,927 $ 4,387 Excess of fair value over carrying value 110 257 Market risk 204 218 The increase in fair value of long term debt in 2007 resulted principally from the Companys issuance of $1.2 billion convertible senior notes partially offset by repayment of $400 million of debentures and other principal payments of long term debt. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Agricultural Services operating profits increased $13 million to $275 million as improved results from transportation operations were partially offset by a decline in global grain merchandising and North American origination operating results. North American river transportation operating results increased primarily due to increased barge freight rates created by strong demand for barge capacity. This increase was partially offset by increased fuel costs. The gulf coast hurricanes negatively impacted North American origination and export activities during the first half of 2006. Other operating profits decreased $104 million to $310 million. Other Food, Feed, and Industrial operating results decreased $104 million due primarily to a $51 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets, a $2 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47, and a $9 million charge representing the Companys share of a charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets reported by an unconsolidated affiliate of the Company. In addition, cocoa processing, natural health and nutrition, and formula feed operating results declined from prior year levels. Cocoa processing operating results declined primarily due to increased industry capacity which caused downward pressure on cocoa finished product prices. Formula feed operating results declined due to costs associated with exiting the European animal feed business. Other Food, Feed, and Industrial operating profits include a $17 million gain from the sale of long lived assets. Other Food, Feed, and Industrial operating results for 2005 include a $13 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Other Financial operating profits are comparable to prior year levels as improvements in the Companys captive insurance operations and futures commission merchant business offset lower valuations of the Companys private equity fund investments. Corporate decreased $171 million due primarily to a $102 million decrease in income from the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations, the $114 million realized securities gain in 2005 from the sale of Tate & Lyle PLC shares, the CIP Gain in 2005, and a $22 million charge in 2006 upon the adoption of SFAS 123(R), partially offset by the aforementioned $19 million reversal of Brazilian transactional taxes and a $97 million reduction in unallocated interest expense. The reduction in unallocated interest expense is due principally to higher levels of invested funds and higher interest rates. Income taxes increased due principally to higher pretax earnings. This increase was partially offset by a $36 million reduction in income tax expense related to the recognition of federal and state income tax credits and adjustments resulting from the reconciliation of filed tax returns to the previously estimated tax provision. The Companys effective tax rate for 2006 was 29.3% as compared to 31.1% for 2005. Excluding the effect of the $36 million tax credit, the Companys effective tax rate was 31.2% for 2006 and, after excluding the effect of the CIP Gain, was 32.1% for 2005. No tax was provided on the CIP Gain in 2005, as CIP is a corporate joint venture of the Company and the proceeds from the sale are permanently reinvested. Excluding the effect of the $36 million tax credit in 2006 and the CIP Gain in 2005, the decrease in the Companys effective tax rate is primarily due to changes in the geographic mix of pretax earnings. Liquidity and Capital Resources The Companys objective is to have sufficient liquidity, balance sheet strength, and financial flexibility to fund the operating and capital requirements of a capital intensive agricultural based commodity business. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) At June 30, 2007, the Company continued to show substantial liquidity with working capital of $7.3 billion and a current ratio, defined as current assets divided by current liabilities, of 1.9 to 1. Included in working capital is $875 million of cash, cash equivalents, and short term marketable securities as well as $4.4 billion of readily marketable commodity inventories. Cash generated from operating activities totaled $303 million for the year compared to $1.4 billion last year. This decrease was primarily due to an increase in working capital requirements principally related to increased prices and quantities of agricultural commodity inventories and increased receivables, partially offset by increased cash earnings. Despite increased investment in property, plant, and equipment, cash used in investing activities decreased $714 million for the year to $355 million due primarily to increased sales of marketable securities and proceeds from sales of businesses including the sale of the Companys equity interests in Tyson Foods, Inc., Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc. and Agricore United. Cash used in financing activities was $398 million compared to cash generated by financing activities of $284 million last year. Net long term borrowings increased primarily as a result of the issuance of $1.2 billion of convertible senior notes in February 2007 (described in detail below), compared to $600 million of 30 year debentures issued in September 2005. This increase was partially offset by $283 million of increased payments on long term debt principally related to the Company retiring $400 million of debentures in 2007. Capital resources were strengthened as shown by the increase in the Companys net worth from $9.8 billion to $11.3 billion. The Companys ratio of long term debt to total capital (the sum of the Companys long term debt and shareholders equity) was 30% at June 30, 2007, and 29% at June 30, 2006. This ratio is a measure of the Companys long term liquidity and is an indicator of financial flexibility. The Company currently has $3.9 billion of commercial paper and commercial bank lines available to meet seasonal cash requirements of which $2.6 billion are committed and $1.3 billion are uncommitted. At June 30, 2007, the Company had $468 million of short term debt outstanding. Standard & Poors, Moodys, and Fitch rate the Companys commercial paper as A 1, P 1, and F1, respectively, and rate the Companys long term debt as A, A2, and A+, respectively. In addition to the cash flow generated from operations, the Company has access to equity and debt capital through numerous alternatives from public and private sources in domestic and international markets. In February 2007, the Company issued $1.2 billion principal amount of convertible senior notes due in 2014 (the Notes) in a private placement. The Notes were issued at par and bear interest at a rate of 0.875% per year, payable semiannually. The Notes are convertible based on an initial conversion rate of 22.8343 shares per $1,000 principal amount of Notes (which is equal to an initial conversion price of approximately $43.79 per share). The Notes may be converted, subject to adjustment, only under the following circumstances: 1) during any calendar quarter beginning after March 31, 2007, if the closing price of the Companys common stock for at least 20 trading days in the 30 consecutive trading days ending on the last trading day of the immediately preceding quarter is more than 140% of the applicable conversion price per share, which is $1,000 divided by the then applicable conversion rate, 2) during the five consecutive business day period immediately after any five consecutive trading day period (the note measurement period) in which the average of the trading price per $1,000 principal amount of Notes was equal to or less than 98% of the average of the product of the closing price of the Companys common stock and the conversion rate at each date during the note measurement period, 3) if the Company makes specified distributions to its common stockholders or specified corporate transactions occur, or 4) at any time on or after January 15, 2014, through the business day preceding the maturity date. Upon conversion, a holder would receive an amount in cash equal to the lesser of 1) $1,000 and 2) the conversion value, as defined. If the conversion value exceeds $1,000, the Company will deliver, at the Companys election, cash or common stock or a combination of cash and common stock for the conversion value in excess of $1,000. If the Notes are converted in connection with a change in control, as defined, the Company may be required to provide a make whole premium in the form of an increase in the conversion rate, subject to a stated maximum amount. In addition, in the event of a change in control, the holders may require the Company to purchase all or a portion of their Notes at a purchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Concurrent with the issuance of the Notes, the Company purchased call options in private transactions at a cost of $299 million. The purchased call options allow the Company to receive shares of its common stock and or cash from the counterparties equal to the amounts of common stock and or cash related to the excess of the current market price of the Companys common stock over the exercise price of the purchased call options. In addition, the Company sold warrants in private transactions to acquire, subject to customary anti dilution adjustments, 26.3 million shares of its common stock at an exercise price of $62.56 per share and received proceeds of $170 million. If the average price of the Companys common stock during a defined period ending on or about the respective settlement dates exceeds the exercise price of the warrants, the warrants will be settled, at the Companys option, in cash or shares of common stock. The purchased call options and warrants are intended to reduce the potential dilution upon future conversions of the Notes by effectively increasing the initial conversion price to $62.56 per share. Upon closing of the sale of the Notes, $370 million of the net proceeds from the Note issuance and the proceeds from the warrant transactions were used to repurchase 10.3 million shares of the Companys common stock under the Companys stock repurchase program. As of June 30, 2007, none of the conditions permitting conversion of the Notes had been satisfied. In addition, as of June 30, 2007, the market price of the Companys common stock was not greater than the exercise price of the purchased call options or warrants. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements In the normal course of business, the Company enters into contracts and commitments which obligate the Company to make payments in the future. The following table sets forth the Companys significant future obligations by time period. Purchases include commodity based contracts entered into in the normal course of business, which are further described in Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, energy related purchase contracts entered into in the normal course of business, and other purchase obligations related to the Companys normal business activities. Where applicable, information included in the Companys consolidated financial statements and notes is cross referenced in this table. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Payments Due by Period Contractual Note Less than 2 3 4 5 Over Obligations Reference Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years (In millions) Purchases Inventories $ 11,113 $ 10,312 $ 535 $ 159 $ 107 Energy 429 269 152 7 1 Other 217 67 94 43 13 Total purchases 11,759 10,648 781 209 121 Short term debt Note 7 468 468 Long term debt Note 7 4,897 65 92 425 4,315 Estimated interest payments 5,752 290 509 474 4,479 Operating leases Note 12 900 318 241 132 209 Estimated pension and other postretirement plan contributions Note 13 1,045 79 173 195 598 Total $ 24,821 $ 11,868 $ 1,796 $ 1,435 $ 9,722 At June 30, 2007, the Company estimates it will spend approximately $3.0 billion over the next four years to complete approved capital projects and acquisitions. The Company is a limited partner in various private equity funds which invest primarily in emerging markets. At June 30, 2007, the Companys carrying value of these limited partnership investments was $165 million. The Company has future capital commitments related to these partnerships of $138 million and expects the majority of these additional capital commitments, if called for, to be funded by cash flows generated by the partnerships. The Company also has outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds of $339 million at June 30, 2007. In addition, the Company has entered into agreements, primarily debt guarantee agreements related to equity method investees, which could obligate the Company to make future payments. The Companys liability under these agreements arises only if the primary entity fails to perform its contractual obligation. The Company has collateral for a portion of these contingent obligations. At June 30, 2007, these contingent obligations totaled approximately $98 million. Amounts outstanding for the primary entity under these contingent obligations were $51 million at June 30, 2007. Critical Accounting Policies The process of preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the carrying values of the Companys assets and liabilities as well as the recognition of revenues and expenses. These estimates and judgments are based on the Companys historical experience and managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Certain of the Companys accounting policies are considered critical, as these policies are important to the depiction of the Companys financial statements and require significant or complex judgment by management. Management has discussed with the Companys Audit Committee the development, selection, disclosure, and application of these critical accounting policies. Following are the accounting policies management considers critical to the Companys financial statements. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Inventories and Derivatives Certain of the Companys merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, forward fixed price purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and options contracts are valued at estimated market values. These merchandisable agricultural commodities are freely traded, have quoted market prices, and may be sold without significant additional processing. Management estimates market value based on exchange quoted prices, adjusted for differences in local markets. Changes in the market values of these inventories and contracts are recognized in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. If management used different methods or factors to estimate market value, amounts reported as inventories and cost of products sold could differ. Additionally, if market conditions change subsequent to year end, amounts reported in future periods as inventories and cost of products sold could differ. The Company, from time to time, uses derivative contracts to fix the purchase price of anticipated volumes of commodities to be purchased and processed in a future month, to fix the purchase price of the Companys anticipated natural gas requirements for certain production facilities, and to fix the sales price of anticipated volumes of ethanol. These derivative contracts are designated as cash flow hedges. The change in the market value of such derivative contracts has historically been, and is expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. If it is determined that the derivative instruments used are no longer effective at offsetting changes in the price of the hedged item, then the changes in the market value of these exchange traded futures contracts would be recorded in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. Employee Benefit Plans The Company provides substantially all domestic employees and employees at certain international subsidiaries with pension benefits. The Company also provides substantially all domestic salaried employees with postretirement health care and life insurance benefits. In order to measure the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans, management makes several estimates and assumptions, including interest rates used to discount certain liabilities, rates of return on assets set aside to fund these plans, rates of compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and anticipated future health care costs. These estimates and assumptions are based on the Companys historical experience combined with managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Management also uses third party specialists to assist in measuring the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans. If management used different estimates and assumptions regarding these plans, the funded status of the plans could vary significantly, and the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Income Taxes The Company frequently faces challenges from domestic and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company records reserves for probable exposures. Deferred tax assets represent items to be used as tax deductions or credits in future tax returns, and the related tax benefit has already been recognized in the Companys income statement. Realization of certain deferred tax assets reflects the Companys tax planning strategies. Valuation allowances related to these deferred tax assets have been established to the extent the realization of the tax benefit is not probable. Based on managements evaluation of the Companys tax position, it is believed the amounts related to these tax exposures are appropriately accrued. To the extent the Company were to favorably resolve matters for which accruals have been established or be required to pay amounts in excess of the aforementioned reserves, the Companys effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be impacted. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and affiliated corporate joint ventures accounted for on the equity method are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by unpredictable factors such as weather, plantings, government (domestic and foreign) farm programs and policies, changes in population growth, changes in standards of living, and production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned unpredictable factors, therefore, may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and profitability of the Companys fixed asset base in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its factories. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment and technology related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. Assets are abandoned after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of this fixed asset base, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Valuation of Marketable Securities and Investments in Affiliates The Company classifies the majority of its marketable securities as available for sale and carries these securities at fair value. Investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings. For publicly traded securities, the fair value of the Companys investments is readily available based on quoted market prices. For non publicly traded securities, managements assessment of fair value is based on valuation methodologies including discounted cash flows and estimates of sales proceeds. In the event of a decline in fair value of an investment below carrying value, management may be required to determine if the decline in fair value is other than temporary. In evaluating the nature of a decline in the fair value of an investment, management considers the market conditions, trends of earnings, discounted cash flows, trading volumes, and other key measures of the investment as well as the Companys ability and intent to hold the investment. When such a decline in value is deemed to be other than temporary, an impairment loss is recognized in the current period operating results to the extent of the decline. See Notes 3 and 5 to the Companys consolidated financial statements for information regarding the Companys marketable securities and investments in affiliates. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these marketable securities, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) The Company is a limited partner in various private equity funds which invest primarily in emerging markets. The Company accounts for these limited partnerships using the equity method of accounting. Therefore, the Company is recording in the consolidated statement of earnings its proportional share of the limited partnerships net income or loss. The limited partnerships value their investments at fair value. Thus, unrealized gains and losses related to the change in fair value of these investments are recorded in the limited partnerships statements of earnings. The valuation of these investments, as determined by the general partner, can be subjective, and the values may vary significantly. Some of the factors causing the subjectivity and volatility of these valuations include the illiquidity and minority positions of these investments, currency exchange rate fluctuations, less regulated securities exchanges, and the inherent business risks and limitations present in the emerging market countries. The Company records the results of these limited partnerships based on the information provided to the Company by the general partner. Due to the subjectivity and volatility in valuing these investments, the fair value of these investments, and thus the Companys results, could vary significantly over future periods. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in commodities futures prices, marketable equity security prices, market prices of limited partnerships investments, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and price of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to unpredictable factors such as weather, plantings, government (domestic and foreign) farm programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. To reduce price risk caused by market fluctuations, the Company generally follows a policy of using exchange traded futures and options contracts to minimize its net position of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories and forward cash purchase and sales contracts. The Company will also use exchange traded futures and options contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the volatility of the relationship between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contracts defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company from time to time enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) A sensitivity analysis has been prepared to estimate the Companys exposure to market risk of its daily net commodity position. The Companys daily net commodity position consists of inventories, related purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures contracts, including those contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements. The fair value of such daily net commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing each net position at quoted futures prices. Market risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in such prices. Actual results may differ. 2007 2006 Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest long position $ 703 $ 70 $ 510 $ 51 Highest short position 565 57 574 57 Average position long (short) 180 18 (203 ) (20 ) The change in fair value of the average position for 2007 compared to 2006 was principally a result of changes in the daily net commodity position and commodity prices. Marketable Equity Securities Marketable equity securities, which are recorded at fair value, have exposure to price risk. The fair value of marketable equity securities is based on quoted market prices. Risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted market prices. Actual results may differ. 2007 2006 (In millions) Fair value $ 227 $ 640 Market risk 23 64 The decrease in fair value for 2007 compared to 2006 resulted primarily from disposals of securities partially offset by increases in fair market value of certain securities. Limited Partnerships The Company is a limited partner in various private equity funds which invest primarily in emerging markets. The Company accounts for these limited partnerships using the equity method of accounting. Therefore, the Company is recording in the consolidated statement of earnings its proportional share of the limited partnerships net income or loss. The limited partnerships value their investments at fair value. Risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in market prices of the limited partnerships investments. Actual results may differ. 2007 2006 (In millions) Fair value of partnerships investments $ 188 $ 210 Market risk 19 21 The decrease in fair value for 2007 compared to 2006 resulted primarily from returns of capital. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) Currencies In order to reduce the risk of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, except for amounts permanently invested as described below, the Company follows a policy of entering into currency exchange forward contracts to mitigate its foreign currency risk related to transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currencies applicable to each of its various entities. The instruments used are readily marketable exchange traded futures contracts and forward contracts with banks. The changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $5.4 billion at June 30, 2007, and $4.5 billion at June 30, 2006. This increase is due to an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and appreciation of foreign currency exchange rates. The potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $543 million and $454 million for 2007 and 2006, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical .5 % decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2007 2006 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 4,927 $ 4,387 Excess of fair value over carrying value 110 257 Market risk 204 218 The increase in fair value of long term debt in 2007 resulted principally from the Companys issuance of $1.2 billion convertible senior notes partially offset by repayment of $400 million of debentures and other principal payments of long term debt. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) At June 30, 2007, the Company continued to show substantial liquidity with working capital of $7.3 billion and a current ratio, defined as current assets divided by current liabilities, of 1.9 to 1. Included in working capital is $875 million of cash, cash equivalents, and short term marketable securities as well as $4.4 billion of readily marketable commodity inventories. Cash generated from operating activities totaled $303 million for the year compared to $1.4 billion last year. This decrease was primarily due to an increase in working capital requirements principally related to increased prices and quantities of agricultural commodity inventories and increased receivables, partially offset by increased cash earnings. Despite increased investment in property, plant, and equipment, cash used in investing activities decreased $714 million for the year to $355 million due primarily to increased sales of marketable securities and proceeds from sales of businesses including the sale of the Companys equity interests in Tyson Foods, Inc., Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc. and Agricore United. Cash used in financing activities was $398 million compared to cash generated by financing activities of $284 million last year. Net long term borrowings increased primarily as a result of the issuance of $1.2 billion of convertible senior notes in February 2007 (described in detail below), compared to $600 million of 30 year debentures issued in September 2005. This increase was partially offset by $283 million of increased payments on long term debt principally related to the Company retiring $400 million of debentures in 2007. Capital resources were strengthened as shown by the increase in the Companys net worth from $9.8 billion to $11.3 billion. The Companys ratio of long term debt to total capital (the sum of the Companys long term debt and shareholders equity) was 30% at June 30, 2007, and 29% at June 30, 2006. This ratio is a measure of the Companys long term liquidity and is an indicator of financial flexibility. The Company currently has $3.9 billion of commercial paper and commercial bank lines available to meet seasonal cash requirements of which $2.6 billion are committed and $1.3 billion are uncommitted. At June 30, 2007, the Company had $468 million of short term debt outstanding. Standard & Poors, Moodys, and Fitch rate the Companys commercial paper as A 1, P 1, and F1, respectively, and rate the Companys long term debt as A, A2, and A+, respectively. In addition to the cash flow generated from operations, the Company has access to equity and debt capital through numerous alternatives from public and private sources in domestic and international markets. In February 2007, the Company issued $1.2 billion principal amount of convertible senior notes due in 2014 (the Notes) in a private placement. The Notes were issued at par and bear interest at a rate of 0.875% per year, payable semiannually. The Notes are convertible based on an initial conversion rate of 22.8343 shares per $1,000 principal amount of Notes (which is equal to an initial conversion price of approximately $43.79 per share). The Notes may be converted, subject to adjustment, only under the following circumstances: 1) during any calendar quarter beginning after March 31, 2007, if the closing price of the Companys common stock for at least 20 trading days in the 30 consecutive trading days ending on the last trading day of the immediately preceding quarter is more than 140% of the applicable conversion price per share, which is $1,000 divided by the then applicable conversion rate, 2) during the five consecutive business day period immediately after any five consecutive trading day period (the note measurement period) in which the average of the trading price per $1,000 principal amount of Notes was equal to or less than 98% of the average of the product of the closing price of the Companys common stock and the conversion rate at each date during the note measurement period, 3) if the Company makes specified distributions to its common stockholders or specified corporate transactions occur, or 4) at any time on or after January 15, 2014, through the business day preceding the maturity date. Upon conversion, a holder would receive an amount in cash equal to the lesser of 1) $1,000 and 2) the conversion value, as defined. If the conversion value exceeds $1,000, the Company will deliver, at the Companys election, cash or common stock or a combination of cash and common stock for the conversion value in excess of $1,000. If the Notes are converted in connection with a change in control, as defined, the Company may be required to provide a make whole premium in the form of an increase in the conversion rate, subject to a stated maximum amount. In addition, in the event of a change in control, the holders may require the Company to purchase all or a portion of their Notes at a purchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Concurrent with the issuance of the Notes, the Company purchased call options in private transactions at a cost of $299 million. The purchased call options allow the Company to receive shares of its common stock and or cash from the counterparties equal to the amounts of common stock and or cash related to the excess of the current market price of the Companys common stock over the exercise price of the purchased call options. In addition, the Company sold warrants in private transactions to acquire, subject to customary anti dilution adjustments, 26.3 million shares of its common stock at an exercise price of $62.56 per share and received proceeds of $170 million. If the average price of the Companys common stock during a defined period ending on or about the respective settlement dates exceeds the exercise price of the warrants, the warrants will be settled, at the Companys option, in cash or shares of common stock. The purchased call options and warrants are intended to reduce the potential dilution upon future conversions of the Notes by effectively increasing the initial conversion price to $62.56 per share. Upon closing of the sale of the Notes, $370 million of the net proceeds from the Note issuance and the proceeds from the warrant transactions were used to repurchase 10.3 million shares of the Companys common stock under the Companys stock repurchase program. As of June 30, 2007, none of the conditions permitting conversion of the Notes had been satisfied. In addition, as of June 30, 2007, the market price of the Companys common stock was not greater than the exercise price of the purchased call options or warrants. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements In the normal course of business, the Company enters into contracts and commitments which obligate the Company to make payments in the future. The following table sets forth the Companys significant future obligations by time period. Purchases include commodity based contracts entered into in the normal course of business, which are further described in Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, energy related purchase contracts entered into in the normal course of business, and other purchase obligations related to the Companys normal business activities. Where applicable, information included in the Companys consolidated financial statements and notes is cross referenced in this table. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Payments Due by Period Contractual Note Less than 2 3 4 5 Over Obligations Reference Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years (In millions) Purchases Inventories $ 11,113 $ 10,312 $ 535 $ 159 $ 107 Energy 429 269 152 7 1 Other 217 67 94 43 13 Total purchases 11,759 10,648 781 209 121 Short term debt Note 7 468 468 Long term debt Note 7 4,897 65 92 425 4,315 Estimated interest payments 5,752 290 509 474 4,479 Operating leases Note 12 900 318 241 132 209 Estimated pension and other postretirement plan contributions Note 13 1,045 79 173 195 598 Total $ 24,821 $ 11,868 $ 1,796 $ 1,435 $ 9,722 At June 30, 2007, the Company estimates it will spend approximately $3.0 billion over the next four years to complete approved capital projects and acquisitions. The Company is a limited partner in various private equity funds which invest primarily in emerging markets. At June 30, 2007, the Companys carrying value of these limited partnership investments was $165 million. The Company has future capital commitments related to these partnerships of $138 million and expects the majority of these additional capital commitments, if called for, to be funded by cash flows generated by the partnerships. The Company also has outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds of $339 million at June 30, 2007. In addition, the Company has entered into agreements, primarily debt guarantee agreements related to equity method investees, which could obligate the Company to make future payments. The Companys liability under these agreements arises only if the primary entity fails to perform its contractual obligation. The Company has collateral for a portion of these contingent obligations. At June 30, 2007, these contingent obligations totaled approximately $98 million. Amounts outstanding for the primary entity under these contingent obligations were $51 million at June 30, 2007. Critical Accounting Policies The process of preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the carrying values of the Companys assets and liabilities as well as the recognition of revenues and expenses. These estimates and judgments are based on the Companys historical experience and managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Certain of the Companys accounting policies are considered critical, as these policies are important to the depiction of the Companys financial statements and require significant or complex judgment by management. Management has discussed with the Companys Audit Committee the development, selection, disclosure, and application of these critical accounting policies. Following are the accounting policies management considers critical to the Companys financial statements. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Inventories and Derivatives Certain of the Companys merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, forward fixed price purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and options contracts are valued at estimated market values. These merchandisable agricultural commodities are freely traded, have quoted market prices, and may be sold without significant additional processing. Management estimates market value based on exchange quoted prices, adjusted for differences in local markets. Changes in the market values of these inventories and contracts are recognized in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. If management used different methods or factors to estimate market value, amounts reported as inventories and cost of products sold could differ. Additionally, if market conditions change subsequent to year end, amounts reported in future periods as inventories and cost of products sold could differ. The Company, from time to time, uses derivative contracts to fix the purchase price of anticipated volumes of commodities to be purchased and processed in a future month, to fix the purchase price of the Companys anticipated natural gas requirements for certain production facilities, and to fix the sales price of anticipated volumes of ethanol. These derivative contracts are designated as cash flow hedges. The change in the market value of such derivative contracts has historically been, and is expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. If it is determined that the derivative instruments used are no longer effective at offsetting changes in the price of the hedged item, then the changes in the market value of these exchange traded futures contracts would be recorded in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. Employee Benefit Plans The Company provides substantially all domestic employees and employees at certain international subsidiaries with pension benefits. The Company also provides substantially all domestic salaried employees with postretirement health care and life insurance benefits. In order to measure the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans, management makes several estimates and assumptions, including interest rates used to discount certain liabilities, rates of return on assets set aside to fund these plans, rates of compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and anticipated future health care costs. These estimates and assumptions are based on the Companys historical experience combined with managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Management also uses third party specialists to assist in measuring the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans. If management used different estimates and assumptions regarding these plans, the funded status of the plans could vary significantly, and the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Income Taxes The Company frequently faces challenges from domestic and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company records reserves for probable exposures. Deferred tax assets represent items to be used as tax deductions or credits in future tax returns, and the related tax benefit has already been recognized in the Companys income statement. Realization of certain deferred tax assets reflects the Companys tax planning strategies. Valuation allowances related to these deferred tax assets have been established to the extent the realization of the tax benefit is not probable. Based on managements evaluation of the Companys tax position, it is believed the amounts related to these tax exposures are appropriately accrued. To the extent the Company were to favorably resolve matters for which accruals have been established or be required to pay amounts in excess of the aforementioned reserves, the Companys effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be impacted. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and affiliated corporate joint ventures accounted for on the equity method are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by unpredictable factors such as weather, plantings, government (domestic and foreign) farm programs and policies, changes in population growth, changes in standards of living, and production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned unpredictable factors, therefore, may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and profitability of the Companys fixed asset base in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its factories. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment and technology related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. Assets are abandoned after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of this fixed asset base, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Valuation of Marketable Securities and Investments in Affiliates The Company classifies the majority of its marketable securities as available for sale and carries these securities at fair value. Investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings. For publicly traded securities, the fair value of the Companys investments is readily available based on quoted market prices. For non publicly traded securities, managements assessment of fair value is based on valuation methodologies including discounted cash flows and estimates of sales proceeds. In the event of a decline in fair value of an investment below carrying value, management may be required to determine if the decline in fair value is other than temporary. In evaluating the nature of a decline in the fair value of an investment, management considers the market conditions, trends of earnings, discounted cash flows, trading volumes, and other key measures of the investment as well as the Companys ability and intent to hold the investment. When such a decline in value is deemed to be other than temporary, an impairment loss is recognized in the current period operating results to the extent of the decline. See Notes 3 and 5 to the Companys consolidated financial statements for information regarding the Companys marketable securities and investments in affiliates. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these marketable securities, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) The Company is a limited partner in various private equity funds which invest primarily in emerging markets. The Company accounts for these limited partnerships using the equity method of accounting. Therefore, the Company is recording in the consolidated statement of earnings its proportional share of the limited partnerships net income or loss. The limited partnerships value their investments at fair value. Thus, unrealized gains and losses related to the change in fair value of these investments are recorded in the limited partnerships statements of earnings. The valuation of these investments, as determined by the general partner, can be subjective, and the values may vary significantly. Some of the factors causing the subjectivity and volatility of these valuations include the illiquidity and minority positions of these investments, currency exchange rate fluctuations, less regulated securities exchanges, and the inherent business risks and limitations present in the emerging market countries. The Company records the results of these limited partnerships based on the information provided to the Company by the general partner. Due to the subjectivity and volatility in valuing these investments, the fair value of these investments, and thus the Companys results, could vary significantly over future periods. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in commodities futures prices, marketable equity security prices, market prices of limited partnerships investments, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and price of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to unpredictable factors such as weather, plantings, government (domestic and foreign) farm programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. To reduce price risk caused by market fluctuations, the Company generally follows a policy of using exchange traded futures and options contracts to minimize its net position of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories and forward cash purchase and sales contracts. The Company will also use exchange traded futures and options contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the volatility of the relationship between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contracts defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company from time to time enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) A sensitivity analysis has been prepared to estimate the Companys exposure to market risk of its daily net commodity position. The Companys daily net commodity position consists of inventories, related purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures contracts, including those contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements. The fair value of such daily net commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing each net position at quoted futures prices. Market risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in such prices. Actual results may differ. 2007 2006 Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest long position $ 703 $ 70 $ 510 $ 51 Highest short position 565 57 574 57 Average position long (short) 180 18 (203 ) (20 ) The change in fair value of the average position for 2007 compared to 2006 was principally a result of changes in the daily net commodity position and commodity prices. Marketable Equity Securities Marketable equity securities, which are recorded at fair value, have exposure to price risk. The fair value of marketable equity securities is based on quoted market prices. Risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted market prices. Actual results may differ. 2007 2006 (In millions) Fair value $ 227 $ 640 Market risk 23 64 The decrease in fair value for 2007 compared to 2006 resulted primarily from disposals of securities partially offset by increases in fair market value of certain securities. Limited Partnerships The Company is a limited partner in various private equity funds which invest primarily in emerging markets. The Company accounts for these limited partnerships using the equity method of accounting. Therefore, the Company is recording in the consolidated statement of earnings its proportional share of the limited partnerships net income or loss. The limited partnerships value their investments at fair value. Risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in market prices of the limited partnerships investments. Actual results may differ. 2007 2006 (In millions) Fair value of partnerships investments $ 188 $ 210 Market risk 19 21 The decrease in fair value for 2007 compared to 2006 resulted primarily from returns of capital. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) Currencies In order to reduce the risk of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, except for amounts permanently invested as described below, the Company follows a policy of entering into currency exchange forward contracts to mitigate its foreign currency risk related to transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currencies applicable to each of its various entities. The instruments used are readily marketable exchange traded futures contracts and forward contracts with banks. The changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $5.4 billion at June 30, 2007, and $4.5 billion at June 30, 2006. This increase is due to an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and appreciation of foreign currency exchange rates. The potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $543 million and $454 million for 2007 and 2006, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical .5 % decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2007 2006 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 4,927 $ 4,387 Excess of fair value over carrying value 110 257 Market risk 204 218 The increase in fair value of long term debt in 2007 resulted principally from the Companys issuance of $1.2 billion convertible senior notes partially offset by repayment of $400 million of debentures and other principal payments of long term debt. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Concurrent with the issuance of the Notes, the Company purchased call options in private transactions at a cost of $299 million. The purchased call options allow the Company to receive shares of its common stock and or cash from the counterparties equal to the amounts of common stock and or cash related to the excess of the current market price of the Companys common stock over the exercise price of the purchased call options. In addition, the Company sold warrants in private transactions to acquire, subject to customary anti dilution adjustments, 26.3 million shares of its common stock at an exercise price of $62.56 per share and received proceeds of $170 million. If the average price of the Companys common stock during a defined period ending on or about the respective settlement dates exceeds the exercise price of the warrants, the warrants will be settled, at the Companys option, in cash or shares of common stock. The purchased call options and warrants are intended to reduce the potential dilution upon future conversions of the Notes by effectively increasing the initial conversion price to $62.56 per share. Upon closing of the sale of the Notes, $370 million of the net proceeds from the Note issuance and the proceeds from the warrant transactions were used to repurchase 10.3 million shares of the Companys common stock under the Companys stock repurchase program. As of June 30, 2007, none of the conditions permitting conversion of the Notes had been satisfied. In addition, as of June 30, 2007, the market price of the Companys common stock was not greater than the exercise price of the purchased call options or warrants. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements In the normal course of business, the Company enters into contracts and commitments which obligate the Company to make payments in the future. The following table sets forth the Companys significant future obligations by time period. Purchases include commodity based contracts entered into in the normal course of business, which are further described in Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, energy related purchase contracts entered into in the normal course of business, and other purchase obligations related to the Companys normal business activities. Where applicable, information included in the Companys consolidated financial statements and notes is cross referenced in this table. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Payments Due by Period Contractual Note Less than 2 3 4 5 Over Obligations Reference Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years (In millions) Purchases Inventories $ 11,113 $ 10,312 $ 535 $ 159 $ 107 Energy 429 269 152 7 1 Other 217 67 94 43 13 Total purchases 11,759 10,648 781 209 121 Short term debt Note 7 468 468 Long term debt Note 7 4,897 65 92 425 4,315 Estimated interest payments 5,752 290 509 474 4,479 Operating leases Note 12 900 318 241 132 209 Estimated pension and other postretirement plan contributions Note 13 1,045 79 173 195 598 Total $ 24,821 $ 11,868 $ 1,796 $ 1,435 $ 9,722 At June 30, 2007, the Company estimates it will spend approximately $3.0 billion over the next four years to complete approved capital projects and acquisitions. The Company is a limited partner in various private equity funds which invest primarily in emerging markets. At June 30, 2007, the Companys carrying value of these limited partnership investments was $165 million. The Company has future capital commitments related to these partnerships of $138 million and expects the majority of these additional capital commitments, if called for, to be funded by cash flows generated by the partnerships. The Company also has outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds of $339 million at June 30, 2007. In addition, the Company has entered into agreements, primarily debt guarantee agreements related to equity method investees, which could obligate the Company to make future payments. The Companys liability under these agreements arises only if the primary entity fails to perform its contractual obligation. The Company has collateral for a portion of these contingent obligations. At June 30, 2007, these contingent obligations totaled approximately $98 million. Amounts outstanding for the primary entity under these contingent obligations were $51 million at June 30, 2007. Critical Accounting Policies The process of preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the carrying values of the Companys assets and liabilities as well as the recognition of revenues and expenses. These estimates and judgments are based on the Companys historical experience and managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Certain of the Companys accounting policies are considered critical, as these policies are important to the depiction of the Companys financial statements and require significant or complex judgment by management. Management has discussed with the Companys Audit Committee the development, selection, disclosure, and application of these critical accounting policies. Following are the accounting policies management considers critical to the Companys financial statements. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Inventories and Derivatives Certain of the Companys merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, forward fixed price purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and options contracts are valued at estimated market values. These merchandisable agricultural commodities are freely traded, have quoted market prices, and may be sold without significant additional processing. Management estimates market value based on exchange quoted prices, adjusted for differences in local markets. Changes in the market values of these inventories and contracts are recognized in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. If management used different methods or factors to estimate market value, amounts reported as inventories and cost of products sold could differ. Additionally, if market conditions change subsequent to year end, amounts reported in future periods as inventories and cost of products sold could differ. The Company, from time to time, uses derivative contracts to fix the purchase price of anticipated volumes of commodities to be purchased and processed in a future month, to fix the purchase price of the Companys anticipated natural gas requirements for certain production facilities, and to fix the sales price of anticipated volumes of ethanol. These derivative contracts are designated as cash flow hedges. The change in the market value of such derivative contracts has historically been, and is expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. If it is determined that the derivative instruments used are no longer effective at offsetting changes in the price of the hedged item, then the changes in the market value of these exchange traded futures contracts would be recorded in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. Employee Benefit Plans The Company provides substantially all domestic employees and employees at certain international subsidiaries with pension benefits. The Company also provides substantially all domestic salaried employees with postretirement health care and life insurance benefits. In order to measure the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans, management makes several estimates and assumptions, including interest rates used to discount certain liabilities, rates of return on assets set aside to fund these plans, rates of compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and anticipated future health care costs. These estimates and assumptions are based on the Companys historical experience combined with managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Management also uses third party specialists to assist in measuring the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans. If management used different estimates and assumptions regarding these plans, the funded status of the plans could vary significantly, and the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Income Taxes The Company frequently faces challenges from domestic and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company records reserves for probable exposures. Deferred tax assets represent items to be used as tax deductions or credits in future tax returns, and the related tax benefit has already been recognized in the Companys income statement. Realization of certain deferred tax assets reflects the Companys tax planning strategies. Valuation allowances related to these deferred tax assets have been established to the extent the realization of the tax benefit is not probable. Based on managements evaluation of the Companys tax position, it is believed the amounts related to these tax exposures are appropriately accrued. To the extent the Company were to favorably resolve matters for which accruals have been established or be required to pay amounts in excess of the aforementioned reserves, the Companys effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be impacted. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and affiliated corporate joint ventures accounted for on the equity method are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by unpredictable factors such as weather, plantings, government (domestic and foreign) farm programs and policies, changes in population growth, changes in standards of living, and production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned unpredictable factors, therefore, may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and profitability of the Companys fixed asset base in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its factories. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment and technology related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. Assets are abandoned after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of this fixed asset base, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Valuation of Marketable Securities and Investments in Affiliates The Company classifies the majority of its marketable securities as available for sale and carries these securities at fair value. Investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings. For publicly traded securities, the fair value of the Companys investments is readily available based on quoted market prices. For non publicly traded securities, managements assessment of fair value is based on valuation methodologies including discounted cash flows and estimates of sales proceeds. In the event of a decline in fair value of an investment below carrying value, management may be required to determine if the decline in fair value is other than temporary. In evaluating the nature of a decline in the fair value of an investment, management considers the market conditions, trends of earnings, discounted cash flows, trading volumes, and other key measures of the investment as well as the Companys ability and intent to hold the investment. When such a decline in value is deemed to be other than temporary, an impairment loss is recognized in the current period operating results to the extent of the decline. See Notes 3 and 5 to the Companys consolidated financial statements for information regarding the Companys marketable securities and investments in affiliates. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these marketable securities, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) The Company is a limited partner in various private equity funds which invest primarily in emerging markets. The Company accounts for these limited partnerships using the equity method of accounting. Therefore, the Company is recording in the consolidated statement of earnings its proportional share of the limited partnerships net income or loss. The limited partnerships value their investments at fair value. Thus, unrealized gains and losses related to the change in fair value of these investments are recorded in the limited partnerships statements of earnings. The valuation of these investments, as determined by the general partner, can be subjective, and the values may vary significantly. Some of the factors causing the subjectivity and volatility of these valuations include the illiquidity and minority positions of these investments, currency exchange rate fluctuations, less regulated securities exchanges, and the inherent business risks and limitations present in the emerging market countries. The Company records the results of these limited partnerships based on the information provided to the Company by the general partner. Due to the subjectivity and volatility in valuing these investments, the fair value of these investments, and thus the Companys results, could vary significantly over future periods. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in commodities futures prices, marketable equity security prices, market prices of limited partnerships investments, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and price of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to unpredictable factors such as weather, plantings, government (domestic and foreign) farm programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. To reduce price risk caused by market fluctuations, the Company generally follows a policy of using exchange traded futures and options contracts to minimize its net position of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories and forward cash purchase and sales contracts. The Company will also use exchange traded futures and options contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the volatility of the relationship between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contracts defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company from time to time enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) A sensitivity analysis has been prepared to estimate the Companys exposure to market risk of its daily net commodity position. The Companys daily net commodity position consists of inventories, related purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures contracts, including those contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements. The fair value of such daily net commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing each net position at quoted futures prices. Market risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in such prices. Actual results may differ. 2007 2006 Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest long position $ 703 $ 70 $ 510 $ 51 Highest short position 565 57 574 57 Average position long (short) 180 18 (203 ) (20 ) The change in fair value of the average position for 2007 compared to 2006 was principally a result of changes in the daily net commodity position and commodity prices. Marketable Equity Securities Marketable equity securities, which are recorded at fair value, have exposure to price risk. The fair value of marketable equity securities is based on quoted market prices. Risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted market prices. Actual results may differ. 2007 2006 (In millions) Fair value $ 227 $ 640 Market risk 23 64 The decrease in fair value for 2007 compared to 2006 resulted primarily from disposals of securities partially offset by increases in fair market value of certain securities. Limited Partnerships The Company is a limited partner in various private equity funds which invest primarily in emerging markets. The Company accounts for these limited partnerships using the equity method of accounting. Therefore, the Company is recording in the consolidated statement of earnings its proportional share of the limited partnerships net income or loss. The limited partnerships value their investments at fair value. Risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in market prices of the limited partnerships investments. Actual results may differ. 2007 2006 (In millions) Fair value of partnerships investments $ 188 $ 210 Market risk 19 21 The decrease in fair value for 2007 compared to 2006 resulted primarily from returns of capital. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) Currencies In order to reduce the risk of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, except for amounts permanently invested as described below, the Company follows a policy of entering into currency exchange forward contracts to mitigate its foreign currency risk related to transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currencies applicable to each of its various entities. The instruments used are readily marketable exchange traded futures contracts and forward contracts with banks. The changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $5.4 billion at June 30, 2007, and $4.5 billion at June 30, 2006. This increase is due to an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and appreciation of foreign currency exchange rates. The potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $543 million and $454 million for 2007 and 2006, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical .5 % decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2007 2006 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 4,927 $ 4,387 Excess of fair value over carrying value 110 257 Market risk 204 218 The increase in fair value of long term debt in 2007 resulted principally from the Companys issuance of $1.2 billion convertible senior notes partially offset by repayment of $400 million of debentures and other principal payments of long term debt. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Payments Due by Period Contractual Note Less than 2 3 4 5 Over Obligations Reference Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years (In millions) Purchases Inventories $ 11,113 $ 10,312 $ 535 $ 159 $ 107 Energy 429 269 152 7 1 Other 217 67 94 43 13 Total purchases 11,759 10,648 781 209 121 Short term debt Note 7 468 468 Long term debt Note 7 4,897 65 92 425 4,315 Estimated interest payments 5,752 290 509 474 4,479 Operating leases Note 12 900 318 241 132 209 Estimated pension and other postretirement plan contributions Note 13 1,045 79 173 195 598 Total $ 24,821 $ 11,868 $ 1,796 $ 1,435 $ 9,722 At June 30, 2007, the Company estimates it will spend approximately $3.0 billion over the next four years to complete approved capital projects and acquisitions. The Company is a limited partner in various private equity funds which invest primarily in emerging markets. At June 30, 2007, the Companys carrying value of these limited partnership investments was $165 million. The Company has future capital commitments related to these partnerships of $138 million and expects the majority of these additional capital commitments, if called for, to be funded by cash flows generated by the partnerships. The Company also has outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds of $339 million at June 30, 2007. In addition, the Company has entered into agreements, primarily debt guarantee agreements related to equity method investees, which could obligate the Company to make future payments. The Companys liability under these agreements arises only if the primary entity fails to perform its contractual obligation. The Company has collateral for a portion of these contingent obligations. At June 30, 2007, these contingent obligations totaled approximately $98 million. Amounts outstanding for the primary entity under these contingent obligations were $51 million at June 30, 2007. Critical Accounting Policies The process of preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the carrying values of the Companys assets and liabilities as well as the recognition of revenues and expenses. These estimates and judgments are based on the Companys historical experience and managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Certain of the Companys accounting policies are considered critical, as these policies are important to the depiction of the Companys financial statements and require significant or complex judgment by management. Management has discussed with the Companys Audit Committee the development, selection, disclosure, and application of these critical accounting policies. Following are the accounting policies management considers critical to the Companys financial statements. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Inventories and Derivatives Certain of the Companys merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, forward fixed price purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and options contracts are valued at estimated market values. These merchandisable agricultural commodities are freely traded, have quoted market prices, and may be sold without significant additional processing. Management estimates market value based on exchange quoted prices, adjusted for differences in local markets. Changes in the market values of these inventories and contracts are recognized in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. If management used different methods or factors to estimate market value, amounts reported as inventories and cost of products sold could differ. Additionally, if market conditions change subsequent to year end, amounts reported in future periods as inventories and cost of products sold could differ. The Company, from time to time, uses derivative contracts to fix the purchase price of anticipated volumes of commodities to be purchased and processed in a future month, to fix the purchase price of the Companys anticipated natural gas requirements for certain production facilities, and to fix the sales price of anticipated volumes of ethanol. These derivative contracts are designated as cash flow hedges. The change in the market value of such derivative contracts has historically been, and is expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. If it is determined that the derivative instruments used are no longer effective at offsetting changes in the price of the hedged item, then the changes in the market value of these exchange traded futures contracts would be recorded in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. Employee Benefit Plans The Company provides substantially all domestic employees and employees at certain international subsidiaries with pension benefits. The Company also provides substantially all domestic salaried employees with postretirement health care and life insurance benefits. In order to measure the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans, management makes several estimates and assumptions, including interest rates used to discount certain liabilities, rates of return on assets set aside to fund these plans, rates of compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and anticipated future health care costs. These estimates and assumptions are based on the Companys historical experience combined with managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Management also uses third party specialists to assist in measuring the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans. If management used different estimates and assumptions regarding these plans, the funded status of the plans could vary significantly, and the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Income Taxes The Company frequently faces challenges from domestic and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company records reserves for probable exposures. Deferred tax assets represent items to be used as tax deductions or credits in future tax returns, and the related tax benefit has already been recognized in the Companys income statement. Realization of certain deferred tax assets reflects the Companys tax planning strategies. Valuation allowances related to these deferred tax assets have been established to the extent the realization of the tax benefit is not probable. Based on managements evaluation of the Companys tax position, it is believed the amounts related to these tax exposures are appropriately accrued. To the extent the Company were to favorably resolve matters for which accruals have been established or be required to pay amounts in excess of the aforementioned reserves, the Companys effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be impacted. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and affiliated corporate joint ventures accounted for on the equity method are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by unpredictable factors such as weather, plantings, government (domestic and foreign) farm programs and policies, changes in population growth, changes in standards of living, and production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned unpredictable factors, therefore, may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and profitability of the Companys fixed asset base in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its factories. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment and technology related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. Assets are abandoned after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of this fixed asset base, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Valuation of Marketable Securities and Investments in Affiliates The Company classifies the majority of its marketable securities as available for sale and carries these securities at fair value. Investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings. For publicly traded securities, the fair value of the Companys investments is readily available based on quoted market prices. For non publicly traded securities, managements assessment of fair value is based on valuation methodologies including discounted cash flows and estimates of sales proceeds. In the event of a decline in fair value of an investment below carrying value, management may be required to determine if the decline in fair value is other than temporary. In evaluating the nature of a decline in the fair value of an investment, management considers the market conditions, trends of earnings, discounted cash flows, trading volumes, and other key measures of the investment as well as the Companys ability and intent to hold the investment. When such a decline in value is deemed to be other than temporary, an impairment loss is recognized in the current period operating results to the extent of the decline. See Notes 3 and 5 to the Companys consolidated financial statements for information regarding the Companys marketable securities and investments in affiliates. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these marketable securities, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) The Company is a limited partner in various private equity funds which invest primarily in emerging markets. The Company accounts for these limited partnerships using the equity method of accounting. Therefore, the Company is recording in the consolidated statement of earnings its proportional share of the limited partnerships net income or loss. The limited partnerships value their investments at fair value. Thus, unrealized gains and losses related to the change in fair value of these investments are recorded in the limited partnerships statements of earnings. The valuation of these investments, as determined by the general partner, can be subjective, and the values may vary significantly. Some of the factors causing the subjectivity and volatility of these valuations include the illiquidity and minority positions of these investments, currency exchange rate fluctuations, less regulated securities exchanges, and the inherent business risks and limitations present in the emerging market countries. The Company records the results of these limited partnerships based on the information provided to the Company by the general partner. Due to the subjectivity and volatility in valuing these investments, the fair value of these investments, and thus the Companys results, could vary significantly over future periods. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in commodities futures prices, marketable equity security prices, market prices of limited partnerships investments, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and price of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to unpredictable factors such as weather, plantings, government (domestic and foreign) farm programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. To reduce price risk caused by market fluctuations, the Company generally follows a policy of using exchange traded futures and options contracts to minimize its net position of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories and forward cash purchase and sales contracts. The Company will also use exchange traded futures and options contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the volatility of the relationship between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contracts defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company from time to time enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) A sensitivity analysis has been prepared to estimate the Companys exposure to market risk of its daily net commodity position. The Companys daily net commodity position consists of inventories, related purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures contracts, including those contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements. The fair value of such daily net commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing each net position at quoted futures prices. Market risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in such prices. Actual results may differ. 2007 2006 Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest long position $ 703 $ 70 $ 510 $ 51 Highest short position 565 57 574 57 Average position long (short) 180 18 (203 ) (20 ) The change in fair value of the average position for 2007 compared to 2006 was principally a result of changes in the daily net commodity position and commodity prices. Marketable Equity Securities Marketable equity securities, which are recorded at fair value, have exposure to price risk. The fair value of marketable equity securities is based on quoted market prices. Risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted market prices. Actual results may differ. 2007 2006 (In millions) Fair value $ 227 $ 640 Market risk 23 64 The decrease in fair value for 2007 compared to 2006 resulted primarily from disposals of securities partially offset by increases in fair market value of certain securities. Limited Partnerships The Company is a limited partner in various private equity funds which invest primarily in emerging markets. The Company accounts for these limited partnerships using the equity method of accounting. Therefore, the Company is recording in the consolidated statement of earnings its proportional share of the limited partnerships net income or loss. The limited partnerships value their investments at fair value. Risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in market prices of the limited partnerships investments. Actual results may differ. 2007 2006 (In millions) Fair value of partnerships investments $ 188 $ 210 Market risk 19 21 The decrease in fair value for 2007 compared to 2006 resulted primarily from returns of capital. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) Currencies In order to reduce the risk of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, except for amounts permanently invested as described below, the Company follows a policy of entering into currency exchange forward contracts to mitigate its foreign currency risk related to transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currencies applicable to each of its various entities. The instruments used are readily marketable exchange traded futures contracts and forward contracts with banks. The changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $5.4 billion at June 30, 2007, and $4.5 billion at June 30, 2006. This increase is due to an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and appreciation of foreign currency exchange rates. The potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $543 million and $454 million for 2007 and 2006, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical .5 % decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2007 2006 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 4,927 $ 4,387 Excess of fair value over carrying value 110 257 Market risk 204 218 The increase in fair value of long term debt in 2007 resulted principally from the Companys issuance of $1.2 billion convertible senior notes partially offset by repayment of $400 million of debentures and other principal payments of long term debt. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Inventories and Derivatives Certain of the Companys merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, forward fixed price purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and options contracts are valued at estimated market values. These merchandisable agricultural commodities are freely traded, have quoted market prices, and may be sold without significant additional processing. Management estimates market value based on exchange quoted prices, adjusted for differences in local markets. Changes in the market values of these inventories and contracts are recognized in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. If management used different methods or factors to estimate market value, amounts reported as inventories and cost of products sold could differ. Additionally, if market conditions change subsequent to year end, amounts reported in future periods as inventories and cost of products sold could differ. The Company, from time to time, uses derivative contracts to fix the purchase price of anticipated volumes of commodities to be purchased and processed in a future month, to fix the purchase price of the Companys anticipated natural gas requirements for certain production facilities, and to fix the sales price of anticipated volumes of ethanol. These derivative contracts are designated as cash flow hedges. The change in the market value of such derivative contracts has historically been, and is expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. If it is determined that the derivative instruments used are no longer effective at offsetting changes in the price of the hedged item, then the changes in the market value of these exchange traded futures contracts would be recorded in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. Employee Benefit Plans The Company provides substantially all domestic employees and employees at certain international subsidiaries with pension benefits. The Company also provides substantially all domestic salaried employees with postretirement health care and life insurance benefits. In order to measure the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans, management makes several estimates and assumptions, including interest rates used to discount certain liabilities, rates of return on assets set aside to fund these plans, rates of compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and anticipated future health care costs. These estimates and assumptions are based on the Companys historical experience combined with managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Management also uses third party specialists to assist in measuring the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans. If management used different estimates and assumptions regarding these plans, the funded status of the plans could vary significantly, and the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Income Taxes The Company frequently faces challenges from domestic and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company records reserves for probable exposures. Deferred tax assets represent items to be used as tax deductions or credits in future tax returns, and the related tax benefit has already been recognized in the Companys income statement. Realization of certain deferred tax assets reflects the Companys tax planning strategies. Valuation allowances related to these deferred tax assets have been established to the extent the realization of the tax benefit is not probable. Based on managements evaluation of the Companys tax position, it is believed the amounts related to these tax exposures are appropriately accrued. To the extent the Company were to favorably resolve matters for which accruals have been established or be required to pay amounts in excess of the aforementioned reserves, the Companys effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be impacted. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and affiliated corporate joint ventures accounted for on the equity method are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by unpredictable factors such as weather, plantings, government (domestic and foreign) farm programs and policies, changes in population growth, changes in standards of living, and production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned unpredictable factors, therefore, may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and profitability of the Companys fixed asset base in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its factories. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment and technology related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. Assets are abandoned after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of this fixed asset base, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Valuation of Marketable Securities and Investments in Affiliates The Company classifies the majority of its marketable securities as available for sale and carries these securities at fair value. Investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings. For publicly traded securities, the fair value of the Companys investments is readily available based on quoted market prices. For non publicly traded securities, managements assessment of fair value is based on valuation methodologies including discounted cash flows and estimates of sales proceeds. In the event of a decline in fair value of an investment below carrying value, management may be required to determine if the decline in fair value is other than temporary. In evaluating the nature of a decline in the fair value of an investment, management considers the market conditions, trends of earnings, discounted cash flows, trading volumes, and other key measures of the investment as well as the Companys ability and intent to hold the investment. When such a decline in value is deemed to be other than temporary, an impairment loss is recognized in the current period operating results to the extent of the decline. See Notes 3 and 5 to the Companys consolidated financial statements for information regarding the Companys marketable securities and investments in affiliates. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these marketable securities, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) The Company is a limited partner in various private equity funds which invest primarily in emerging markets. The Company accounts for these limited partnerships using the equity method of accounting. Therefore, the Company is recording in the consolidated statement of earnings its proportional share of the limited partnerships net income or loss. The limited partnerships value their investments at fair value. Thus, unrealized gains and losses related to the change in fair value of these investments are recorded in the limited partnerships statements of earnings. The valuation of these investments, as determined by the general partner, can be subjective, and the values may vary significantly. Some of the factors causing the subjectivity and volatility of these valuations include the illiquidity and minority positions of these investments, currency exchange rate fluctuations, less regulated securities exchanges, and the inherent business risks and limitations present in the emerging market countries. The Company records the results of these limited partnerships based on the information provided to the Company by the general partner. Due to the subjectivity and volatility in valuing these investments, the fair value of these investments, and thus the Companys results, could vary significantly over future periods. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in commodities futures prices, marketable equity security prices, market prices of limited partnerships investments, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and price of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to unpredictable factors such as weather, plantings, government (domestic and foreign) farm programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. To reduce price risk caused by market fluctuations, the Company generally follows a policy of using exchange traded futures and options contracts to minimize its net position of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories and forward cash purchase and sales contracts. The Company will also use exchange traded futures and options contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the volatility of the relationship between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contracts defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company from time to time enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) A sensitivity analysis has been prepared to estimate the Companys exposure to market risk of its daily net commodity position. The Companys daily net commodity position consists of inventories, related purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures contracts, including those contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements. The fair value of such daily net commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing each net position at quoted futures prices. Market risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in such prices. Actual results may differ. 2007 2006 Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest long position $ 703 $ 70 $ 510 $ 51 Highest short position 565 57 574 57 Average position long (short) 180 18 (203 ) (20 ) The change in fair value of the average position for 2007 compared to 2006 was principally a result of changes in the daily net commodity position and commodity prices. Marketable Equity Securities Marketable equity securities, which are recorded at fair value, have exposure to price risk. The fair value of marketable equity securities is based on quoted market prices. Risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted market prices. Actual results may differ. 2007 2006 (In millions) Fair value $ 227 $ 640 Market risk 23 64 The decrease in fair value for 2007 compared to 2006 resulted primarily from disposals of securities partially offset by increases in fair market value of certain securities. Limited Partnerships The Company is a limited partner in various private equity funds which invest primarily in emerging markets. The Company accounts for these limited partnerships using the equity method of accounting. Therefore, the Company is recording in the consolidated statement of earnings its proportional share of the limited partnerships net income or loss. The limited partnerships value their investments at fair value. Risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in market prices of the limited partnerships investments. Actual results may differ. 2007 2006 (In millions) Fair value of partnerships investments $ 188 $ 210 Market risk 19 21 The decrease in fair value for 2007 compared to 2006 resulted primarily from returns of capital. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) Currencies In order to reduce the risk of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, except for amounts permanently invested as described below, the Company follows a policy of entering into currency exchange forward contracts to mitigate its foreign currency risk related to transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currencies applicable to each of its various entities. The instruments used are readily marketable exchange traded futures contracts and forward contracts with banks. The changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $5.4 billion at June 30, 2007, and $4.5 billion at June 30, 2006. This increase is due to an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and appreciation of foreign currency exchange rates. The potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $543 million and $454 million for 2007 and 2006, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical .5 % decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2007 2006 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 4,927 $ 4,387 Excess of fair value over carrying value 110 257 Market risk 204 218 The increase in fair value of long term debt in 2007 resulted principally from the Companys issuance of $1.2 billion convertible senior notes partially offset by repayment of $400 million of debentures and other principal payments of long term debt. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and affiliated corporate joint ventures accounted for on the equity method are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by unpredictable factors such as weather, plantings, government (domestic and foreign) farm programs and policies, changes in population growth, changes in standards of living, and production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned unpredictable factors, therefore, may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and profitability of the Companys fixed asset base in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its factories. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment and technology related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. Assets are abandoned after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of this fixed asset base, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Valuation of Marketable Securities and Investments in Affiliates The Company classifies the majority of its marketable securities as available for sale and carries these securities at fair value. Investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings. For publicly traded securities, the fair value of the Companys investments is readily available based on quoted market prices. For non publicly traded securities, managements assessment of fair value is based on valuation methodologies including discounted cash flows and estimates of sales proceeds. In the event of a decline in fair value of an investment below carrying value, management may be required to determine if the decline in fair value is other than temporary. In evaluating the nature of a decline in the fair value of an investment, management considers the market conditions, trends of earnings, discounted cash flows, trading volumes, and other key measures of the investment as well as the Companys ability and intent to hold the investment. When such a decline in value is deemed to be other than temporary, an impairment loss is recognized in the current period operating results to the extent of the decline. See Notes 3 and 5 to the Companys consolidated financial statements for information regarding the Companys marketable securities and investments in affiliates. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these marketable securities, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) The Company is a limited partner in various private equity funds which invest primarily in emerging markets. The Company accounts for these limited partnerships using the equity method of accounting. Therefore, the Company is recording in the consolidated statement of earnings its proportional share of the limited partnerships net income or loss. The limited partnerships value their investments at fair value. Thus, unrealized gains and losses related to the change in fair value of these investments are recorded in the limited partnerships statements of earnings. The valuation of these investments, as determined by the general partner, can be subjective, and the values may vary significantly. Some of the factors causing the subjectivity and volatility of these valuations include the illiquidity and minority positions of these investments, currency exchange rate fluctuations, less regulated securities exchanges, and the inherent business risks and limitations present in the emerging market countries. The Company records the results of these limited partnerships based on the information provided to the Company by the general partner. Due to the subjectivity and volatility in valuing these investments, the fair value of these investments, and thus the Companys results, could vary significantly over future periods. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in commodities futures prices, marketable equity security prices, market prices of limited partnerships investments, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and price of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to unpredictable factors such as weather, plantings, government (domestic and foreign) farm programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. To reduce price risk caused by market fluctuations, the Company generally follows a policy of using exchange traded futures and options contracts to minimize its net position of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories and forward cash purchase and sales contracts. The Company will also use exchange traded futures and options contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the volatility of the relationship between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contracts defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company from time to time enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) A sensitivity analysis has been prepared to estimate the Companys exposure to market risk of its daily net commodity position. The Companys daily net commodity position consists of inventories, related purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures contracts, including those contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements. The fair value of such daily net commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing each net position at quoted futures prices. Market risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in such prices. Actual results may differ. 2007 2006 Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest long position $ 703 $ 70 $ 510 $ 51 Highest short position 565 57 574 57 Average position long (short) 180 18 (203 ) (20 ) The change in fair value of the average position for 2007 compared to 2006 was principally a result of changes in the daily net commodity position and commodity prices. Marketable Equity Securities Marketable equity securities, which are recorded at fair value, have exposure to price risk. The fair value of marketable equity securities is based on quoted market prices. Risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted market prices. Actual results may differ. 2007 2006 (In millions) Fair value $ 227 $ 640 Market risk 23 64 The decrease in fair value for 2007 compared to 2006 resulted primarily from disposals of securities partially offset by increases in fair market value of certain securities. Limited Partnerships The Company is a limited partner in various private equity funds which invest primarily in emerging markets. The Company accounts for these limited partnerships using the equity method of accounting. Therefore, the Company is recording in the consolidated statement of earnings its proportional share of the limited partnerships net income or loss. The limited partnerships value their investments at fair value. Risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in market prices of the limited partnerships investments. Actual results may differ. 2007 2006 (In millions) Fair value of partnerships investments $ 188 $ 210 Market risk 19 21 The decrease in fair value for 2007 compared to 2006 resulted primarily from returns of capital. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) Currencies In order to reduce the risk of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, except for amounts permanently invested as described below, the Company follows a policy of entering into currency exchange forward contracts to mitigate its foreign currency risk related to transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currencies applicable to each of its various entities. The instruments used are readily marketable exchange traded futures contracts and forward contracts with banks. The changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $5.4 billion at June 30, 2007, and $4.5 billion at June 30, 2006. This increase is due to an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and appreciation of foreign currency exchange rates. The potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $543 million and $454 million for 2007 and 2006, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical .5 % decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2007 2006 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 4,927 $ 4,387 Excess of fair value over carrying value 110 257 Market risk 204 218 The increase in fair value of long term debt in 2007 resulted principally from the Companys issuance of $1.2 billion convertible senior notes partially offset by repayment of $400 million of debentures and other principal payments of long term debt. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) The Company is a limited partner in various private equity funds which invest primarily in emerging markets. The Company accounts for these limited partnerships using the equity method of accounting. Therefore, the Company is recording in the consolidated statement of earnings its proportional share of the limited partnerships net income or loss. The limited partnerships value their investments at fair value. Thus, unrealized gains and losses related to the change in fair value of these investments are recorded in the limited partnerships statements of earnings. The valuation of these investments, as determined by the general partner, can be subjective, and the values may vary significantly. Some of the factors causing the subjectivity and volatility of these valuations include the illiquidity and minority positions of these investments, currency exchange rate fluctuations, less regulated securities exchanges, and the inherent business risks and limitations present in the emerging market countries. The Company records the results of these limited partnerships based on the information provided to the Company by the general partner. Due to the subjectivity and volatility in valuing these investments, the fair value of these investments, and thus the Companys results, could vary significantly over future periods. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in commodities futures prices, marketable equity security prices, market prices of limited partnerships investments, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and price of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to unpredictable factors such as weather, plantings, government (domestic and foreign) farm programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. To reduce price risk caused by market fluctuations, the Company generally follows a policy of using exchange traded futures and options contracts to minimize its net position of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories and forward cash purchase and sales contracts. The Company will also use exchange traded futures and options contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the volatility of the relationship between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contracts defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company from time to time enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) A sensitivity analysis has been prepared to estimate the Companys exposure to market risk of its daily net commodity position. The Companys daily net commodity position consists of inventories, related purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures contracts, including those contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements. The fair value of such daily net commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing each net position at quoted futures prices. Market risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in such prices. Actual results may differ. 2007 2006 Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest long position $ 703 $ 70 $ 510 $ 51 Highest short position 565 57 574 57 Average position long (short) 180 18 (203 ) (20 ) The change in fair value of the average position for 2007 compared to 2006 was principally a result of changes in the daily net commodity position and commodity prices. Marketable Equity Securities Marketable equity securities, which are recorded at fair value, have exposure to price risk. The fair value of marketable equity securities is based on quoted market prices. Risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted market prices. Actual results may differ. 2007 2006 (In millions) Fair value $ 227 $ 640 Market risk 23 64 The decrease in fair value for 2007 compared to 2006 resulted primarily from disposals of securities partially offset by increases in fair market value of certain securities. Limited Partnerships The Company is a limited partner in various private equity funds which invest primarily in emerging markets. The Company accounts for these limited partnerships using the equity method of accounting. Therefore, the Company is recording in the consolidated statement of earnings its proportional share of the limited partnerships net income or loss. The limited partnerships value their investments at fair value. Risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in market prices of the limited partnerships investments. Actual results may differ. 2007 2006 (In millions) Fair value of partnerships investments $ 188 $ 210 Market risk 19 21 The decrease in fair value for 2007 compared to 2006 resulted primarily from returns of capital. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) Currencies In order to reduce the risk of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, except for amounts permanently invested as described below, the Company follows a policy of entering into currency exchange forward contracts to mitigate its foreign currency risk related to transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currencies applicable to each of its various entities. The instruments used are readily marketable exchange traded futures contracts and forward contracts with banks. The changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $5.4 billion at June 30, 2007, and $4.5 billion at June 30, 2006. This increase is due to an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and appreciation of foreign currency exchange rates. The potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $543 million and $454 million for 2007 and 2006, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical .5 % decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2007 2006 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 4,927 $ 4,387 Excess of fair value over carrying value 110 257 Market risk 204 218 The increase in fair value of long term debt in 2007 resulted principally from the Companys issuance of $1.2 billion convertible senior notes partially offset by repayment of $400 million of debentures and other principal payments of long term debt. 
 
