Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Company Overview The Company is principally engaged in procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. Beginning in fiscal 2008, the Company has reclassified certain operations within its reportable segments to reflect how the Company now manages its businesses following a realignment of the organizational structure of the Company and to reflect the activities of the Company as viewed by the Companys chief operating decision maker. Prior period segment information has been reclassified to conform to the new presentation. The Companys operations are classified into three reportable business segments: Oilseeds Processing, Corn Processing and Agricultural Services. Each of these segments is organized based upon the nature of products and services offered. The Companys remaining operations are aggregated and classified as Other. The Oilseeds Processing segment includes activities related to the origination and crushing of oilseeds such as soybeans, cottonseed, sunflower seeds, canola, peanuts, and flaxseed into vegetable oils and protein meals principally for the food and feed industries. In addition, oilseeds and oilseed products may be processed internally or resold into the marketplace as raw materials for other processing. Crude vegetable oil is sold "as is" or is further processed by refining, bleaching, and deodorizing into salad oils. Salad oils can be further processed by hydrogenating and or interesterifying into margarine, shortening, and other food products. Partially refined oil is sold for use in chemicals, paints, and other industrial products. Refined oil can be further processed for use in the production of biodiesel. Oilseed protein meals are primary ingredients used in the manufacture of commercial livestock and poultry feeds. Oilseeds Processing includes activities related to the production of natural health and nutrition products and the production of other specialty food and feed ingredients. This segment also includes activities related to the Companys interests in unconsolidated affiliates in Asia, principally Wilmar International Limited. The Corn Processing segment includes activities related to the production of sweeteners, starches, dextrose, and syrups primarily for the food and beverage industry as well as activities related to the production, by fermentation, of bioproducts such as ethanol, amino acids, and other food, feed and industrial products. The Agricultural Services segment utilizes the Companys extensive grain elevator and transportation network to buy, store, clean, and transport agricultural commodities, such as oilseeds, corn, wheat, milo, oats, barley, and edible beans, and resells or processes these commodities primarily as food and feed ingredients for the agricultural processing industry. Agricultural Services grain sourcing and transportation network provides reliable and efficient services to the Companys agricultural processing operations. Also included in Agricultural Services are the activities of A.C. Toepfer International, a global merchant of agricultural commodities and processed products. Other includes the Companys remaining processing operations, consisting of activities related to processing agricultural commodities into food ingredient products such as wheat into wheat flour, cocoa into chocolate and cocoa products, and barley into malt. Other also includes financial activities related to banking, captive insurance, private equity fund investments, and futures commission merchant activities. Operating Performance Indicators The Companys Oilseeds Processing, Agricultural Services, and wheat processing operations are principally agricultural commodity based businesses where changes in selling prices move in relationship to changes in prices of the commodity based agricultural raw materials. Therefore, changes in agricultural commodity prices have relatively equal impacts on both net sales and cost of products sold and minimal impact on the gross profit of underlying transactions. As a result, changes in gross profit of these businesses do not necessarily correspond to the changes in net sales amounts. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) The Companys Corn Processing operations and certain other food and animal feed processing operations also utilize agricultural commodities (or products derived from agricultural commodities) as raw materials. In these operations, agricultural commodity market price changes can result in significant fluctuations in cost of products sold, and such price changes cannot necessarily be passed directly through to the selling price of the finished products. The Company conducts its business in many countries. For the majority of the Companys subsidiaries located outside the United States, the local currency is the functional currency. Revenues and expenses denominated in foreign currencies are translated into U.S. dollars at the weighted average exchange rates for the applicable periods. Fluctuations in the exchange rates of foreign currencies, primarily the Euro, British pound, and Canadian dollar, as compared to the U.S. dollar will result in corresponding fluctuations in the U.S. dollar value of revenues and expenses reported by the Company. The impact of these currency exchange rate changes, where significant, is discussed below. The Company measures the performance of its business segments using key operating statistics such as segment operating profit, return on fixed capital investment, return on equity, return on net assets, and cost per metric ton produced. The Companys operating results can vary significantly due to changes in unpredictable factors such as fluctuations in energy prices, weather conditions, crop plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. Due to these unpredictable factors, the Company does not provide forward looking information in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 2008 Compared to 2007 As an agricultural based commodity business, the Company is subject to a variety of market factors which affect the Companys operating results. Strong demand for agricultural commodities and processed products has challenged the global supply chain and provided exceptional margin opportunities in 2008. Strong global demand for protein meal and vegetable oil and strong fertilizer demand in South America positively impacted Oilseeds Processing results. The market price of corn rose due to increased demand, resulting in higher raw material costs for Corn Processing which were only partially passed on in the form of increased selling prices for sweeteners and starches. Average ethanol selling prices decreased due to additional supply entering the market. Large North American crops combined with global wheat shortages created favorable conditions in agricultural merchandising and handling operations. Increased commodity costs resulted in larger LIFO inventory valuation reserves. Earnings before income taxes decreased due principally to gains totaling $1.0 billion before income tax on business disposals recorded in 2007 including $440 million related to the exchange of the Companys interest in certain Asian joint ventures for shares of Wilmar International Limited (the Wilmar gain), a $357 million realized securities gain from sales of the Companys equity securities of Tyson Foods, Inc. and Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc., a gain of $153 million from the sale of the Companys interest in Agricore United, and a $53 million gain from the sale of the Companys Arkady food ingredient business. Earnings before income taxes for 2008 include a charge of $569 million from the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations, compared to a charge of $207 million in 2007. Earnings before income taxes for 2008 also include a $32 million charge related to abandonment and write down of long lived assets, a $38 million gain on sales of securities, and a $21 million gain on the disposal of long lived assets. Earnings before income taxes for 2007 include charges of $46 million related to the repurchase of $400 million of the Companys outstanding debentures and $21 million related to abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Analysis of Statements of Earnings Net sales and other operating income increased 59% to $69.8 billion. Increased selling prices of agricultural commodities and oilseed processing products and, to a lesser extent, corn processing products and wheat flour accounted for 85% of the increase and higher sales volumes, principally of agricultural commodities, ethanol, and biodiesel, also contributed to the increase in net sales. In addition, net sales and other operating income increased $1.83 billion, or 4%, due to currency rate fluctuations. Net sales and other operating income by segment are as follows: 2008 2007 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing & Origination $ 14,477 $ 8,036 $ 6,441 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel & Other 8,588 5,758 2,830 Asia 214 149 65 Total Oilseeds Processing 23,279 13,943 9,336 Corn Processing Sweeteners & Starches 3,546 2,761 785 Bioproducts 3,591 3,064 527 Total Corn Processing 7,137 5,825 1,312 Agricultural Services Merchandising & Handling 33,749 20,222 13,527 Transportation 219 197 22 Total Agricultural Services 33,968 20,419 13,549 Other Wheat, Cocoa, & Malt 5,335 3,738 1,597 Financial 97 93 4 Total Other 5,432 3,831 1,601 Total $ 69,816 $ 44,018 $ 25,798 Oilseeds Processing sales increased 67% to $23.3 billion due principally to increased average selling prices resulting primarily from increases in underlying commodity costs and from continuing strong demand for vegetable oil, biodiesel and protein meal. Sales volumes of vegetable oil, protein meal and biodiesel also increased. Corn Processing sales increased 23% to $7.1 billion. Good demand for sweeteners and starches resulted in higher average selling prices. Bioproducts sales increased primarily as a result of increased ethanol sales volumes partially offset by lower average ethanol selling prices. Increased ethanol sales volumes reflect higher gasoline prices, improved gasoline blending economics and additional demand, principally from newly opened markets in the southeastern United States. Agricultural Services sales increased 66% to $34.0 billion primarily due to increased underlying commodity costs, and to a lesser extent, increased sales volumes. Sales in the Other segment increased 42% to $5.4 billion primarily due to higher average selling prices of wheat flour and, to a lesser extent, higher sales volumes and higher average selling prices of cocoa products. Cost of products sold increased 62% to $66.0 billion primarily due to higher agricultural commodity costs, and, to a lesser extent, higher sales volumes. Manufacturing expenses increased $549 million primarily due to higher energy and transportation fuel costs, increased employee related costs, higher storage and handling costs, increased production capacity, and the impact of foreign currency translation. In addition, cost of products sold increased $1.75 billion, or 4%, due to currency rate fluctuations. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $224 million to $1.4 billion primarily due to higher employee related costs and higher outside service costs, including $44 million related to an organizational realignment and reorganization of the companys European headquarters, and increased $37 million due to the impact of currency rate fluctuations. Other income net decreased $911 million primarily due to gains totaling $1.0 billion on business disposals recorded in 2007 including $440 million related to the Wilmar gain, $357 million realized securities gain from sales of the Companys equity securities of Tyson Foods, Inc. and Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc., a gain of $153 million from the sale of the Companys interest in Agricore United, and a $53 million gain from the sale of the Companys Arkady food ingredient business. Equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates increased $121 million in 2008, primarily related to improved operating results of the Companys investments in U.S. grain export, Asian oilseeds and peanut processing ventures. Other income net also reflects $38 million in gains on sales of securities in 2008, $21 million in gains on disposals of long lived assets in 2008, an increase from 2007 to 2008 of $11 million in charges related to abandonment and write down of long lived assets, and a charge of $46 million related to the repurchase of $400 million of the Companys outstanding debentures in 2007. Operating profit by segment is as follows: 2008 2007 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing & Origination $ 727 $ 414 $ 313 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel & Other 181 202 (21 ) Asia 132 523 (391 ) Total Oilseeds Processing 1,040 1,139 (99 ) Corn Processing Sweeteners & Starches 529 509 20 Bioproducts 432 596 (164 ) Total Corn Processing 961 1,105 (144 ) Agricultural Services Merchandising & Handling 873 382 491 Transportation 144 156 (12 ) Total Agricultural Services 1,017 538 479 Other Wheat, Cocoa, & Malt 217 209 8 Financial 206 170 36 Total Other 423 379 44 Total Segment Operating Profit 3,441 3,161 280 Corporate (817 ) (7 ) (810 ) Earnings Before Income Taxes $ 2,624 $ 3,154 $ (530 ) Oilseeds Processing operating profit decreased 9% to $1.0 billion. Excluding the $440 million Wilmar gain reflected in Asia results in 2007, Oilseeds Processing operating profit increased 49%, primarily due to strong global demand for protein meal, vegetable oil, and fertilizer. Crushing and Origination operating profits increased 76% to $727 million due principally to improved crushing margins in North and South America and improved fertilizer results in South America. Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel and Other operating profits decreased 10% to $181 million due principally to decreased biodiesel margins in Europe and asset impairment charges of $28 million in 2008, partially offset by improved global refining margins. 2007 operating profit for Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel and Other includes a $14 million gain on a business disposal. Excluding the Wilmar gain, Asia operating profits increased 59% to $132 million, principally reflecting the Companys share of improved operating profits of Wilmar International Limited. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Corn Processing operating profits decreased 13% to $961 million, primarily due to higher net corn costs. Sweeteners and Starches operating profits of $529 were relatively unchanged as higher average selling prices were offset by higher net corn costs and increased manufacturing costs. Manufacturing cost increases reflect higher energy costs, higher repair and maintenance expenses, and higher costs for chemicals used in the manufacturing process. Bioproducts operating profits decreased 28% to $432 million primarily due to higher net corn costs, higher manufacturing expenses, and decreased average ethanol selling prices, partially offset by higher sales volumes for ethanol and, to a lesser extent, higher average lysine selling prices and higher lysine sales volumes. Agricultural Services operating profits increased 89% to $1.0 billion. 2007 operating profits in Merchandising and Handling include a $153 million gain on the sale of the Companys interest in Agricore United. Excluding this gain, Merchandising and Handling operating profits increased 281% to $873 million. This increase was primarily due to enhanced merchandising and handling margins caused by volatile global grain and freight markets, favorable risk management results, and to a lesser extent, increased sales volumes. Transportation operating profits decreased 8% to $144 million primarily due to increased fuel costs. Other operating profits increased 12% to $423 million. Wheat, Cocoa and Malt operating profits increased 4% to $217 million. 2007 operating profits for Wheat included a gain of $39 million from the sale of the Companys Arkady food ingredient business. Excluding the Arkady gain, Wheat, Cocoa and Malt operating profits improved 28%, primarily due to improved wheat and malt margins reflecting increased demand, partially offset by decreased cocoa processing margins reflecting higher raw material and operating costs and competitive pressures experienced in the North American chocolate market. Financial operating profits improved 21% to $206 million primarily due to improvements in the Companys futures commission merchant business. Corporate expense increased $810 million to $817 million, primarily due to a $362 million increase in the charge related to the effects of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations, a $371 million decrease in realized securities gains primarily reflecting the $357 million gain recorded in 2007 from sales of the Companys equity securities of Tyson Foods, Inc. and Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc., a $51 million increase in corporate expenses due principally to reorganization and realignment costs, partially offset by a charge of $46 million recorded in 2007 related to the repurchase of $400 million of the Companys outstanding debentures. Income taxes decreased primarily due to lower pretax earnings. The Companys effective tax rate during 2008 of 31.3% was comparable to the 2007 rate of 31.5%. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) 2007 Compared to 2006 As an agricultural based commodity business, the Company is subject to a variety of market factors which affect the Companys operating results. Strong biodiesel demand in Europe continued to create increased vegetable oil demand and positively impacted rapeseed crushing margins in Europe. Abundant oilseed supplies, improved vegetable oil values, and strong protein meal demand have positively impacted oilseed crushing margins in North America. Increased ethanol contracted selling prices, continuing strong ethanol demand, and solid demand for sweetener and starch products improved corn processing results. These increases in corn processing results were partially offset by higher net corn costs. Global grain merchandising opportunities resulting from regional production imbalances also improved operating results. North American river transportation operations were favorably impacted by strong demand for river transportation services which increased barge freight rates. Increasing commodity price levels resulted in larger LIFO inventory valuation reserves. Net earnings increased due principally to improved operating results in all of the Companys operating segments. Earnings before income taxes for 2007 include a gain of $440 million related to the exchange of the Companys interests in certain Asian joint ventures for shares of Wilmar International Limited (the Wilmar Gain), a $357 million realized securities gain from sales of the Companys equity securities of Tyson Foods, Inc. and Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc., a gain of $153 million from the sale of the Companys interest in Agricore United and a $53 million gain from the sale of the Companys Arkady food ingredient business. Earnings before income taxes for 2007 also include charges of $207 million from the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations, $46 million related to the repurchase of $400 million of the Companys outstanding debentures, and $21 million related to abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Net earnings for 2006 include a $36 million reduction in income tax expense related to the recognition of federal and state income tax credits and adjustments resulting from the reconciliation of filed tax returns to the previously estimated tax provision. Earnings before income taxes for 2006 include charges of $15 million resulting from the Companys adoption of Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation No. 47, Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations, an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 143 (FIN 47), $71 million related to abandonment and write down of long lived assets, $9 million representing the Companys share of a charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets reported by an unconsolidated affiliate of the Company, and $22 million associated with the closure of a citric acid plant and exiting the European animal feed business. Earnings before income taxes for 2006 also include credits of $12 million from the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations, $17 million from the sale of long lived assets, $46 million related to Brazilian transactional tax credits, and $40 million related to realized securities gains. Analysis of Statements of Earnings Net sales and other operating income increased 20% to $44.0 billion due primarily to increased selling prices of agricultural commodities, oilseed and corn processing products and, to a lesser extent, increased sales volumes of agricultural commodities and oilseed processing products. In addition, net sales and other operating income increased $916 million, or 3%, due to currency exchange rate fluctuations. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Net sales and other operating income by segment are as follows: 2007 2006 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing & Origination $ 8,036 $ 7,048 $ 988 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel & Other 5,758 4,726 1,032 Asia 149 119 30 Total Oilseeds Processing 13,943 11,893 2,050 Corn Processing Sweeteners & Starches 2,761 2,529 232 Bioproducts 3,064 2,727 337 Total Corn Processing 5,825 5,256 569 Agricultural Services Merchandising & Handling 20,222 15,954 4,268 Transportation 197 201 (4 ) Total Agricultural Services 20,419 16,155 4,264 Other Wheat, Cocoa, & Malt 3,738 3,217 521 Financial 93 75 18 Total Other 3,831 3,292 539 Total $ 44,018 $ 36,596 $ 7,422 Oilseeds Processing sales increased 17% to $13.9 billion due principally to increased average selling prices of vegetable oil and increased sales volumes of vegetable oil and biodiesel. Vegetable oil selling prices and volumes improved as the markets anticipated new demand from the developing United States biodiesel industry. Biodiesel sales volumes increased due to additional production capacity. Corn Processing sales increased 11% to $5.8 billion due principally to increased sales of Bioproducts and, to a lesser extent, increased sales of Sweeteners and Starches. Bioproducts sales increased primarily due to higher average selling prices of ethanol, partially offset by lower sales volumes. Ethanol average selling prices increased primarily due to higher gasoline prices. Ethanol sales volumes decreased as 2006 sales volumes exceeded production due to the release of inventories built up in anticipation of refiners replacing MTBE with ethanol. Sweeteners and Starches sales increased primarily due to higher average selling prices resulting from good demand for sweetener and starch products. Agricultural Services sales increased 26% to $20.4 billion due principally to increased agricultural commodity prices and increased sales volumes. The increase in commodity prices was primarily due to higher average market prices of corn in North America which had increased 60% from the prior year. Increased sales volumes of global grain merchandising activities also contributed to the increase in Agricultural Services sales. Other sales increased 16% to $3.8 billion primarily due to higher average selling prices of wheat flour products and, to a lesser extent, increased sales volumes and higher average selling prices of cocoa products. Cost of products sold increased 21% to $40.8 billion primarily due to higher average costs of agricultural commodities and increased sales volumes. Manufacturing costs for 2007 and 2006 include a $21 million and $62 million charge, respectively, for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. In addition, cost of products sold increased $874 million, or 3%, due to currency exchange rate fluctuations. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Selling, general, and administrative expenses of $1.2 billion were comparable to 2006 and included $25 million of currency exchange rate increases. Excluding the impact of currency exchange rate increases, selling, general and administrative expenses decreased $23 million due principally to 2006 selling, general and administrative expenses including $20 million of severance costs associated with the closure of a citric acid plant. During 2007 and 2006, the Company issued option grants and restricted stock awards to officers and key employees pursuant to the Companys Long term Management Incentive Program. Certain officers and key employees of the Company receiving option grants and restricted stock awards were eligible for retirement. Compensation expense related to option grants and restricted stock awards issued to these retirement eligible employees is recognized in earnings on the date of grant. Selling, general, and administrative expense for 2007 and 2006 includes compensation expense related to option grants and restricted stock awards granted to retirement eligible employees of $30 million and $31 million, respectively. Other income net increased $1.0 billion primarily due to the $440 million Wilmar Gain, a $357 million gain on the sale of the Companys equity securities of Tyson Foods, Inc. and Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc., a $153 million gain on the sale of the Companys interest in Agricore United, and a $53 million gain on the sale of the Companys Arkady food ingredient business. Other income net also includes a $46 million charge related to the repurchase of $400 million of the Companys outstanding debentures in 2007. Excluding these items, other income net increased $73 million primarily due to a $120 million increase in equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates, and a $53 million increase in investment income, partially offset by a $69 million increase in interest expense and a $27 million reduction in gains on sales of long lived assets. The increase in equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates was primarily due to higher valuations of the Companys private equity fund investments and improved operating results of the Companys Asian oilseed ventures. Interest expense and investment income increased primarily due to increased average borrowing and investment levels. Operating profit by segment is as follows: 2007 2006 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing & Origination $ 414 $ 376 $ 38 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel & Other 202 140 62 Asia 523 53 470 Total Oilseeds Processing 1,139 569 570 Corn Processing Sweeteners & Starches 509 458 51 Bioproducts 596 443 153 Total Corn Processing 1,105 901 204 Agricultural Services Merchandising & Handling 382 94 288 Transportation 156 143 13 Total Agricultural Services 538 237 301 Other Wheat, Cocoa, & Malt 209 228 (19 ) Financial 170 126 44 Total Other 379 354 25 Total Segment Operating Profit 3,161 2,061 1,100 Corporate (7 ) (206 ) 199 Earnings Before Income Taxes $ 3,154 $ 1,855 $ 1,299 Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Oilseeds Processing operating profits increased $570 million to $1.1 billion due principally to the $440 million Wilmar Gain and improved market conditions in all geographic regions. North American processing results improved due principally to abundant oilseed supplies in the United States and good demand for vegetable oil and soybean meal. Vegetable oil values improved as the markets anticipated new demand from the developing United States biodiesel industry. North American processing results were also favorably impacted by lower plant operating costs resulting from improved capacity utilization. Asian joint venture results improved due to improved palm processing operating results partially offset by decreased soy crushing operating results. European processing results improved due principally to abundant oilseed supplies in Europe and strong demand for vegetable oil. The strong demand for vegetable oil is the result of strong biodiesel demand. These increases were partially offset by decreased biodiesel operating profits resulting from higher vegetable oil prices, increased market production capacity, and lower diesel fuel prices. South American processing results declined due principally to the $27 million credit for Brazilian transactional taxes in 2006. Excluding the impact of the credit for Brazilian transactional taxes, South American processing results improved due principally to increased fertilizer margins. The improvement in fertilizer margins was primarily due to higher average sales prices due to improved fertilizer demand combined with stable raw material costs. Operating profits for 2007 include a $6 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Operating profits for 2006 include a $14 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets and a $6 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47. Corn Processing operating profits increased $204 million to $1.1 billion due principally to higher average selling prices and lower energy costs, partially offset by lower ethanol sales volumes and higher net corn costs. Net corn costs increased approximately 60% during 2007 due to significant anticipated demand increases for corn resulting primarily from increasing corn derived ethanol industry capacity. Agricultural commodity market concerns regarding the expected decline in the ending 2006 corn crop carryover also contributed to the increase in corn costs. Sweeteners and Starches operating profits increased $51 million primarily due to higher average sales prices and lower energy costs. Sales prices increased due principally to good demand for sweetener and starch products. These increases were partially offset by increased net corn costs. Sweeteners and Starches operating profits for 2006 include a $5 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47. Bioproducts operating profits increased $153 million primarily due to higher ethanol average selling prices and lower energy costs, partially offset by increased net corn costs and lower ethanol sales volumes. Ethanol average sales prices increased due principally to strong demand from gasoline refiners and higher gasoline prices. Ethanol sales volumes decreased as 2006 sales volumes exceeded production due to the release of inventories built up in anticipation of refiners replacing MTBE with ethanol. Bioproducts operating results for 2007 include a $1 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Bioproducts operating results for 2006 include a $6 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets, a $2 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47, and $6 million of costs related to the closure of a citric acid plant. Agricultural Services operating profits increased $301 million to $538 million due principally to a $153 million gain from the sale of the Companys interest in Agricore United, a Canadian business which specialized in crop input, crop protection services, and grain marketing and merchandising. Excluding the Agricore United gain, Agricultural Services operating profits increased $148 million to $385 million due principally to improved global grain merchandising operating results and, to a lesser extent, improved transportation and North American origination operating results. Global grain merchandising results improved as regional production imbalances allowed the Company to capitalize on merchandising opportunities. North American river transportation operating results increased primarily due to increased barge freight rates created by strong demand for barge capacity. North American origination operating results improved due to good export demand for agricultural commodities and higher ocean freight rates. Agricultural Services operating profits for 2007 include a $12 million trade disruption insurance recovery related to Hurricane Katrina. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Other operating profits increased $25 million to $379 million. Wheat, Cocoa, and Malt operating profits decreased $19 million. Wheat operating profits include a $39 million gain on the sale of the Companys Arkady food ingredient business in 2007 and a $17 million gain from the sale of long lived assets in 2006. Excluding the effect of these one time gains, Wheat, Cocoa, and Malt operating profits declined $41 million primarily due to cocoa operating results declining from prior year levels and to a lesser extent, weaker equity earnings from our investment in Gruma S.A. partially offset by improved operating results of the Companys wheat flour processing operations. Cocoa processing operating results declined primarily due to increased industry production capacity which caused downward pressure on cocoa processing margins. Financial operating profits increased $44 million due principally to increased valuations of the Companys private equity fund investments and higher operating results of the Companys futures commission merchant business, partially offset by lower operating results of the Companys captive insurance operations. The results of the Companys captive insurance operations for 2007 include a $12 million charge related to a Hurricane Katrina trade disruption insurance settlement. Corporate expense decreased $199 million to $7 million due principally to a $345 million increase in realized securities gains principally resulting from sales of the Companys equity securities of Tyson Foods, Inc. and Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc. and a $103 million reduction in unallocated interest expense due principally to higher levels of invested funds and higher interest rates. These decreases were partially offset by a $207 million charge, compared to a $12 million credit in the prior year, related to the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations and a $46 million charge related to the repurchase of $400 million of the Companys outstanding debentures. Income taxes increased due principally to higher pretax earnings and the absence of a $36 million income tax credit in 2006 related to the recognition of federal and state income tax credits and adjustments resulting from the reconciliation of filed tax returns to the previously estimated tax provision. The Companys effective tax rate during 2007 was 31.5% and, after excluding the effect of the 2006 $36 million tax credit, was 31.2% for the prior year. The increase in the Companys effective tax rate was primarily due to changes in the geographic mix of pretax earnings. Liquidity and Capital Resources A Company objective is to have sufficient liquidity, balance sheet strength, and financial flexibility to fund the operating and capital requirements of a capital intensive agricultural based commodity business. At June 30, 2008, the Company had $1.3 billion of cash, cash equivalents, and short term marketable securities and a current ratio, defined as current assets divided by current liabilities, of 1.7 to 1. Included in working capital is $7.8 billion of readily marketable commodity inventories. Cash used in operating activities totaled $3.2 billion for the year compared to $303 million cash generated from operations last year. This change was primarily due to an increase in working capital requirements principally related to increased market prices and, to a lesser extent, increased quantities of agricultural commodity inventories, principally readily marketable commodity inventories, and increased receivables. Cash used in investing activities increased $1.5 billion for the year to $1.9 billion primarily due to increased capital expenditures and decreased proceeds from sales of businesses including the sale of the Companys equity interests in Tyson Foods, Inc., Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc. and Agricore United in 2007. Cash generated by financing activities was $5.2 billion compared to cash used in financing activities of $398 million last year. Net long term borrowings increased primarily as a result of the issuance in 2008 of approximately $3.1 billion of additional long term debt, including $500 million of debentures issued in December 2007, $700 million of notes issued in March 2008, and $1.75 billion of debentures in June 2008, compared to $1.15 billion of convertible senior notes issued in February 2007, partially offset by $480 million of reduced debt payments principally related to the Companys retirement of $400 million of debentures in 2007. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Capital resources were strengthened in 2008 as shown by the increase in the Companys net worth from $11.3 billion to $13.5 billion. The Companys ratio of long term debt to total capital (the sum of the Companys long term debt and shareholders equity) was 36% at June 30, 2008, and 30% at June 30, 2007. This ratio is a measure of the Companys long term liquidity and is an indicator of financial flexibility. The Company currently has $7.4 billion of commercial paper and commercial bank lines available to meet seasonal cash requirements of which $5.2 billion are committed and $2.2 billion are uncommitted. At June 30, 2008, the Company had $3.1 billion of short term debt outstanding. Standard & Poors, Moodys, and Fitch rate the Companys commercial paper as A 1, P 1, and F1, respectively, and rate the Companys long term debt as A, A2, and A, respectively. In addition to the cash flow generated from operations, the Company has access to equity and debt capital through numerous alternatives from public and private sources in domestic and international markets. The Company has outstanding $1.15 billion principal amount of convertible senior notes. As of June 30, 2008, none of the conditions permitting conversion of the notes had been satisfied. As of June 30, 2008, the market price of the Companys common stock was not greater than the exercise price of the purchased call options or warrants related to the convertible senior notes. In June 2008, the Company issued $1.75 billion of debentures as a component of Equity Units. The Equity Units are a combination of (a) debt and (b) forward contracts for the holder to purchase the Companys common stock. The purchase contracts obligate the holder to purchase from the Company, no later than June 1, 2011, for a price of $50 in cash, a certain number of shares, ranging from 1.0453 shares to 1.2544 shares, of the Companys common stock, based on a formula established in the contract. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements In the normal course of business, the Company enters into contracts and commitments which obligate the Company to make payments in the future. The following table sets forth the Companys significant future obligations by time period. Purchases include commodity based contracts entered into in the normal course of business, which are further described in Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, energy related purchase contracts entered into in the normal course of business, and other purchase obligations related to the Companys normal business activities. Where applicable, information included in the Companys consolidated financial statements and notes is cross referenced in this table. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Payments Due by Period Contractual Note Less than 1 3 3 5 More than Obligations Reference Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years (In millions) Purchases Inventories $ 24,230 $ 22,813 $ 1,200 $ 174 $ 43 Energy 952 502 302 80 68 Other 148 58 60 18 12 Total purchases 25,330 23,373 1,562 272 123 Short term debt Note 7 3,123 3,123 Long term debt Note 7 7,993 232 358 380 7,023 Estimated interest payments 9,639 511 808 758 7,562 Operating leases Note 12 1,364 403 402 239 320 Estimated pension and other postretirement plan contributions Note 13 1,217 90 204 229 694 Total $ 48,666 $ 27,732 $ 3,334 $ 1,878 $ 15,722 At June 30, 2008, the Company estimates it will spend approximately $2.5 billion over the next five years to complete currently approved capital projects and acquisitions which is not included in the table above. The Company is a limited partner in various private equity funds which invest primarily in emerging markets. At June 30, 2008, the Companys carrying value of these limited partnership investments was $129 million. The Company has future capital commitments related to these partnerships of $137 million and expects the majority of these additional capital commitments, if called for, to be funded by cash flows generated by the partnerships. The Company also has outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds of $500 million at June 30, 2008. In addition, the Company has entered into agreements, primarily debt guarantee agreements related to equity method investees, which could obligate the Company to make future payments. The Companys liability under these agreements arises only if the primary entity fails to perform its contractual obligation. The Company has collateral for a portion of these contingent obligations. At June 30, 2008, these contingent obligations totaled approximately $135 million. Amounts outstanding for the primary entity under these contingent obligations were $62 million at June 30, 2008. Critical Accounting Policies The process of preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the carrying values of the Companys assets and liabilities as well as the recognition of revenues and expenses. These estimates and judgments are based on the Companys historical experience and managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Certain of the Companys accounting policies are considered critical, as these policies are important to the depiction of the Companys financial statements and require significant or complex judgment by management. Management has discussed with the Companys Audit Committee the development, selection, disclosure, and application of these critical accounting policies. Following are the accounting policies management considers critical to the Companys financial statements. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Inventories and Derivatives Certain of the Companys merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, forward fixed price purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts are valued at estimated market values. These merchandisable agricultural commodities are freely traded, have quoted market prices, and may be sold without significant additional processing. Management estimates market value based on exchange quoted prices, adjusted for differences in local markets. Changes in the market values of these inventories and contracts are recognized in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. If management used different methods or factors to estimate market value, amounts reported as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. Additionally, if market conditions change subsequent to year end, amounts reported in future periods as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. The Company, from time to time, uses derivative contracts designated as cash flow hedges to fix the purchase price of anticipated volumes of commodities to be purchased and processed in a future month, to fix the purchase price of the Companys anticipated natural gas requirements for certain production facilities, and to fix the sales price of anticipated volumes of ethanol. The change in the market value of such derivative contracts has historically been, and is expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. If it is determined that the derivative instruments used are no longer effective at offsetting changes in the price of the hedged item, then the changes in the market value of these exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts would be recorded in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. Employee Benefit Plans The Company provides substantially all domestic employees and employees at certain international subsidiaries with pension benefits. The Company also provides substantially all domestic salaried employees with postretirement health care and life insurance benefits. In order to measure the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans, management makes several estimates and assumptions, including interest rates used to discount certain liabilities, rates of return on assets set aside to fund these plans, rates of compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and anticipated future health care costs. These estimates and assumptions are based on the Companys historical experience combined with managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Management also uses third party actuaries to assist in measuring the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans. If management used different estimates and assumptions regarding these plans, the funded status of the plans could vary significantly, and the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Income Taxes The Company frequently faces challenges from domestic and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company records reserves for estimates of potential additional tax owed by the Company. Deferred tax assets represent items to be used as tax deductions or credits in future tax returns, and the related tax benefit has already been recognized in the Companys income statement. Realization of certain deferred tax assets reflects the Companys tax planning strategies. Valuation allowances related to these deferred tax assets have been established to the extent the realization of the tax benefit is not probable. Based on managements evaluation of the Companys tax position, it is believed the amounts related to these tax exposures are appropriately accrued. To the extent the Company were to favorably resolve matters for which accruals have been established or be required to pay amounts in excess of the aforementioned reserves, the Companys effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be impacted. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and affiliated corporate joint ventures accounted for on the equity method are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by unpredictable factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned unpredictable factors, therefore, may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and profitability of the Companys asset base in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its factories. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment, technology, and companies related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. The Company evaluates goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives for impairment annually. Assets are written down after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these assets, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Valuation of Marketable Securities and Investments in Affiliates The Company classifies the majority of its marketable securities as available for sale and carries these securities at fair value. Investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings and are adjusted, where appropriate, for amortizable basis differences between the investment balance and the underlying net assets of the investee. For publicly traded securities, the fair value of the Companys investments is readily available based on quoted market prices. For non publicly traded securities, managements assessment of fair value is based on valuation methodologies including discounted cash flows and estimates of sales proceeds. In the event of a decline in fair value of an investment below carrying value, management may be required to determine if the decline in fair value is other than temporary. In evaluating the nature of a decline in the fair value of an investment, management considers the market conditions, trends of earnings, discounted cash flows, trading volumes, and other key measures of the investment as well as the Companys ability and intent to hold the investment. When such a decline in value is deemed to be other than temporary, an impairment loss is recognized in the current period operating results to the extent of the decline. See Notes 3 and 5 to the Companys consolidated financial statements for information regarding the Companys marketable securities and investments in affiliates. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these marketable securities, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in: commodity market prices as they relate to the Companys net commodity position, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and price of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to unpredictable factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. To reduce price risk caused by market fluctuations, the Company generally follows a policy of using exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts to minimize its net position of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories and forward cash purchase and sales contracts. The Company will also use exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the volatility of the relationship between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contracts defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company from time to time enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. A sensitivity analysis has been prepared to estimate the Companys exposure to market risk of its daily net commodity position. The Companys daily net commodity position consists of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, related purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts, including those contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements. The fair value of such daily net commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing each net position at quoted futures prices. Market risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in such prices. Actual results may differ. 2008 2007 Long/(Short) Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest position $ 1,260 $ 126 $ 703 $ 70 Lowest position (915 ) (92 ) (565 ) (57 ) Average position 251 25 180 18 The change in fair value of the average position for 2008 compared to 2007 was principally a result of increases in commodity prices and, to a lesser extent, quantities underlying the daily net commodity position. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) Currencies In order to reduce the risk of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, except for amounts permanently invested as described below, the Company follows a policy of entering into currency exchange forward contracts to mitigate its foreign currency risk related to transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currencies applicable to each of its various entities. The instruments used are forward contracts, swaps with banks, and exchange traded futures contracts. The changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $7.0 billion at June 30, 2008, and $5.4 billion at June 30, 2007. This increase is due to an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and appreciation of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar. The potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $695 million and $543 million for 2008 and 2007, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical .5% decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2008 2007 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 7,789 $ 4,862 Excess of fair value over carrying value 99 110 Market risk 308 232 The increase in fair value of long term debt in 2008 resulted principally from the Companys issuance of approximately $3.1 billion in long term debt in 2008. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) The Companys Corn Processing operations and certain other food and animal feed processing operations also utilize agricultural commodities (or products derived from agricultural commodities) as raw materials. In these operations, agricultural commodity market price changes can result in significant fluctuations in cost of products sold, and such price changes cannot necessarily be passed directly through to the selling price of the finished products. The Company conducts its business in many countries. For the majority of the Companys subsidiaries located outside the United States, the local currency is the functional currency. Revenues and expenses denominated in foreign currencies are translated into U.S. dollars at the weighted average exchange rates for the applicable periods. Fluctuations in the exchange rates of foreign currencies, primarily the Euro, British pound, and Canadian dollar, as compared to the U.S. dollar will result in corresponding fluctuations in the U.S. dollar value of revenues and expenses reported by the Company. The impact of these currency exchange rate changes, where significant, is discussed below. The Company measures the performance of its business segments using key operating statistics such as segment operating profit, return on fixed capital investment, return on equity, return on net assets, and cost per metric ton produced. The Companys operating results can vary significantly due to changes in unpredictable factors such as fluctuations in energy prices, weather conditions, crop plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. Due to these unpredictable factors, the Company does not provide forward looking information in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 2008 Compared to 2007 As an agricultural based commodity business, the Company is subject to a variety of market factors which affect the Companys operating results. Strong demand for agricultural commodities and processed products has challenged the global supply chain and provided exceptional margin opportunities in 2008. Strong global demand for protein meal and vegetable oil and strong fertilizer demand in South America positively impacted Oilseeds Processing results. The market price of corn rose due to increased demand, resulting in higher raw material costs for Corn Processing which were only partially passed on in the form of increased selling prices for sweeteners and starches. Average ethanol selling prices decreased due to additional supply entering the market. Large North American crops combined with global wheat shortages created favorable conditions in agricultural merchandising and handling operations. Increased commodity costs resulted in larger LIFO inventory valuation reserves. Earnings before income taxes decreased due principally to gains totaling $1.0 billion before income tax on business disposals recorded in 2007 including $440 million related to the exchange of the Companys interest in certain Asian joint ventures for shares of Wilmar International Limited (the Wilmar gain), a $357 million realized securities gain from sales of the Companys equity securities of Tyson Foods, Inc. and Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc., a gain of $153 million from the sale of the Companys interest in Agricore United, and a $53 million gain from the sale of the Companys Arkady food ingredient business. Earnings before income taxes for 2008 include a charge of $569 million from the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations, compared to a charge of $207 million in 2007. Earnings before income taxes for 2008 also include a $32 million charge related to abandonment and write down of long lived assets, a $38 million gain on sales of securities, and a $21 million gain on the disposal of long lived assets. Earnings before income taxes for 2007 include charges of $46 million related to the repurchase of $400 million of the Companys outstanding debentures and $21 million related to abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Analysis of Statements of Earnings Net sales and other operating income increased 59% to $69.8 billion. Increased selling prices of agricultural commodities and oilseed processing products and, to a lesser extent, corn processing products and wheat flour accounted for 85% of the increase and higher sales volumes, principally of agricultural commodities, ethanol, and biodiesel, also contributed to the increase in net sales. In addition, net sales and other operating income increased $1.83 billion, or 4%, due to currency rate fluctuations. Net sales and other operating income by segment are as follows: 2008 2007 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing & Origination $ 14,477 $ 8,036 $ 6,441 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel & Other 8,588 5,758 2,830 Asia 214 149 65 Total Oilseeds Processing 23,279 13,943 9,336 Corn Processing Sweeteners & Starches 3,546 2,761 785 Bioproducts 3,591 3,064 527 Total Corn Processing 7,137 5,825 1,312 Agricultural Services Merchandising & Handling 33,749 20,222 13,527 Transportation 219 197 22 Total Agricultural Services 33,968 20,419 13,549 Other Wheat, Cocoa, & Malt 5,335 3,738 1,597 Financial 97 93 4 Total Other 5,432 3,831 1,601 Total $ 69,816 $ 44,018 $ 25,798 Oilseeds Processing sales increased 67% to $23.3 billion due principally to increased average selling prices resulting primarily from increases in underlying commodity costs and from continuing strong demand for vegetable oil, biodiesel and protein meal. Sales volumes of vegetable oil, protein meal and biodiesel also increased. Corn Processing sales increased 23% to $7.1 billion. Good demand for sweeteners and starches resulted in higher average selling prices. Bioproducts sales increased primarily as a result of increased ethanol sales volumes partially offset by lower average ethanol selling prices. Increased ethanol sales volumes reflect higher gasoline prices, improved gasoline blending economics and additional demand, principally from newly opened markets in the southeastern United States. Agricultural Services sales increased 66% to $34.0 billion primarily due to increased underlying commodity costs, and to a lesser extent, increased sales volumes. Sales in the Other segment increased 42% to $5.4 billion primarily due to higher average selling prices of wheat flour and, to a lesser extent, higher sales volumes and higher average selling prices of cocoa products. Cost of products sold increased 62% to $66.0 billion primarily due to higher agricultural commodity costs, and, to a lesser extent, higher sales volumes. Manufacturing expenses increased $549 million primarily due to higher energy and transportation fuel costs, increased employee related costs, higher storage and handling costs, increased production capacity, and the impact of foreign currency translation. In addition, cost of products sold increased $1.75 billion, or 4%, due to currency rate fluctuations. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $224 million to $1.4 billion primarily due to higher employee related costs and higher outside service costs, including $44 million related to an organizational realignment and reorganization of the companys European headquarters, and increased $37 million due to the impact of currency rate fluctuations. Other income net decreased $911 million primarily due to gains totaling $1.0 billion on business disposals recorded in 2007 including $440 million related to the Wilmar gain, $357 million realized securities gain from sales of the Companys equity securities of Tyson Foods, Inc. and Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc., a gain of $153 million from the sale of the Companys interest in Agricore United, and a $53 million gain from the sale of the Companys Arkady food ingredient business. Equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates increased $121 million in 2008, primarily related to improved operating results of the Companys investments in U.S. grain export, Asian oilseeds and peanut processing ventures. Other income net also reflects $38 million in gains on sales of securities in 2008, $21 million in gains on disposals of long lived assets in 2008, an increase from 2007 to 2008 of $11 million in charges related to abandonment and write down of long lived assets, and a charge of $46 million related to the repurchase of $400 million of the Companys outstanding debentures in 2007. Operating profit by segment is as follows: 2008 2007 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing & Origination $ 727 $ 414 $ 313 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel & Other 181 202 (21 ) Asia 132 523 (391 ) Total Oilseeds Processing 1,040 1,139 (99 ) Corn Processing Sweeteners & Starches 529 509 20 Bioproducts 432 596 (164 ) Total Corn Processing 961 1,105 (144 ) Agricultural Services Merchandising & Handling 873 382 491 Transportation 144 156 (12 ) Total Agricultural Services 1,017 538 479 Other Wheat, Cocoa, & Malt 217 209 8 Financial 206 170 36 Total Other 423 379 44 Total Segment Operating Profit 3,441 3,161 280 Corporate (817 ) (7 ) (810 ) Earnings Before Income Taxes $ 2,624 $ 3,154 $ (530 ) Oilseeds Processing operating profit decreased 9% to $1.0 billion. Excluding the $440 million Wilmar gain reflected in Asia results in 2007, Oilseeds Processing operating profit increased 49%, primarily due to strong global demand for protein meal, vegetable oil, and fertilizer. Crushing and Origination operating profits increased 76% to $727 million due principally to improved crushing margins in North and South America and improved fertilizer results in South America. Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel and Other operating profits decreased 10% to $181 million due principally to decreased biodiesel margins in Europe and asset impairment charges of $28 million in 2008, partially offset by improved global refining margins. 2007 operating profit for Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel and Other includes a $14 million gain on a business disposal. Excluding the Wilmar gain, Asia operating profits increased 59% to $132 million, principally reflecting the Companys share of improved operating profits of Wilmar International Limited. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Corn Processing operating profits decreased 13% to $961 million, primarily due to higher net corn costs. Sweeteners and Starches operating profits of $529 were relatively unchanged as higher average selling prices were offset by higher net corn costs and increased manufacturing costs. Manufacturing cost increases reflect higher energy costs, higher repair and maintenance expenses, and higher costs for chemicals used in the manufacturing process. Bioproducts operating profits decreased 28% to $432 million primarily due to higher net corn costs, higher manufacturing expenses, and decreased average ethanol selling prices, partially offset by higher sales volumes for ethanol and, to a lesser extent, higher average lysine selling prices and higher lysine sales volumes. Agricultural Services operating profits increased 89% to $1.0 billion. 2007 operating profits in Merchandising and Handling include a $153 million gain on the sale of the Companys interest in Agricore United. Excluding this gain, Merchandising and Handling operating profits increased 281% to $873 million. This increase was primarily due to enhanced merchandising and handling margins caused by volatile global grain and freight markets, favorable risk management results, and to a lesser extent, increased sales volumes. Transportation operating profits decreased 8% to $144 million primarily due to increased fuel costs. Other operating profits increased 12% to $423 million. Wheat, Cocoa and Malt operating profits increased 4% to $217 million. 2007 operating profits for Wheat included a gain of $39 million from the sale of the Companys Arkady food ingredient business. Excluding the Arkady gain, Wheat, Cocoa and Malt operating profits improved 28%, primarily due to improved wheat and malt margins reflecting increased demand, partially offset by decreased cocoa processing margins reflecting higher raw material and operating costs and competitive pressures experienced in the North American chocolate market. Financial operating profits improved 21% to $206 million primarily due to improvements in the Companys futures commission merchant business. Corporate expense increased $810 million to $817 million, primarily due to a $362 million increase in the charge related to the effects of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations, a $371 million decrease in realized securities gains primarily reflecting the $357 million gain recorded in 2007 from sales of the Companys equity securities of Tyson Foods, Inc. and Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc., a $51 million increase in corporate expenses due principally to reorganization and realignment costs, partially offset by a charge of $46 million recorded in 2007 related to the repurchase of $400 million of the Companys outstanding debentures. Income taxes decreased primarily due to lower pretax earnings. The Companys effective tax rate during 2008 of 31.3% was comparable to the 2007 rate of 31.5%. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) 2007 Compared to 2006 As an agricultural based commodity business, the Company is subject to a variety of market factors which affect the Companys operating results. Strong biodiesel demand in Europe continued to create increased vegetable oil demand and positively impacted rapeseed crushing margins in Europe. Abundant oilseed supplies, improved vegetable oil values, and strong protein meal demand have positively impacted oilseed crushing margins in North America. Increased ethanol contracted selling prices, continuing strong ethanol demand, and solid demand for sweetener and starch products improved corn processing results. These increases in corn processing results were partially offset by higher net corn costs. Global grain merchandising opportunities resulting from regional production imbalances also improved operating results. North American river transportation operations were favorably impacted by strong demand for river transportation services which increased barge freight rates. Increasing commodity price levels resulted in larger LIFO inventory valuation reserves. Net earnings increased due principally to improved operating results in all of the Companys operating segments. Earnings before income taxes for 2007 include a gain of $440 million related to the exchange of the Companys interests in certain Asian joint ventures for shares of Wilmar International Limited (the Wilmar Gain), a $357 million realized securities gain from sales of the Companys equity securities of Tyson Foods, Inc. and Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc., a gain of $153 million from the sale of the Companys interest in Agricore United and a $53 million gain from the sale of the Companys Arkady food ingredient business. Earnings before income taxes for 2007 also include charges of $207 million from the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations, $46 million related to the repurchase of $400 million of the Companys outstanding debentures, and $21 million related to abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Net earnings for 2006 include a $36 million reduction in income tax expense related to the recognition of federal and state income tax credits and adjustments resulting from the reconciliation of filed tax returns to the previously estimated tax provision. Earnings before income taxes for 2006 include charges of $15 million resulting from the Companys adoption of Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation No. 47, Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations, an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 143 (FIN 47), $71 million related to abandonment and write down of long lived assets, $9 million representing the Companys share of a charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets reported by an unconsolidated affiliate of the Company, and $22 million associated with the closure of a citric acid plant and exiting the European animal feed business. Earnings before income taxes for 2006 also include credits of $12 million from the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations, $17 million from the sale of long lived assets, $46 million related to Brazilian transactional tax credits, and $40 million related to realized securities gains. Analysis of Statements of Earnings Net sales and other operating income increased 20% to $44.0 billion due primarily to increased selling prices of agricultural commodities, oilseed and corn processing products and, to a lesser extent, increased sales volumes of agricultural commodities and oilseed processing products. In addition, net sales and other operating income increased $916 million, or 3%, due to currency exchange rate fluctuations. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Net sales and other operating income by segment are as follows: 2007 2006 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing & Origination $ 8,036 $ 7,048 $ 988 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel & Other 5,758 4,726 1,032 Asia 149 119 30 Total Oilseeds Processing 13,943 11,893 2,050 Corn Processing Sweeteners & Starches 2,761 2,529 232 Bioproducts 3,064 2,727 337 Total Corn Processing 5,825 5,256 569 Agricultural Services Merchandising & Handling 20,222 15,954 4,268 Transportation 197 201 (4 ) Total Agricultural Services 20,419 16,155 4,264 Other Wheat, Cocoa, & Malt 3,738 3,217 521 Financial 93 75 18 Total Other 3,831 3,292 539 Total $ 44,018 $ 36,596 $ 7,422 Oilseeds Processing sales increased 17% to $13.9 billion due principally to increased average selling prices of vegetable oil and increased sales volumes of vegetable oil and biodiesel. Vegetable oil selling prices and volumes improved as the markets anticipated new demand from the developing United States biodiesel industry. Biodiesel sales volumes increased due to additional production capacity. Corn Processing sales increased 11% to $5.8 billion due principally to increased sales of Bioproducts and, to a lesser extent, increased sales of Sweeteners and Starches. Bioproducts sales increased primarily due to higher average selling prices of ethanol, partially offset by lower sales volumes. Ethanol average selling prices increased primarily due to higher gasoline prices. Ethanol sales volumes decreased as 2006 sales volumes exceeded production due to the release of inventories built up in anticipation of refiners replacing MTBE with ethanol. Sweeteners and Starches sales increased primarily due to higher average selling prices resulting from good demand for sweetener and starch products. Agricultural Services sales increased 26% to $20.4 billion due principally to increased agricultural commodity prices and increased sales volumes. The increase in commodity prices was primarily due to higher average market prices of corn in North America which had increased 60% from the prior year. Increased sales volumes of global grain merchandising activities also contributed to the increase in Agricultural Services sales. Other sales increased 16% to $3.8 billion primarily due to higher average selling prices of wheat flour products and, to a lesser extent, increased sales volumes and higher average selling prices of cocoa products. Cost of products sold increased 21% to $40.8 billion primarily due to higher average costs of agricultural commodities and increased sales volumes. Manufacturing costs for 2007 and 2006 include a $21 million and $62 million charge, respectively, for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. In addition, cost of products sold increased $874 million, or 3%, due to currency exchange rate fluctuations. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Selling, general, and administrative expenses of $1.2 billion were comparable to 2006 and included $25 million of currency exchange rate increases. Excluding the impact of currency exchange rate increases, selling, general and administrative expenses decreased $23 million due principally to 2006 selling, general and administrative expenses including $20 million of severance costs associated with the closure of a citric acid plant. During 2007 and 2006, the Company issued option grants and restricted stock awards to officers and key employees pursuant to the Companys Long term Management Incentive Program. Certain officers and key employees of the Company receiving option grants and restricted stock awards were eligible for retirement. Compensation expense related to option grants and restricted stock awards issued to these retirement eligible employees is recognized in earnings on the date of grant. Selling, general, and administrative expense for 2007 and 2006 includes compensation expense related to option grants and restricted stock awards granted to retirement eligible employees of $30 million and $31 million, respectively. Other income net increased $1.0 billion primarily due to the $440 million Wilmar Gain, a $357 million gain on the sale of the Companys equity securities of Tyson Foods, Inc. and Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc., a $153 million gain on the sale of the Companys interest in Agricore United, and a $53 million gain on the sale of the Companys Arkady food ingredient business. Other income net also includes a $46 million charge related to the repurchase of $400 million of the Companys outstanding debentures in 2007. Excluding these items, other income net increased $73 million primarily due to a $120 million increase in equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates, and a $53 million increase in investment income, partially offset by a $69 million increase in interest expense and a $27 million reduction in gains on sales of long lived assets. The increase in equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates was primarily due to higher valuations of the Companys private equity fund investments and improved operating results of the Companys Asian oilseed ventures. Interest expense and investment income increased primarily due to increased average borrowing and investment levels. Operating profit by segment is as follows: 2007 2006 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing & Origination $ 414 $ 376 $ 38 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel & Other 202 140 62 Asia 523 53 470 Total Oilseeds Processing 1,139 569 570 Corn Processing Sweeteners & Starches 509 458 51 Bioproducts 596 443 153 Total Corn Processing 1,105 901 204 Agricultural Services Merchandising & Handling 382 94 288 Transportation 156 143 13 Total Agricultural Services 538 237 301 Other Wheat, Cocoa, & Malt 209 228 (19 ) Financial 170 126 44 Total Other 379 354 25 Total Segment Operating Profit 3,161 2,061 1,100 Corporate (7 ) (206 ) 199 Earnings Before Income Taxes $ 3,154 $ 1,855 $ 1,299 Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Oilseeds Processing operating profits increased $570 million to $1.1 billion due principally to the $440 million Wilmar Gain and improved market conditions in all geographic regions. North American processing results improved due principally to abundant oilseed supplies in the United States and good demand for vegetable oil and soybean meal. Vegetable oil values improved as the markets anticipated new demand from the developing United States biodiesel industry. North American processing results were also favorably impacted by lower plant operating costs resulting from improved capacity utilization. Asian joint venture results improved due to improved palm processing operating results partially offset by decreased soy crushing operating results. European processing results improved due principally to abundant oilseed supplies in Europe and strong demand for vegetable oil. The strong demand for vegetable oil is the result of strong biodiesel demand. These increases were partially offset by decreased biodiesel operating profits resulting from higher vegetable oil prices, increased market production capacity, and lower diesel fuel prices. South American processing results declined due principally to the $27 million credit for Brazilian transactional taxes in 2006. Excluding the impact of the credit for Brazilian transactional taxes, South American processing results improved due principally to increased fertilizer margins. The improvement in fertilizer margins was primarily due to higher average sales prices due to improved fertilizer demand combined with stable raw material costs. Operating profits for 2007 include a $6 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Operating profits for 2006 include a $14 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets and a $6 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47. Corn Processing operating profits increased $204 million to $1.1 billion due principally to higher average selling prices and lower energy costs, partially offset by lower ethanol sales volumes and higher net corn costs. Net corn costs increased approximately 60% during 2007 due to significant anticipated demand increases for corn resulting primarily from increasing corn derived ethanol industry capacity. Agricultural commodity market concerns regarding the expected decline in the ending 2006 corn crop carryover also contributed to the increase in corn costs. Sweeteners and Starches operating profits increased $51 million primarily due to higher average sales prices and lower energy costs. Sales prices increased due principally to good demand for sweetener and starch products. These increases were partially offset by increased net corn costs. Sweeteners and Starches operating profits for 2006 include a $5 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47. Bioproducts operating profits increased $153 million primarily due to higher ethanol average selling prices and lower energy costs, partially offset by increased net corn costs and lower ethanol sales volumes. Ethanol average sales prices increased due principally to strong demand from gasoline refiners and higher gasoline prices. Ethanol sales volumes decreased as 2006 sales volumes exceeded production due to the release of inventories built up in anticipation of refiners replacing MTBE with ethanol. Bioproducts operating results for 2007 include a $1 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Bioproducts operating results for 2006 include a $6 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets, a $2 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47, and $6 million of costs related to the closure of a citric acid plant. Agricultural Services operating profits increased $301 million to $538 million due principally to a $153 million gain from the sale of the Companys interest in Agricore United, a Canadian business which specialized in crop input, crop protection services, and grain marketing and merchandising. Excluding the Agricore United gain, Agricultural Services operating profits increased $148 million to $385 million due principally to improved global grain merchandising operating results and, to a lesser extent, improved transportation and North American origination operating results. Global grain merchandising results improved as regional production imbalances allowed the Company to capitalize on merchandising opportunities. North American river transportation operating results increased primarily due to increased barge freight rates created by strong demand for barge capacity. North American origination operating results improved due to good export demand for agricultural commodities and higher ocean freight rates. Agricultural Services operating profits for 2007 include a $12 million trade disruption insurance recovery related to Hurricane Katrina. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Other operating profits increased $25 million to $379 million. Wheat, Cocoa, and Malt operating profits decreased $19 million. Wheat operating profits include a $39 million gain on the sale of the Companys Arkady food ingredient business in 2007 and a $17 million gain from the sale of long lived assets in 2006. Excluding the effect of these one time gains, Wheat, Cocoa, and Malt operating profits declined $41 million primarily due to cocoa operating results declining from prior year levels and to a lesser extent, weaker equity earnings from our investment in Gruma S.A. partially offset by improved operating results of the Companys wheat flour processing operations. Cocoa processing operating results declined primarily due to increased industry production capacity which caused downward pressure on cocoa processing margins. Financial operating profits increased $44 million due principally to increased valuations of the Companys private equity fund investments and higher operating results of the Companys futures commission merchant business, partially offset by lower operating results of the Companys captive insurance operations. The results of the Companys captive insurance operations for 2007 include a $12 million charge related to a Hurricane Katrina trade disruption insurance settlement. Corporate expense decreased $199 million to $7 million due principally to a $345 million increase in realized securities gains principally resulting from sales of the Companys equity securities of Tyson Foods, Inc. and Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc. and a $103 million reduction in unallocated interest expense due principally to higher levels of invested funds and higher interest rates. These decreases were partially offset by a $207 million charge, compared to a $12 million credit in the prior year, related to the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations and a $46 million charge related to the repurchase of $400 million of the Companys outstanding debentures. Income taxes increased due principally to higher pretax earnings and the absence of a $36 million income tax credit in 2006 related to the recognition of federal and state income tax credits and adjustments resulting from the reconciliation of filed tax returns to the previously estimated tax provision. The Companys effective tax rate during 2007 was 31.5% and, after excluding the effect of the 2006 $36 million tax credit, was 31.2% for the prior year. The increase in the Companys effective tax rate was primarily due to changes in the geographic mix of pretax earnings. Liquidity and Capital Resources A Company objective is to have sufficient liquidity, balance sheet strength, and financial flexibility to fund the operating and capital requirements of a capital intensive agricultural based commodity business. At June 30, 2008, the Company had $1.3 billion of cash, cash equivalents, and short term marketable securities and a current ratio, defined as current assets divided by current liabilities, of 1.7 to 1. Included in working capital is $7.8 billion of readily marketable commodity inventories. Cash used in operating activities totaled $3.2 billion for the year compared to $303 million cash generated from operations last year. This change was primarily due to an increase in working capital requirements principally related to increased market prices and, to a lesser extent, increased quantities of agricultural commodity inventories, principally readily marketable commodity inventories, and increased receivables. Cash used in investing activities increased $1.5 billion for the year to $1.9 billion primarily due to increased capital expenditures and decreased proceeds from sales of businesses including the sale of the Companys equity interests in Tyson Foods, Inc., Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc. and Agricore United in 2007. Cash generated by financing activities was $5.2 billion compared to cash used in financing activities of $398 million last year. Net long term borrowings increased primarily as a result of the issuance in 2008 of approximately $3.1 billion of additional long term debt, including $500 million of debentures issued in December 2007, $700 million of notes issued in March 2008, and $1.75 billion of debentures in June 2008, compared to $1.15 billion of convertible senior notes issued in February 2007, partially offset by $480 million of reduced debt payments principally related to the Companys retirement of $400 million of debentures in 2007. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Capital resources were strengthened in 2008 as shown by the increase in the Companys net worth from $11.3 billion to $13.5 billion. The Companys ratio of long term debt to total capital (the sum of the Companys long term debt and shareholders equity) was 36% at June 30, 2008, and 30% at June 30, 2007. This ratio is a measure of the Companys long term liquidity and is an indicator of financial flexibility. The Company currently has $7.4 billion of commercial paper and commercial bank lines available to meet seasonal cash requirements of which $5.2 billion are committed and $2.2 billion are uncommitted. At June 30, 2008, the Company had $3.1 billion of short term debt outstanding. Standard & Poors, Moodys, and Fitch rate the Companys commercial paper as A 1, P 1, and F1, respectively, and rate the Companys long term debt as A, A2, and A, respectively. In addition to the cash flow generated from operations, the Company has access to equity and debt capital through numerous alternatives from public and private sources in domestic and international markets. The Company has outstanding $1.15 billion principal amount of convertible senior notes. As of June 30, 2008, none of the conditions permitting conversion of the notes had been satisfied. As of June 30, 2008, the market price of the Companys common stock was not greater than the exercise price of the purchased call options or warrants related to the convertible senior notes. In June 2008, the Company issued $1.75 billion of debentures as a component of Equity Units. The Equity Units are a combination of (a) debt and (b) forward contracts for the holder to purchase the Companys common stock. The purchase contracts obligate the holder to purchase from the Company, no later than June 1, 2011, for a price of $50 in cash, a certain number of shares, ranging from 1.0453 shares to 1.2544 shares, of the Companys common stock, based on a formula established in the contract. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements In the normal course of business, the Company enters into contracts and commitments which obligate the Company to make payments in the future. The following table sets forth the Companys significant future obligations by time period. Purchases include commodity based contracts entered into in the normal course of business, which are further described in Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, energy related purchase contracts entered into in the normal course of business, and other purchase obligations related to the Companys normal business activities. Where applicable, information included in the Companys consolidated financial statements and notes is cross referenced in this table. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Payments Due by Period Contractual Note Less than 1 3 3 5 More than Obligations Reference Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years (In millions) Purchases Inventories $ 24,230 $ 22,813 $ 1,200 $ 174 $ 43 Energy 952 502 302 80 68 Other 148 58 60 18 12 Total purchases 25,330 23,373 1,562 272 123 Short term debt Note 7 3,123 3,123 Long term debt Note 7 7,993 232 358 380 7,023 Estimated interest payments 9,639 511 808 758 7,562 Operating leases Note 12 1,364 403 402 239 320 Estimated pension and other postretirement plan contributions Note 13 1,217 90 204 229 694 Total $ 48,666 $ 27,732 $ 3,334 $ 1,878 $ 15,722 At June 30, 2008, the Company estimates it will spend approximately $2.5 billion over the next five years to complete currently approved capital projects and acquisitions which is not included in the table above. The Company is a limited partner in various private equity funds which invest primarily in emerging markets. At June 30, 2008, the Companys carrying value of these limited partnership investments was $129 million. The Company has future capital commitments related to these partnerships of $137 million and expects the majority of these additional capital commitments, if called for, to be funded by cash flows generated by the partnerships. The Company also has outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds of $500 million at June 30, 2008. In addition, the Company has entered into agreements, primarily debt guarantee agreements related to equity method investees, which could obligate the Company to make future payments. The Companys liability under these agreements arises only if the primary entity fails to perform its contractual obligation. The Company has collateral for a portion of these contingent obligations. At June 30, 2008, these contingent obligations totaled approximately $135 million. Amounts outstanding for the primary entity under these contingent obligations were $62 million at June 30, 2008. Critical Accounting Policies The process of preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the carrying values of the Companys assets and liabilities as well as the recognition of revenues and expenses. These estimates and judgments are based on the Companys historical experience and managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Certain of the Companys accounting policies are considered critical, as these policies are important to the depiction of the Companys financial statements and require significant or complex judgment by management. Management has discussed with the Companys Audit Committee the development, selection, disclosure, and application of these critical accounting policies. Following are the accounting policies management considers critical to the Companys financial statements. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Inventories and Derivatives Certain of the Companys merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, forward fixed price purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts are valued at estimated market values. These merchandisable agricultural commodities are freely traded, have quoted market prices, and may be sold without significant additional processing. Management estimates market value based on exchange quoted prices, adjusted for differences in local markets. Changes in the market values of these inventories and contracts are recognized in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. If management used different methods or factors to estimate market value, amounts reported as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. Additionally, if market conditions change subsequent to year end, amounts reported in future periods as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. The Company, from time to time, uses derivative contracts designated as cash flow hedges to fix the purchase price of anticipated volumes of commodities to be purchased and processed in a future month, to fix the purchase price of the Companys anticipated natural gas requirements for certain production facilities, and to fix the sales price of anticipated volumes of ethanol. The change in the market value of such derivative contracts has historically been, and is expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. If it is determined that the derivative instruments used are no longer effective at offsetting changes in the price of the hedged item, then the changes in the market value of these exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts would be recorded in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. Employee Benefit Plans The Company provides substantially all domestic employees and employees at certain international subsidiaries with pension benefits. The Company also provides substantially all domestic salaried employees with postretirement health care and life insurance benefits. In order to measure the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans, management makes several estimates and assumptions, including interest rates used to discount certain liabilities, rates of return on assets set aside to fund these plans, rates of compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and anticipated future health care costs. These estimates and assumptions are based on the Companys historical experience combined with managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Management also uses third party actuaries to assist in measuring the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans. If management used different estimates and assumptions regarding these plans, the funded status of the plans could vary significantly, and the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Income Taxes The Company frequently faces challenges from domestic and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company records reserves for estimates of potential additional tax owed by the Company. Deferred tax assets represent items to be used as tax deductions or credits in future tax returns, and the related tax benefit has already been recognized in the Companys income statement. Realization of certain deferred tax assets reflects the Companys tax planning strategies. Valuation allowances related to these deferred tax assets have been established to the extent the realization of the tax benefit is not probable. Based on managements evaluation of the Companys tax position, it is believed the amounts related to these tax exposures are appropriately accrued. To the extent the Company were to favorably resolve matters for which accruals have been established or be required to pay amounts in excess of the aforementioned reserves, the Companys effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be impacted. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and affiliated corporate joint ventures accounted for on the equity method are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by unpredictable factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned unpredictable factors, therefore, may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and profitability of the Companys asset base in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its factories. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment, technology, and companies related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. The Company evaluates goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives for impairment annually. Assets are written down after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these assets, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Valuation of Marketable Securities and Investments in Affiliates The Company classifies the majority of its marketable securities as available for sale and carries these securities at fair value. Investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings and are adjusted, where appropriate, for amortizable basis differences between the investment balance and the underlying net assets of the investee. For publicly traded securities, the fair value of the Companys investments is readily available based on quoted market prices. For non publicly traded securities, managements assessment of fair value is based on valuation methodologies including discounted cash flows and estimates of sales proceeds. In the event of a decline in fair value of an investment below carrying value, management may be required to determine if the decline in fair value is other than temporary. In evaluating the nature of a decline in the fair value of an investment, management considers the market conditions, trends of earnings, discounted cash flows, trading volumes, and other key measures of the investment as well as the Companys ability and intent to hold the investment. When such a decline in value is deemed to be other than temporary, an impairment loss is recognized in the current period operating results to the extent of the decline. See Notes 3 and 5 to the Companys consolidated financial statements for information regarding the Companys marketable securities and investments in affiliates. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these marketable securities, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in: commodity market prices as they relate to the Companys net commodity position, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and price of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to unpredictable factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. To reduce price risk caused by market fluctuations, the Company generally follows a policy of using exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts to minimize its net position of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories and forward cash purchase and sales contracts. The Company will also use exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the volatility of the relationship between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contracts defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company from time to time enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. A sensitivity analysis has been prepared to estimate the Companys exposure to market risk of its daily net commodity position. The Companys daily net commodity position consists of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, related purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts, including those contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements. The fair value of such daily net commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing each net position at quoted futures prices. Market risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in such prices. Actual results may differ. 2008 2007 Long/(Short) Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest position $ 1,260 $ 126 $ 703 $ 70 Lowest position (915 ) (92 ) (565 ) (57 ) Average position 251 25 180 18 The change in fair value of the average position for 2008 compared to 2007 was principally a result of increases in commodity prices and, to a lesser extent, quantities underlying the daily net commodity position. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) Currencies In order to reduce the risk of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, except for amounts permanently invested as described below, the Company follows a policy of entering into currency exchange forward contracts to mitigate its foreign currency risk related to transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currencies applicable to each of its various entities. The instruments used are forward contracts, swaps with banks, and exchange traded futures contracts. The changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $7.0 billion at June 30, 2008, and $5.4 billion at June 30, 2007. This increase is due to an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and appreciation of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar. The potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $695 million and $543 million for 2008 and 2007, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical .5% decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2008 2007 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 7,789 $ 4,862 Excess of fair value over carrying value 99 110 Market risk 308 232 The increase in fair value of long term debt in 2008 resulted principally from the Companys issuance of approximately $3.1 billion in long term debt in 2008. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Analysis of Statements of Earnings Net sales and other operating income increased 59% to $69.8 billion. Increased selling prices of agricultural commodities and oilseed processing products and, to a lesser extent, corn processing products and wheat flour accounted for 85% of the increase and higher sales volumes, principally of agricultural commodities, ethanol, and biodiesel, also contributed to the increase in net sales. In addition, net sales and other operating income increased $1.83 billion, or 4%, due to currency rate fluctuations. Net sales and other operating income by segment are as follows: 2008 2007 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing & Origination $ 14,477 $ 8,036 $ 6,441 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel & Other 8,588 5,758 2,830 Asia 214 149 65 Total Oilseeds Processing 23,279 13,943 9,336 Corn Processing Sweeteners & Starches 3,546 2,761 785 Bioproducts 3,591 3,064 527 Total Corn Processing 7,137 5,825 1,312 Agricultural Services Merchandising & Handling 33,749 20,222 13,527 Transportation 219 197 22 Total Agricultural Services 33,968 20,419 13,549 Other Wheat, Cocoa, & Malt 5,335 3,738 1,597 Financial 97 93 4 Total Other 5,432 3,831 1,601 Total $ 69,816 $ 44,018 $ 25,798 Oilseeds Processing sales increased 67% to $23.3 billion due principally to increased average selling prices resulting primarily from increases in underlying commodity costs and from continuing strong demand for vegetable oil, biodiesel and protein meal. Sales volumes of vegetable oil, protein meal and biodiesel also increased. Corn Processing sales increased 23% to $7.1 billion. Good demand for sweeteners and starches resulted in higher average selling prices. Bioproducts sales increased primarily as a result of increased ethanol sales volumes partially offset by lower average ethanol selling prices. Increased ethanol sales volumes reflect higher gasoline prices, improved gasoline blending economics and additional demand, principally from newly opened markets in the southeastern United States. Agricultural Services sales increased 66% to $34.0 billion primarily due to increased underlying commodity costs, and to a lesser extent, increased sales volumes. Sales in the Other segment increased 42% to $5.4 billion primarily due to higher average selling prices of wheat flour and, to a lesser extent, higher sales volumes and higher average selling prices of cocoa products. Cost of products sold increased 62% to $66.0 billion primarily due to higher agricultural commodity costs, and, to a lesser extent, higher sales volumes. Manufacturing expenses increased $549 million primarily due to higher energy and transportation fuel costs, increased employee related costs, higher storage and handling costs, increased production capacity, and the impact of foreign currency translation. In addition, cost of products sold increased $1.75 billion, or 4%, due to currency rate fluctuations. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $224 million to $1.4 billion primarily due to higher employee related costs and higher outside service costs, including $44 million related to an organizational realignment and reorganization of the companys European headquarters, and increased $37 million due to the impact of currency rate fluctuations. Other income net decreased $911 million primarily due to gains totaling $1.0 billion on business disposals recorded in 2007 including $440 million related to the Wilmar gain, $357 million realized securities gain from sales of the Companys equity securities of Tyson Foods, Inc. and Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc., a gain of $153 million from the sale of the Companys interest in Agricore United, and a $53 million gain from the sale of the Companys Arkady food ingredient business. Equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates increased $121 million in 2008, primarily related to improved operating results of the Companys investments in U.S. grain export, Asian oilseeds and peanut processing ventures. Other income net also reflects $38 million in gains on sales of securities in 2008, $21 million in gains on disposals of long lived assets in 2008, an increase from 2007 to 2008 of $11 million in charges related to abandonment and write down of long lived assets, and a charge of $46 million related to the repurchase of $400 million of the Companys outstanding debentures in 2007. Operating profit by segment is as follows: 2008 2007 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing & Origination $ 727 $ 414 $ 313 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel & Other 181 202 (21 ) Asia 132 523 (391 ) Total Oilseeds Processing 1,040 1,139 (99 ) Corn Processing Sweeteners & Starches 529 509 20 Bioproducts 432 596 (164 ) Total Corn Processing 961 1,105 (144 ) Agricultural Services Merchandising & Handling 873 382 491 Transportation 144 156 (12 ) Total Agricultural Services 1,017 538 479 Other Wheat, Cocoa, & Malt 217 209 8 Financial 206 170 36 Total Other 423 379 44 Total Segment Operating Profit 3,441 3,161 280 Corporate (817 ) (7 ) (810 ) Earnings Before Income Taxes $ 2,624 $ 3,154 $ (530 ) Oilseeds Processing operating profit decreased 9% to $1.0 billion. Excluding the $440 million Wilmar gain reflected in Asia results in 2007, Oilseeds Processing operating profit increased 49%, primarily due to strong global demand for protein meal, vegetable oil, and fertilizer. Crushing and Origination operating profits increased 76% to $727 million due principally to improved crushing margins in North and South America and improved fertilizer results in South America. Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel and Other operating profits decreased 10% to $181 million due principally to decreased biodiesel margins in Europe and asset impairment charges of $28 million in 2008, partially offset by improved global refining margins. 2007 operating profit for Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel and Other includes a $14 million gain on a business disposal. Excluding the Wilmar gain, Asia operating profits increased 59% to $132 million, principally reflecting the Companys share of improved operating profits of Wilmar International Limited. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Corn Processing operating profits decreased 13% to $961 million, primarily due to higher net corn costs. Sweeteners and Starches operating profits of $529 were relatively unchanged as higher average selling prices were offset by higher net corn costs and increased manufacturing costs. Manufacturing cost increases reflect higher energy costs, higher repair and maintenance expenses, and higher costs for chemicals used in the manufacturing process. Bioproducts operating profits decreased 28% to $432 million primarily due to higher net corn costs, higher manufacturing expenses, and decreased average ethanol selling prices, partially offset by higher sales volumes for ethanol and, to a lesser extent, higher average lysine selling prices and higher lysine sales volumes. Agricultural Services operating profits increased 89% to $1.0 billion. 2007 operating profits in Merchandising and Handling include a $153 million gain on the sale of the Companys interest in Agricore United. Excluding this gain, Merchandising and Handling operating profits increased 281% to $873 million. This increase was primarily due to enhanced merchandising and handling margins caused by volatile global grain and freight markets, favorable risk management results, and to a lesser extent, increased sales volumes. Transportation operating profits decreased 8% to $144 million primarily due to increased fuel costs. Other operating profits increased 12% to $423 million. Wheat, Cocoa and Malt operating profits increased 4% to $217 million. 2007 operating profits for Wheat included a gain of $39 million from the sale of the Companys Arkady food ingredient business. Excluding the Arkady gain, Wheat, Cocoa and Malt operating profits improved 28%, primarily due to improved wheat and malt margins reflecting increased demand, partially offset by decreased cocoa processing margins reflecting higher raw material and operating costs and competitive pressures experienced in the North American chocolate market. Financial operating profits improved 21% to $206 million primarily due to improvements in the Companys futures commission merchant business. Corporate expense increased $810 million to $817 million, primarily due to a $362 million increase in the charge related to the effects of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations, a $371 million decrease in realized securities gains primarily reflecting the $357 million gain recorded in 2007 from sales of the Companys equity securities of Tyson Foods, Inc. and Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc., a $51 million increase in corporate expenses due principally to reorganization and realignment costs, partially offset by a charge of $46 million recorded in 2007 related to the repurchase of $400 million of the Companys outstanding debentures. Income taxes decreased primarily due to lower pretax earnings. The Companys effective tax rate during 2008 of 31.3% was comparable to the 2007 rate of 31.5%. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) 2007 Compared to 2006 As an agricultural based commodity business, the Company is subject to a variety of market factors which affect the Companys operating results. Strong biodiesel demand in Europe continued to create increased vegetable oil demand and positively impacted rapeseed crushing margins in Europe. Abundant oilseed supplies, improved vegetable oil values, and strong protein meal demand have positively impacted oilseed crushing margins in North America. Increased ethanol contracted selling prices, continuing strong ethanol demand, and solid demand for sweetener and starch products improved corn processing results. These increases in corn processing results were partially offset by higher net corn costs. Global grain merchandising opportunities resulting from regional production imbalances also improved operating results. North American river transportation operations were favorably impacted by strong demand for river transportation services which increased barge freight rates. Increasing commodity price levels resulted in larger LIFO inventory valuation reserves. Net earnings increased due principally to improved operating results in all of the Companys operating segments. Earnings before income taxes for 2007 include a gain of $440 million related to the exchange of the Companys interests in certain Asian joint ventures for shares of Wilmar International Limited (the Wilmar Gain), a $357 million realized securities gain from sales of the Companys equity securities of Tyson Foods, Inc. and Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc., a gain of $153 million from the sale of the Companys interest in Agricore United and a $53 million gain from the sale of the Companys Arkady food ingredient business. Earnings before income taxes for 2007 also include charges of $207 million from the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations, $46 million related to the repurchase of $400 million of the Companys outstanding debentures, and $21 million related to abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Net earnings for 2006 include a $36 million reduction in income tax expense related to the recognition of federal and state income tax credits and adjustments resulting from the reconciliation of filed tax returns to the previously estimated tax provision. Earnings before income taxes for 2006 include charges of $15 million resulting from the Companys adoption of Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation No. 47, Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations, an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 143 (FIN 47), $71 million related to abandonment and write down of long lived assets, $9 million representing the Companys share of a charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets reported by an unconsolidated affiliate of the Company, and $22 million associated with the closure of a citric acid plant and exiting the European animal feed business. Earnings before income taxes for 2006 also include credits of $12 million from the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations, $17 million from the sale of long lived assets, $46 million related to Brazilian transactional tax credits, and $40 million related to realized securities gains. Analysis of Statements of Earnings Net sales and other operating income increased 20% to $44.0 billion due primarily to increased selling prices of agricultural commodities, oilseed and corn processing products and, to a lesser extent, increased sales volumes of agricultural commodities and oilseed processing products. In addition, net sales and other operating income increased $916 million, or 3%, due to currency exchange rate fluctuations. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Net sales and other operating income by segment are as follows: 2007 2006 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing & Origination $ 8,036 $ 7,048 $ 988 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel & Other 5,758 4,726 1,032 Asia 149 119 30 Total Oilseeds Processing 13,943 11,893 2,050 Corn Processing Sweeteners & Starches 2,761 2,529 232 Bioproducts 3,064 2,727 337 Total Corn Processing 5,825 5,256 569 Agricultural Services Merchandising & Handling 20,222 15,954 4,268 Transportation 197 201 (4 ) Total Agricultural Services 20,419 16,155 4,264 Other Wheat, Cocoa, & Malt 3,738 3,217 521 Financial 93 75 18 Total Other 3,831 3,292 539 Total $ 44,018 $ 36,596 $ 7,422 Oilseeds Processing sales increased 17% to $13.9 billion due principally to increased average selling prices of vegetable oil and increased sales volumes of vegetable oil and biodiesel. Vegetable oil selling prices and volumes improved as the markets anticipated new demand from the developing United States biodiesel industry. Biodiesel sales volumes increased due to additional production capacity. Corn Processing sales increased 11% to $5.8 billion due principally to increased sales of Bioproducts and, to a lesser extent, increased sales of Sweeteners and Starches. Bioproducts sales increased primarily due to higher average selling prices of ethanol, partially offset by lower sales volumes. Ethanol average selling prices increased primarily due to higher gasoline prices. Ethanol sales volumes decreased as 2006 sales volumes exceeded production due to the release of inventories built up in anticipation of refiners replacing MTBE with ethanol. Sweeteners and Starches sales increased primarily due to higher average selling prices resulting from good demand for sweetener and starch products. Agricultural Services sales increased 26% to $20.4 billion due principally to increased agricultural commodity prices and increased sales volumes. The increase in commodity prices was primarily due to higher average market prices of corn in North America which had increased 60% from the prior year. Increased sales volumes of global grain merchandising activities also contributed to the increase in Agricultural Services sales. Other sales increased 16% to $3.8 billion primarily due to higher average selling prices of wheat flour products and, to a lesser extent, increased sales volumes and higher average selling prices of cocoa products. Cost of products sold increased 21% to $40.8 billion primarily due to higher average costs of agricultural commodities and increased sales volumes. Manufacturing costs for 2007 and 2006 include a $21 million and $62 million charge, respectively, for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. In addition, cost of products sold increased $874 million, or 3%, due to currency exchange rate fluctuations. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Selling, general, and administrative expenses of $1.2 billion were comparable to 2006 and included $25 million of currency exchange rate increases. Excluding the impact of currency exchange rate increases, selling, general and administrative expenses decreased $23 million due principally to 2006 selling, general and administrative expenses including $20 million of severance costs associated with the closure of a citric acid plant. During 2007 and 2006, the Company issued option grants and restricted stock awards to officers and key employees pursuant to the Companys Long term Management Incentive Program. Certain officers and key employees of the Company receiving option grants and restricted stock awards were eligible for retirement. Compensation expense related to option grants and restricted stock awards issued to these retirement eligible employees is recognized in earnings on the date of grant. Selling, general, and administrative expense for 2007 and 2006 includes compensation expense related to option grants and restricted stock awards granted to retirement eligible employees of $30 million and $31 million, respectively. Other income net increased $1.0 billion primarily due to the $440 million Wilmar Gain, a $357 million gain on the sale of the Companys equity securities of Tyson Foods, Inc. and Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc., a $153 million gain on the sale of the Companys interest in Agricore United, and a $53 million gain on the sale of the Companys Arkady food ingredient business. Other income net also includes a $46 million charge related to the repurchase of $400 million of the Companys outstanding debentures in 2007. Excluding these items, other income net increased $73 million primarily due to a $120 million increase in equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates, and a $53 million increase in investment income, partially offset by a $69 million increase in interest expense and a $27 million reduction in gains on sales of long lived assets. The increase in equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates was primarily due to higher valuations of the Companys private equity fund investments and improved operating results of the Companys Asian oilseed ventures. Interest expense and investment income increased primarily due to increased average borrowing and investment levels. Operating profit by segment is as follows: 2007 2006 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing & Origination $ 414 $ 376 $ 38 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel & Other 202 140 62 Asia 523 53 470 Total Oilseeds Processing 1,139 569 570 Corn Processing Sweeteners & Starches 509 458 51 Bioproducts 596 443 153 Total Corn Processing 1,105 901 204 Agricultural Services Merchandising & Handling 382 94 288 Transportation 156 143 13 Total Agricultural Services 538 237 301 Other Wheat, Cocoa, & Malt 209 228 (19 ) Financial 170 126 44 Total Other 379 354 25 Total Segment Operating Profit 3,161 2,061 1,100 Corporate (7 ) (206 ) 199 Earnings Before Income Taxes $ 3,154 $ 1,855 $ 1,299 Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Oilseeds Processing operating profits increased $570 million to $1.1 billion due principally to the $440 million Wilmar Gain and improved market conditions in all geographic regions. North American processing results improved due principally to abundant oilseed supplies in the United States and good demand for vegetable oil and soybean meal. Vegetable oil values improved as the markets anticipated new demand from the developing United States biodiesel industry. North American processing results were also favorably impacted by lower plant operating costs resulting from improved capacity utilization. Asian joint venture results improved due to improved palm processing operating results partially offset by decreased soy crushing operating results. European processing results improved due principally to abundant oilseed supplies in Europe and strong demand for vegetable oil. The strong demand for vegetable oil is the result of strong biodiesel demand. These increases were partially offset by decreased biodiesel operating profits resulting from higher vegetable oil prices, increased market production capacity, and lower diesel fuel prices. South American processing results declined due principally to the $27 million credit for Brazilian transactional taxes in 2006. Excluding the impact of the credit for Brazilian transactional taxes, South American processing results improved due principally to increased fertilizer margins. The improvement in fertilizer margins was primarily due to higher average sales prices due to improved fertilizer demand combined with stable raw material costs. Operating profits for 2007 include a $6 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Operating profits for 2006 include a $14 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets and a $6 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47. Corn Processing operating profits increased $204 million to $1.1 billion due principally to higher average selling prices and lower energy costs, partially offset by lower ethanol sales volumes and higher net corn costs. Net corn costs increased approximately 60% during 2007 due to significant anticipated demand increases for corn resulting primarily from increasing corn derived ethanol industry capacity. Agricultural commodity market concerns regarding the expected decline in the ending 2006 corn crop carryover also contributed to the increase in corn costs. Sweeteners and Starches operating profits increased $51 million primarily due to higher average sales prices and lower energy costs. Sales prices increased due principally to good demand for sweetener and starch products. These increases were partially offset by increased net corn costs. Sweeteners and Starches operating profits for 2006 include a $5 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47. Bioproducts operating profits increased $153 million primarily due to higher ethanol average selling prices and lower energy costs, partially offset by increased net corn costs and lower ethanol sales volumes. Ethanol average sales prices increased due principally to strong demand from gasoline refiners and higher gasoline prices. Ethanol sales volumes decreased as 2006 sales volumes exceeded production due to the release of inventories built up in anticipation of refiners replacing MTBE with ethanol. Bioproducts operating results for 2007 include a $1 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Bioproducts operating results for 2006 include a $6 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets, a $2 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47, and $6 million of costs related to the closure of a citric acid plant. Agricultural Services operating profits increased $301 million to $538 million due principally to a $153 million gain from the sale of the Companys interest in Agricore United, a Canadian business which specialized in crop input, crop protection services, and grain marketing and merchandising. Excluding the Agricore United gain, Agricultural Services operating profits increased $148 million to $385 million due principally to improved global grain merchandising operating results and, to a lesser extent, improved transportation and North American origination operating results. Global grain merchandising results improved as regional production imbalances allowed the Company to capitalize on merchandising opportunities. North American river transportation operating results increased primarily due to increased barge freight rates created by strong demand for barge capacity. North American origination operating results improved due to good export demand for agricultural commodities and higher ocean freight rates. Agricultural Services operating profits for 2007 include a $12 million trade disruption insurance recovery related to Hurricane Katrina. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Other operating profits increased $25 million to $379 million. Wheat, Cocoa, and Malt operating profits decreased $19 million. Wheat operating profits include a $39 million gain on the sale of the Companys Arkady food ingredient business in 2007 and a $17 million gain from the sale of long lived assets in 2006. Excluding the effect of these one time gains, Wheat, Cocoa, and Malt operating profits declined $41 million primarily due to cocoa operating results declining from prior year levels and to a lesser extent, weaker equity earnings from our investment in Gruma S.A. partially offset by improved operating results of the Companys wheat flour processing operations. Cocoa processing operating results declined primarily due to increased industry production capacity which caused downward pressure on cocoa processing margins. Financial operating profits increased $44 million due principally to increased valuations of the Companys private equity fund investments and higher operating results of the Companys futures commission merchant business, partially offset by lower operating results of the Companys captive insurance operations. The results of the Companys captive insurance operations for 2007 include a $12 million charge related to a Hurricane Katrina trade disruption insurance settlement. Corporate expense decreased $199 million to $7 million due principally to a $345 million increase in realized securities gains principally resulting from sales of the Companys equity securities of Tyson Foods, Inc. and Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc. and a $103 million reduction in unallocated interest expense due principally to higher levels of invested funds and higher interest rates. These decreases were partially offset by a $207 million charge, compared to a $12 million credit in the prior year, related to the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations and a $46 million charge related to the repurchase of $400 million of the Companys outstanding debentures. Income taxes increased due principally to higher pretax earnings and the absence of a $36 million income tax credit in 2006 related to the recognition of federal and state income tax credits and adjustments resulting from the reconciliation of filed tax returns to the previously estimated tax provision. The Companys effective tax rate during 2007 was 31.5% and, after excluding the effect of the 2006 $36 million tax credit, was 31.2% for the prior year. The increase in the Companys effective tax rate was primarily due to changes in the geographic mix of pretax earnings. Liquidity and Capital Resources A Company objective is to have sufficient liquidity, balance sheet strength, and financial flexibility to fund the operating and capital requirements of a capital intensive agricultural based commodity business. At June 30, 2008, the Company had $1.3 billion of cash, cash equivalents, and short term marketable securities and a current ratio, defined as current assets divided by current liabilities, of 1.7 to 1. Included in working capital is $7.8 billion of readily marketable commodity inventories. Cash used in operating activities totaled $3.2 billion for the year compared to $303 million cash generated from operations last year. This change was primarily due to an increase in working capital requirements principally related to increased market prices and, to a lesser extent, increased quantities of agricultural commodity inventories, principally readily marketable commodity inventories, and increased receivables. Cash used in investing activities increased $1.5 billion for the year to $1.9 billion primarily due to increased capital expenditures and decreased proceeds from sales of businesses including the sale of the Companys equity interests in Tyson Foods, Inc., Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc. and Agricore United in 2007. Cash generated by financing activities was $5.2 billion compared to cash used in financing activities of $398 million last year. Net long term borrowings increased primarily as a result of the issuance in 2008 of approximately $3.1 billion of additional long term debt, including $500 million of debentures issued in December 2007, $700 million of notes issued in March 2008, and $1.75 billion of debentures in June 2008, compared to $1.15 billion of convertible senior notes issued in February 2007, partially offset by $480 million of reduced debt payments principally related to the Companys retirement of $400 million of debentures in 2007. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Capital resources were strengthened in 2008 as shown by the increase in the Companys net worth from $11.3 billion to $13.5 billion. The Companys ratio of long term debt to total capital (the sum of the Companys long term debt and shareholders equity) was 36% at June 30, 2008, and 30% at June 30, 2007. This ratio is a measure of the Companys long term liquidity and is an indicator of financial flexibility. The Company currently has $7.4 billion of commercial paper and commercial bank lines available to meet seasonal cash requirements of which $5.2 billion are committed and $2.2 billion are uncommitted. At June 30, 2008, the Company had $3.1 billion of short term debt outstanding. Standard & Poors, Moodys, and Fitch rate the Companys commercial paper as A 1, P 1, and F1, respectively, and rate the Companys long term debt as A, A2, and A, respectively. In addition to the cash flow generated from operations, the Company has access to equity and debt capital through numerous alternatives from public and private sources in domestic and international markets. The Company has outstanding $1.15 billion principal amount of convertible senior notes. As of June 30, 2008, none of the conditions permitting conversion of the notes had been satisfied. As of June 30, 2008, the market price of the Companys common stock was not greater than the exercise price of the purchased call options or warrants related to the convertible senior notes. In June 2008, the Company issued $1.75 billion of debentures as a component of Equity Units. The Equity Units are a combination of (a) debt and (b) forward contracts for the holder to purchase the Companys common stock. The purchase contracts obligate the holder to purchase from the Company, no later than June 1, 2011, for a price of $50 in cash, a certain number of shares, ranging from 1.0453 shares to 1.2544 shares, of the Companys common stock, based on a formula established in the contract. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements In the normal course of business, the Company enters into contracts and commitments which obligate the Company to make payments in the future. The following table sets forth the Companys significant future obligations by time period. Purchases include commodity based contracts entered into in the normal course of business, which are further described in Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, energy related purchase contracts entered into in the normal course of business, and other purchase obligations related to the Companys normal business activities. Where applicable, information included in the Companys consolidated financial statements and notes is cross referenced in this table. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Payments Due by Period Contractual Note Less than 1 3 3 5 More than Obligations Reference Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years (In millions) Purchases Inventories $ 24,230 $ 22,813 $ 1,200 $ 174 $ 43 Energy 952 502 302 80 68 Other 148 58 60 18 12 Total purchases 25,330 23,373 1,562 272 123 Short term debt Note 7 3,123 3,123 Long term debt Note 7 7,993 232 358 380 7,023 Estimated interest payments 9,639 511 808 758 7,562 Operating leases Note 12 1,364 403 402 239 320 Estimated pension and other postretirement plan contributions Note 13 1,217 90 204 229 694 Total $ 48,666 $ 27,732 $ 3,334 $ 1,878 $ 15,722 At June 30, 2008, the Company estimates it will spend approximately $2.5 billion over the next five years to complete currently approved capital projects and acquisitions which is not included in the table above. The Company is a limited partner in various private equity funds which invest primarily in emerging markets. At June 30, 2008, the Companys carrying value of these limited partnership investments was $129 million. The Company has future capital commitments related to these partnerships of $137 million and expects the majority of these additional capital commitments, if called for, to be funded by cash flows generated by the partnerships. The Company also has outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds of $500 million at June 30, 2008. In addition, the Company has entered into agreements, primarily debt guarantee agreements related to equity method investees, which could obligate the Company to make future payments. The Companys liability under these agreements arises only if the primary entity fails to perform its contractual obligation. The Company has collateral for a portion of these contingent obligations. At June 30, 2008, these contingent obligations totaled approximately $135 million. Amounts outstanding for the primary entity under these contingent obligations were $62 million at June 30, 2008. Critical Accounting Policies The process of preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the carrying values of the Companys assets and liabilities as well as the recognition of revenues and expenses. These estimates and judgments are based on the Companys historical experience and managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Certain of the Companys accounting policies are considered critical, as these policies are important to the depiction of the Companys financial statements and require significant or complex judgment by management. Management has discussed with the Companys Audit Committee the development, selection, disclosure, and application of these critical accounting policies. Following are the accounting policies management considers critical to the Companys financial statements. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Inventories and Derivatives Certain of the Companys merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, forward fixed price purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts are valued at estimated market values. These merchandisable agricultural commodities are freely traded, have quoted market prices, and may be sold without significant additional processing. Management estimates market value based on exchange quoted prices, adjusted for differences in local markets. Changes in the market values of these inventories and contracts are recognized in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. If management used different methods or factors to estimate market value, amounts reported as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. Additionally, if market conditions change subsequent to year end, amounts reported in future periods as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. The Company, from time to time, uses derivative contracts designated as cash flow hedges to fix the purchase price of anticipated volumes of commodities to be purchased and processed in a future month, to fix the purchase price of the Companys anticipated natural gas requirements for certain production facilities, and to fix the sales price of anticipated volumes of ethanol. The change in the market value of such derivative contracts has historically been, and is expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. If it is determined that the derivative instruments used are no longer effective at offsetting changes in the price of the hedged item, then the changes in the market value of these exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts would be recorded in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. Employee Benefit Plans The Company provides substantially all domestic employees and employees at certain international subsidiaries with pension benefits. The Company also provides substantially all domestic salaried employees with postretirement health care and life insurance benefits. In order to measure the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans, management makes several estimates and assumptions, including interest rates used to discount certain liabilities, rates of return on assets set aside to fund these plans, rates of compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and anticipated future health care costs. These estimates and assumptions are based on the Companys historical experience combined with managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Management also uses third party actuaries to assist in measuring the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans. If management used different estimates and assumptions regarding these plans, the funded status of the plans could vary significantly, and the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Income Taxes The Company frequently faces challenges from domestic and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company records reserves for estimates of potential additional tax owed by the Company. Deferred tax assets represent items to be used as tax deductions or credits in future tax returns, and the related tax benefit has already been recognized in the Companys income statement. Realization of certain deferred tax assets reflects the Companys tax planning strategies. Valuation allowances related to these deferred tax assets have been established to the extent the realization of the tax benefit is not probable. Based on managements evaluation of the Companys tax position, it is believed the amounts related to these tax exposures are appropriately accrued. To the extent the Company were to favorably resolve matters for which accruals have been established or be required to pay amounts in excess of the aforementioned reserves, the Companys effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be impacted. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and affiliated corporate joint ventures accounted for on the equity method are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by unpredictable factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned unpredictable factors, therefore, may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and profitability of the Companys asset base in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its factories. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment, technology, and companies related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. The Company evaluates goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives for impairment annually. Assets are written down after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these assets, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Valuation of Marketable Securities and Investments in Affiliates The Company classifies the majority of its marketable securities as available for sale and carries these securities at fair value. Investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings and are adjusted, where appropriate, for amortizable basis differences between the investment balance and the underlying net assets of the investee. For publicly traded securities, the fair value of the Companys investments is readily available based on quoted market prices. For non publicly traded securities, managements assessment of fair value is based on valuation methodologies including discounted cash flows and estimates of sales proceeds. In the event of a decline in fair value of an investment below carrying value, management may be required to determine if the decline in fair value is other than temporary. In evaluating the nature of a decline in the fair value of an investment, management considers the market conditions, trends of earnings, discounted cash flows, trading volumes, and other key measures of the investment as well as the Companys ability and intent to hold the investment. When such a decline in value is deemed to be other than temporary, an impairment loss is recognized in the current period operating results to the extent of the decline. See Notes 3 and 5 to the Companys consolidated financial statements for information regarding the Companys marketable securities and investments in affiliates. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these marketable securities, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in: commodity market prices as they relate to the Companys net commodity position, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and price of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to unpredictable factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. To reduce price risk caused by market fluctuations, the Company generally follows a policy of using exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts to minimize its net position of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories and forward cash purchase and sales contracts. The Company will also use exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the volatility of the relationship between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contracts defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company from time to time enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. A sensitivity analysis has been prepared to estimate the Companys exposure to market risk of its daily net commodity position. The Companys daily net commodity position consists of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, related purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts, including those contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements. The fair value of such daily net commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing each net position at quoted futures prices. Market risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in such prices. Actual results may differ. 2008 2007 Long/(Short) Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest position $ 1,260 $ 126 $ 703 $ 70 Lowest position (915 ) (92 ) (565 ) (57 ) Average position 251 25 180 18 The change in fair value of the average position for 2008 compared to 2007 was principally a result of increases in commodity prices and, to a lesser extent, quantities underlying the daily net commodity position. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) Currencies In order to reduce the risk of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, except for amounts permanently invested as described below, the Company follows a policy of entering into currency exchange forward contracts to mitigate its foreign currency risk related to transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currencies applicable to each of its various entities. The instruments used are forward contracts, swaps with banks, and exchange traded futures contracts. The changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $7.0 billion at June 30, 2008, and $5.4 billion at June 30, 2007. This increase is due to an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and appreciation of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar. The potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $695 million and $543 million for 2008 and 2007, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical .5% decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2008 2007 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 7,789 $ 4,862 Excess of fair value over carrying value 99 110 Market risk 308 232 The increase in fair value of long term debt in 2008 resulted principally from the Companys issuance of approximately $3.1 billion in long term debt in 2008. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $224 million to $1.4 billion primarily due to higher employee related costs and higher outside service costs, including $44 million related to an organizational realignment and reorganization of the companys European headquarters, and increased $37 million due to the impact of currency rate fluctuations. Other income net decreased $911 million primarily due to gains totaling $1.0 billion on business disposals recorded in 2007 including $440 million related to the Wilmar gain, $357 million realized securities gain from sales of the Companys equity securities of Tyson Foods, Inc. and Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc., a gain of $153 million from the sale of the Companys interest in Agricore United, and a $53 million gain from the sale of the Companys Arkady food ingredient business. Equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates increased $121 million in 2008, primarily related to improved operating results of the Companys investments in U.S. grain export, Asian oilseeds and peanut processing ventures. Other income net also reflects $38 million in gains on sales of securities in 2008, $21 million in gains on disposals of long lived assets in 2008, an increase from 2007 to 2008 of $11 million in charges related to abandonment and write down of long lived assets, and a charge of $46 million related to the repurchase of $400 million of the Companys outstanding debentures in 2007. Operating profit by segment is as follows: 2008 2007 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing & Origination $ 727 $ 414 $ 313 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel & Other 181 202 (21 ) Asia 132 523 (391 ) Total Oilseeds Processing 1,040 1,139 (99 ) Corn Processing Sweeteners & Starches 529 509 20 Bioproducts 432 596 (164 ) Total Corn Processing 961 1,105 (144 ) Agricultural Services Merchandising & Handling 873 382 491 Transportation 144 156 (12 ) Total Agricultural Services 1,017 538 479 Other Wheat, Cocoa, & Malt 217 209 8 Financial 206 170 36 Total Other 423 379 44 Total Segment Operating Profit 3,441 3,161 280 Corporate (817 ) (7 ) (810 ) Earnings Before Income Taxes $ 2,624 $ 3,154 $ (530 ) Oilseeds Processing operating profit decreased 9% to $1.0 billion. Excluding the $440 million Wilmar gain reflected in Asia results in 2007, Oilseeds Processing operating profit increased 49%, primarily due to strong global demand for protein meal, vegetable oil, and fertilizer. Crushing and Origination operating profits increased 76% to $727 million due principally to improved crushing margins in North and South America and improved fertilizer results in South America. Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel and Other operating profits decreased 10% to $181 million due principally to decreased biodiesel margins in Europe and asset impairment charges of $28 million in 2008, partially offset by improved global refining margins. 2007 operating profit for Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel and Other includes a $14 million gain on a business disposal. Excluding the Wilmar gain, Asia operating profits increased 59% to $132 million, principally reflecting the Companys share of improved operating profits of Wilmar International Limited. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Corn Processing operating profits decreased 13% to $961 million, primarily due to higher net corn costs. Sweeteners and Starches operating profits of $529 were relatively unchanged as higher average selling prices were offset by higher net corn costs and increased manufacturing costs. Manufacturing cost increases reflect higher energy costs, higher repair and maintenance expenses, and higher costs for chemicals used in the manufacturing process. Bioproducts operating profits decreased 28% to $432 million primarily due to higher net corn costs, higher manufacturing expenses, and decreased average ethanol selling prices, partially offset by higher sales volumes for ethanol and, to a lesser extent, higher average lysine selling prices and higher lysine sales volumes. Agricultural Services operating profits increased 89% to $1.0 billion. 2007 operating profits in Merchandising and Handling include a $153 million gain on the sale of the Companys interest in Agricore United. Excluding this gain, Merchandising and Handling operating profits increased 281% to $873 million. This increase was primarily due to enhanced merchandising and handling margins caused by volatile global grain and freight markets, favorable risk management results, and to a lesser extent, increased sales volumes. Transportation operating profits decreased 8% to $144 million primarily due to increased fuel costs. Other operating profits increased 12% to $423 million. Wheat, Cocoa and Malt operating profits increased 4% to $217 million. 2007 operating profits for Wheat included a gain of $39 million from the sale of the Companys Arkady food ingredient business. Excluding the Arkady gain, Wheat, Cocoa and Malt operating profits improved 28%, primarily due to improved wheat and malt margins reflecting increased demand, partially offset by decreased cocoa processing margins reflecting higher raw material and operating costs and competitive pressures experienced in the North American chocolate market. Financial operating profits improved 21% to $206 million primarily due to improvements in the Companys futures commission merchant business. Corporate expense increased $810 million to $817 million, primarily due to a $362 million increase in the charge related to the effects of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations, a $371 million decrease in realized securities gains primarily reflecting the $357 million gain recorded in 2007 from sales of the Companys equity securities of Tyson Foods, Inc. and Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc., a $51 million increase in corporate expenses due principally to reorganization and realignment costs, partially offset by a charge of $46 million recorded in 2007 related to the repurchase of $400 million of the Companys outstanding debentures. Income taxes decreased primarily due to lower pretax earnings. The Companys effective tax rate during 2008 of 31.3% was comparable to the 2007 rate of 31.5%. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) 2007 Compared to 2006 As an agricultural based commodity business, the Company is subject to a variety of market factors which affect the Companys operating results. Strong biodiesel demand in Europe continued to create increased vegetable oil demand and positively impacted rapeseed crushing margins in Europe. Abundant oilseed supplies, improved vegetable oil values, and strong protein meal demand have positively impacted oilseed crushing margins in North America. Increased ethanol contracted selling prices, continuing strong ethanol demand, and solid demand for sweetener and starch products improved corn processing results. These increases in corn processing results were partially offset by higher net corn costs. Global grain merchandising opportunities resulting from regional production imbalances also improved operating results. North American river transportation operations were favorably impacted by strong demand for river transportation services which increased barge freight rates. Increasing commodity price levels resulted in larger LIFO inventory valuation reserves. Net earnings increased due principally to improved operating results in all of the Companys operating segments. Earnings before income taxes for 2007 include a gain of $440 million related to the exchange of the Companys interests in certain Asian joint ventures for shares of Wilmar International Limited (the Wilmar Gain), a $357 million realized securities gain from sales of the Companys equity securities of Tyson Foods, Inc. and Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc., a gain of $153 million from the sale of the Companys interest in Agricore United and a $53 million gain from the sale of the Companys Arkady food ingredient business. Earnings before income taxes for 2007 also include charges of $207 million from the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations, $46 million related to the repurchase of $400 million of the Companys outstanding debentures, and $21 million related to abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Net earnings for 2006 include a $36 million reduction in income tax expense related to the recognition of federal and state income tax credits and adjustments resulting from the reconciliation of filed tax returns to the previously estimated tax provision. Earnings before income taxes for 2006 include charges of $15 million resulting from the Companys adoption of Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation No. 47, Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations, an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 143 (FIN 47), $71 million related to abandonment and write down of long lived assets, $9 million representing the Companys share of a charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets reported by an unconsolidated affiliate of the Company, and $22 million associated with the closure of a citric acid plant and exiting the European animal feed business. Earnings before income taxes for 2006 also include credits of $12 million from the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations, $17 million from the sale of long lived assets, $46 million related to Brazilian transactional tax credits, and $40 million related to realized securities gains. Analysis of Statements of Earnings Net sales and other operating income increased 20% to $44.0 billion due primarily to increased selling prices of agricultural commodities, oilseed and corn processing products and, to a lesser extent, increased sales volumes of agricultural commodities and oilseed processing products. In addition, net sales and other operating income increased $916 million, or 3%, due to currency exchange rate fluctuations. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Net sales and other operating income by segment are as follows: 2007 2006 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing & Origination $ 8,036 $ 7,048 $ 988 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel & Other 5,758 4,726 1,032 Asia 149 119 30 Total Oilseeds Processing 13,943 11,893 2,050 Corn Processing Sweeteners & Starches 2,761 2,529 232 Bioproducts 3,064 2,727 337 Total Corn Processing 5,825 5,256 569 Agricultural Services Merchandising & Handling 20,222 15,954 4,268 Transportation 197 201 (4 ) Total Agricultural Services 20,419 16,155 4,264 Other Wheat, Cocoa, & Malt 3,738 3,217 521 Financial 93 75 18 Total Other 3,831 3,292 539 Total $ 44,018 $ 36,596 $ 7,422 Oilseeds Processing sales increased 17% to $13.9 billion due principally to increased average selling prices of vegetable oil and increased sales volumes of vegetable oil and biodiesel. Vegetable oil selling prices and volumes improved as the markets anticipated new demand from the developing United States biodiesel industry. Biodiesel sales volumes increased due to additional production capacity. Corn Processing sales increased 11% to $5.8 billion due principally to increased sales of Bioproducts and, to a lesser extent, increased sales of Sweeteners and Starches. Bioproducts sales increased primarily due to higher average selling prices of ethanol, partially offset by lower sales volumes. Ethanol average selling prices increased primarily due to higher gasoline prices. Ethanol sales volumes decreased as 2006 sales volumes exceeded production due to the release of inventories built up in anticipation of refiners replacing MTBE with ethanol. Sweeteners and Starches sales increased primarily due to higher average selling prices resulting from good demand for sweetener and starch products. Agricultural Services sales increased 26% to $20.4 billion due principally to increased agricultural commodity prices and increased sales volumes. The increase in commodity prices was primarily due to higher average market prices of corn in North America which had increased 60% from the prior year. Increased sales volumes of global grain merchandising activities also contributed to the increase in Agricultural Services sales. Other sales increased 16% to $3.8 billion primarily due to higher average selling prices of wheat flour products and, to a lesser extent, increased sales volumes and higher average selling prices of cocoa products. Cost of products sold increased 21% to $40.8 billion primarily due to higher average costs of agricultural commodities and increased sales volumes. Manufacturing costs for 2007 and 2006 include a $21 million and $62 million charge, respectively, for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. In addition, cost of products sold increased $874 million, or 3%, due to currency exchange rate fluctuations. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Selling, general, and administrative expenses of $1.2 billion were comparable to 2006 and included $25 million of currency exchange rate increases. Excluding the impact of currency exchange rate increases, selling, general and administrative expenses decreased $23 million due principally to 2006 selling, general and administrative expenses including $20 million of severance costs associated with the closure of a citric acid plant. During 2007 and 2006, the Company issued option grants and restricted stock awards to officers and key employees pursuant to the Companys Long term Management Incentive Program. Certain officers and key employees of the Company receiving option grants and restricted stock awards were eligible for retirement. Compensation expense related to option grants and restricted stock awards issued to these retirement eligible employees is recognized in earnings on the date of grant. Selling, general, and administrative expense for 2007 and 2006 includes compensation expense related to option grants and restricted stock awards granted to retirement eligible employees of $30 million and $31 million, respectively. Other income net increased $1.0 billion primarily due to the $440 million Wilmar Gain, a $357 million gain on the sale of the Companys equity securities of Tyson Foods, Inc. and Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc., a $153 million gain on the sale of the Companys interest in Agricore United, and a $53 million gain on the sale of the Companys Arkady food ingredient business. Other income net also includes a $46 million charge related to the repurchase of $400 million of the Companys outstanding debentures in 2007. Excluding these items, other income net increased $73 million primarily due to a $120 million increase in equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates, and a $53 million increase in investment income, partially offset by a $69 million increase in interest expense and a $27 million reduction in gains on sales of long lived assets. The increase in equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates was primarily due to higher valuations of the Companys private equity fund investments and improved operating results of the Companys Asian oilseed ventures. Interest expense and investment income increased primarily due to increased average borrowing and investment levels. Operating profit by segment is as follows: 2007 2006 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing & Origination $ 414 $ 376 $ 38 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel & Other 202 140 62 Asia 523 53 470 Total Oilseeds Processing 1,139 569 570 Corn Processing Sweeteners & Starches 509 458 51 Bioproducts 596 443 153 Total Corn Processing 1,105 901 204 Agricultural Services Merchandising & Handling 382 94 288 Transportation 156 143 13 Total Agricultural Services 538 237 301 Other Wheat, Cocoa, & Malt 209 228 (19 ) Financial 170 126 44 Total Other 379 354 25 Total Segment Operating Profit 3,161 2,061 1,100 Corporate (7 ) (206 ) 199 Earnings Before Income Taxes $ 3,154 $ 1,855 $ 1,299 Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Oilseeds Processing operating profits increased $570 million to $1.1 billion due principally to the $440 million Wilmar Gain and improved market conditions in all geographic regions. North American processing results improved due principally to abundant oilseed supplies in the United States and good demand for vegetable oil and soybean meal. Vegetable oil values improved as the markets anticipated new demand from the developing United States biodiesel industry. North American processing results were also favorably impacted by lower plant operating costs resulting from improved capacity utilization. Asian joint venture results improved due to improved palm processing operating results partially offset by decreased soy crushing operating results. European processing results improved due principally to abundant oilseed supplies in Europe and strong demand for vegetable oil. The strong demand for vegetable oil is the result of strong biodiesel demand. These increases were partially offset by decreased biodiesel operating profits resulting from higher vegetable oil prices, increased market production capacity, and lower diesel fuel prices. South American processing results declined due principally to the $27 million credit for Brazilian transactional taxes in 2006. Excluding the impact of the credit for Brazilian transactional taxes, South American processing results improved due principally to increased fertilizer margins. The improvement in fertilizer margins was primarily due to higher average sales prices due to improved fertilizer demand combined with stable raw material costs. Operating profits for 2007 include a $6 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Operating profits for 2006 include a $14 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets and a $6 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47. Corn Processing operating profits increased $204 million to $1.1 billion due principally to higher average selling prices and lower energy costs, partially offset by lower ethanol sales volumes and higher net corn costs. Net corn costs increased approximately 60% during 2007 due to significant anticipated demand increases for corn resulting primarily from increasing corn derived ethanol industry capacity. Agricultural commodity market concerns regarding the expected decline in the ending 2006 corn crop carryover also contributed to the increase in corn costs. Sweeteners and Starches operating profits increased $51 million primarily due to higher average sales prices and lower energy costs. Sales prices increased due principally to good demand for sweetener and starch products. These increases were partially offset by increased net corn costs. Sweeteners and Starches operating profits for 2006 include a $5 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47. Bioproducts operating profits increased $153 million primarily due to higher ethanol average selling prices and lower energy costs, partially offset by increased net corn costs and lower ethanol sales volumes. Ethanol average sales prices increased due principally to strong demand from gasoline refiners and higher gasoline prices. Ethanol sales volumes decreased as 2006 sales volumes exceeded production due to the release of inventories built up in anticipation of refiners replacing MTBE with ethanol. Bioproducts operating results for 2007 include a $1 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Bioproducts operating results for 2006 include a $6 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets, a $2 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47, and $6 million of costs related to the closure of a citric acid plant. Agricultural Services operating profits increased $301 million to $538 million due principally to a $153 million gain from the sale of the Companys interest in Agricore United, a Canadian business which specialized in crop input, crop protection services, and grain marketing and merchandising. Excluding the Agricore United gain, Agricultural Services operating profits increased $148 million to $385 million due principally to improved global grain merchandising operating results and, to a lesser extent, improved transportation and North American origination operating results. Global grain merchandising results improved as regional production imbalances allowed the Company to capitalize on merchandising opportunities. North American river transportation operating results increased primarily due to increased barge freight rates created by strong demand for barge capacity. North American origination operating results improved due to good export demand for agricultural commodities and higher ocean freight rates. Agricultural Services operating profits for 2007 include a $12 million trade disruption insurance recovery related to Hurricane Katrina. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Other operating profits increased $25 million to $379 million. Wheat, Cocoa, and Malt operating profits decreased $19 million. Wheat operating profits include a $39 million gain on the sale of the Companys Arkady food ingredient business in 2007 and a $17 million gain from the sale of long lived assets in 2006. Excluding the effect of these one time gains, Wheat, Cocoa, and Malt operating profits declined $41 million primarily due to cocoa operating results declining from prior year levels and to a lesser extent, weaker equity earnings from our investment in Gruma S.A. partially offset by improved operating results of the Companys wheat flour processing operations. Cocoa processing operating results declined primarily due to increased industry production capacity which caused downward pressure on cocoa processing margins. Financial operating profits increased $44 million due principally to increased valuations of the Companys private equity fund investments and higher operating results of the Companys futures commission merchant business, partially offset by lower operating results of the Companys captive insurance operations. The results of the Companys captive insurance operations for 2007 include a $12 million charge related to a Hurricane Katrina trade disruption insurance settlement. Corporate expense decreased $199 million to $7 million due principally to a $345 million increase in realized securities gains principally resulting from sales of the Companys equity securities of Tyson Foods, Inc. and Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc. and a $103 million reduction in unallocated interest expense due principally to higher levels of invested funds and higher interest rates. These decreases were partially offset by a $207 million charge, compared to a $12 million credit in the prior year, related to the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations and a $46 million charge related to the repurchase of $400 million of the Companys outstanding debentures. Income taxes increased due principally to higher pretax earnings and the absence of a $36 million income tax credit in 2006 related to the recognition of federal and state income tax credits and adjustments resulting from the reconciliation of filed tax returns to the previously estimated tax provision. The Companys effective tax rate during 2007 was 31.5% and, after excluding the effect of the 2006 $36 million tax credit, was 31.2% for the prior year. The increase in the Companys effective tax rate was primarily due to changes in the geographic mix of pretax earnings. Liquidity and Capital Resources A Company objective is to have sufficient liquidity, balance sheet strength, and financial flexibility to fund the operating and capital requirements of a capital intensive agricultural based commodity business. At June 30, 2008, the Company had $1.3 billion of cash, cash equivalents, and short term marketable securities and a current ratio, defined as current assets divided by current liabilities, of 1.7 to 1. Included in working capital is $7.8 billion of readily marketable commodity inventories. Cash used in operating activities totaled $3.2 billion for the year compared to $303 million cash generated from operations last year. This change was primarily due to an increase in working capital requirements principally related to increased market prices and, to a lesser extent, increased quantities of agricultural commodity inventories, principally readily marketable commodity inventories, and increased receivables. Cash used in investing activities increased $1.5 billion for the year to $1.9 billion primarily due to increased capital expenditures and decreased proceeds from sales of businesses including the sale of the Companys equity interests in Tyson Foods, Inc., Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc. and Agricore United in 2007. Cash generated by financing activities was $5.2 billion compared to cash used in financing activities of $398 million last year. Net long term borrowings increased primarily as a result of the issuance in 2008 of approximately $3.1 billion of additional long term debt, including $500 million of debentures issued in December 2007, $700 million of notes issued in March 2008, and $1.75 billion of debentures in June 2008, compared to $1.15 billion of convertible senior notes issued in February 2007, partially offset by $480 million of reduced debt payments principally related to the Companys retirement of $400 million of debentures in 2007. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Capital resources were strengthened in 2008 as shown by the increase in the Companys net worth from $11.3 billion to $13.5 billion. The Companys ratio of long term debt to total capital (the sum of the Companys long term debt and shareholders equity) was 36% at June 30, 2008, and 30% at June 30, 2007. This ratio is a measure of the Companys long term liquidity and is an indicator of financial flexibility. The Company currently has $7.4 billion of commercial paper and commercial bank lines available to meet seasonal cash requirements of which $5.2 billion are committed and $2.2 billion are uncommitted. At June 30, 2008, the Company had $3.1 billion of short term debt outstanding. Standard & Poors, Moodys, and Fitch rate the Companys commercial paper as A 1, P 1, and F1, respectively, and rate the Companys long term debt as A, A2, and A, respectively. In addition to the cash flow generated from operations, the Company has access to equity and debt capital through numerous alternatives from public and private sources in domestic and international markets. The Company has outstanding $1.15 billion principal amount of convertible senior notes. As of June 30, 2008, none of the conditions permitting conversion of the notes had been satisfied. As of June 30, 2008, the market price of the Companys common stock was not greater than the exercise price of the purchased call options or warrants related to the convertible senior notes. In June 2008, the Company issued $1.75 billion of debentures as a component of Equity Units. The Equity Units are a combination of (a) debt and (b) forward contracts for the holder to purchase the Companys common stock. The purchase contracts obligate the holder to purchase from the Company, no later than June 1, 2011, for a price of $50 in cash, a certain number of shares, ranging from 1.0453 shares to 1.2544 shares, of the Companys common stock, based on a formula established in the contract. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements In the normal course of business, the Company enters into contracts and commitments which obligate the Company to make payments in the future. The following table sets forth the Companys significant future obligations by time period. Purchases include commodity based contracts entered into in the normal course of business, which are further described in Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, energy related purchase contracts entered into in the normal course of business, and other purchase obligations related to the Companys normal business activities. Where applicable, information included in the Companys consolidated financial statements and notes is cross referenced in this table. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Payments Due by Period Contractual Note Less than 1 3 3 5 More than Obligations Reference Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years (In millions) Purchases Inventories $ 24,230 $ 22,813 $ 1,200 $ 174 $ 43 Energy 952 502 302 80 68 Other 148 58 60 18 12 Total purchases 25,330 23,373 1,562 272 123 Short term debt Note 7 3,123 3,123 Long term debt Note 7 7,993 232 358 380 7,023 Estimated interest payments 9,639 511 808 758 7,562 Operating leases Note 12 1,364 403 402 239 320 Estimated pension and other postretirement plan contributions Note 13 1,217 90 204 229 694 Total $ 48,666 $ 27,732 $ 3,334 $ 1,878 $ 15,722 At June 30, 2008, the Company estimates it will spend approximately $2.5 billion over the next five years to complete currently approved capital projects and acquisitions which is not included in the table above. The Company is a limited partner in various private equity funds which invest primarily in emerging markets. At June 30, 2008, the Companys carrying value of these limited partnership investments was $129 million. The Company has future capital commitments related to these partnerships of $137 million and expects the majority of these additional capital commitments, if called for, to be funded by cash flows generated by the partnerships. The Company also has outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds of $500 million at June 30, 2008. In addition, the Company has entered into agreements, primarily debt guarantee agreements related to equity method investees, which could obligate the Company to make future payments. The Companys liability under these agreements arises only if the primary entity fails to perform its contractual obligation. The Company has collateral for a portion of these contingent obligations. At June 30, 2008, these contingent obligations totaled approximately $135 million. Amounts outstanding for the primary entity under these contingent obligations were $62 million at June 30, 2008. Critical Accounting Policies The process of preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the carrying values of the Companys assets and liabilities as well as the recognition of revenues and expenses. These estimates and judgments are based on the Companys historical experience and managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Certain of the Companys accounting policies are considered critical, as these policies are important to the depiction of the Companys financial statements and require significant or complex judgment by management. Management has discussed with the Companys Audit Committee the development, selection, disclosure, and application of these critical accounting policies. Following are the accounting policies management considers critical to the Companys financial statements. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Inventories and Derivatives Certain of the Companys merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, forward fixed price purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts are valued at estimated market values. These merchandisable agricultural commodities are freely traded, have quoted market prices, and may be sold without significant additional processing. Management estimates market value based on exchange quoted prices, adjusted for differences in local markets. Changes in the market values of these inventories and contracts are recognized in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. If management used different methods or factors to estimate market value, amounts reported as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. Additionally, if market conditions change subsequent to year end, amounts reported in future periods as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. The Company, from time to time, uses derivative contracts designated as cash flow hedges to fix the purchase price of anticipated volumes of commodities to be purchased and processed in a future month, to fix the purchase price of the Companys anticipated natural gas requirements for certain production facilities, and to fix the sales price of anticipated volumes of ethanol. The change in the market value of such derivative contracts has historically been, and is expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. If it is determined that the derivative instruments used are no longer effective at offsetting changes in the price of the hedged item, then the changes in the market value of these exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts would be recorded in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. Employee Benefit Plans The Company provides substantially all domestic employees and employees at certain international subsidiaries with pension benefits. The Company also provides substantially all domestic salaried employees with postretirement health care and life insurance benefits. In order to measure the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans, management makes several estimates and assumptions, including interest rates used to discount certain liabilities, rates of return on assets set aside to fund these plans, rates of compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and anticipated future health care costs. These estimates and assumptions are based on the Companys historical experience combined with managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Management also uses third party actuaries to assist in measuring the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans. If management used different estimates and assumptions regarding these plans, the funded status of the plans could vary significantly, and the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Income Taxes The Company frequently faces challenges from domestic and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company records reserves for estimates of potential additional tax owed by the Company. Deferred tax assets represent items to be used as tax deductions or credits in future tax returns, and the related tax benefit has already been recognized in the Companys income statement. Realization of certain deferred tax assets reflects the Companys tax planning strategies. Valuation allowances related to these deferred tax assets have been established to the extent the realization of the tax benefit is not probable. Based on managements evaluation of the Companys tax position, it is believed the amounts related to these tax exposures are appropriately accrued. To the extent the Company were to favorably resolve matters for which accruals have been established or be required to pay amounts in excess of the aforementioned reserves, the Companys effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be impacted. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and affiliated corporate joint ventures accounted for on the equity method are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by unpredictable factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned unpredictable factors, therefore, may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and profitability of the Companys asset base in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its factories. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment, technology, and companies related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. The Company evaluates goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives for impairment annually. Assets are written down after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these assets, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Valuation of Marketable Securities and Investments in Affiliates The Company classifies the majority of its marketable securities as available for sale and carries these securities at fair value. Investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings and are adjusted, where appropriate, for amortizable basis differences between the investment balance and the underlying net assets of the investee. For publicly traded securities, the fair value of the Companys investments is readily available based on quoted market prices. For non publicly traded securities, managements assessment of fair value is based on valuation methodologies including discounted cash flows and estimates of sales proceeds. In the event of a decline in fair value of an investment below carrying value, management may be required to determine if the decline in fair value is other than temporary. In evaluating the nature of a decline in the fair value of an investment, management considers the market conditions, trends of earnings, discounted cash flows, trading volumes, and other key measures of the investment as well as the Companys ability and intent to hold the investment. When such a decline in value is deemed to be other than temporary, an impairment loss is recognized in the current period operating results to the extent of the decline. See Notes 3 and 5 to the Companys consolidated financial statements for information regarding the Companys marketable securities and investments in affiliates. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these marketable securities, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in: commodity market prices as they relate to the Companys net commodity position, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and price of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to unpredictable factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. To reduce price risk caused by market fluctuations, the Company generally follows a policy of using exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts to minimize its net position of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories and forward cash purchase and sales contracts. The Company will also use exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the volatility of the relationship between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contracts defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company from time to time enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. A sensitivity analysis has been prepared to estimate the Companys exposure to market risk of its daily net commodity position. The Companys daily net commodity position consists of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, related purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts, including those contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements. The fair value of such daily net commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing each net position at quoted futures prices. Market risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in such prices. Actual results may differ. 2008 2007 Long/(Short) Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest position $ 1,260 $ 126 $ 703 $ 70 Lowest position (915 ) (92 ) (565 ) (57 ) Average position 251 25 180 18 The change in fair value of the average position for 2008 compared to 2007 was principally a result of increases in commodity prices and, to a lesser extent, quantities underlying the daily net commodity position. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) Currencies In order to reduce the risk of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, except for amounts permanently invested as described below, the Company follows a policy of entering into currency exchange forward contracts to mitigate its foreign currency risk related to transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currencies applicable to each of its various entities. The instruments used are forward contracts, swaps with banks, and exchange traded futures contracts. The changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $7.0 billion at June 30, 2008, and $5.4 billion at June 30, 2007. This increase is due to an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and appreciation of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar. The potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $695 million and $543 million for 2008 and 2007, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical .5% decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2008 2007 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 7,789 $ 4,862 Excess of fair value over carrying value 99 110 Market risk 308 232 The increase in fair value of long term debt in 2008 resulted principally from the Companys issuance of approximately $3.1 billion in long term debt in 2008. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Corn Processing operating profits decreased 13% to $961 million, primarily due to higher net corn costs. Sweeteners and Starches operating profits of $529 were relatively unchanged as higher average selling prices were offset by higher net corn costs and increased manufacturing costs. Manufacturing cost increases reflect higher energy costs, higher repair and maintenance expenses, and higher costs for chemicals used in the manufacturing process. Bioproducts operating profits decreased 28% to $432 million primarily due to higher net corn costs, higher manufacturing expenses, and decreased average ethanol selling prices, partially offset by higher sales volumes for ethanol and, to a lesser extent, higher average lysine selling prices and higher lysine sales volumes. Agricultural Services operating profits increased 89% to $1.0 billion. 2007 operating profits in Merchandising and Handling include a $153 million gain on the sale of the Companys interest in Agricore United. Excluding this gain, Merchandising and Handling operating profits increased 281% to $873 million. This increase was primarily due to enhanced merchandising and handling margins caused by volatile global grain and freight markets, favorable risk management results, and to a lesser extent, increased sales volumes. Transportation operating profits decreased 8% to $144 million primarily due to increased fuel costs. Other operating profits increased 12% to $423 million. Wheat, Cocoa and Malt operating profits increased 4% to $217 million. 2007 operating profits for Wheat included a gain of $39 million from the sale of the Companys Arkady food ingredient business. Excluding the Arkady gain, Wheat, Cocoa and Malt operating profits improved 28%, primarily due to improved wheat and malt margins reflecting increased demand, partially offset by decreased cocoa processing margins reflecting higher raw material and operating costs and competitive pressures experienced in the North American chocolate market. Financial operating profits improved 21% to $206 million primarily due to improvements in the Companys futures commission merchant business. Corporate expense increased $810 million to $817 million, primarily due to a $362 million increase in the charge related to the effects of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations, a $371 million decrease in realized securities gains primarily reflecting the $357 million gain recorded in 2007 from sales of the Companys equity securities of Tyson Foods, Inc. and Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc., a $51 million increase in corporate expenses due principally to reorganization and realignment costs, partially offset by a charge of $46 million recorded in 2007 related to the repurchase of $400 million of the Companys outstanding debentures. Income taxes decreased primarily due to lower pretax earnings. The Companys effective tax rate during 2008 of 31.3% was comparable to the 2007 rate of 31.5%. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) 2007 Compared to 2006 As an agricultural based commodity business, the Company is subject to a variety of market factors which affect the Companys operating results. Strong biodiesel demand in Europe continued to create increased vegetable oil demand and positively impacted rapeseed crushing margins in Europe. Abundant oilseed supplies, improved vegetable oil values, and strong protein meal demand have positively impacted oilseed crushing margins in North America. Increased ethanol contracted selling prices, continuing strong ethanol demand, and solid demand for sweetener and starch products improved corn processing results. These increases in corn processing results were partially offset by higher net corn costs. Global grain merchandising opportunities resulting from regional production imbalances also improved operating results. North American river transportation operations were favorably impacted by strong demand for river transportation services which increased barge freight rates. Increasing commodity price levels resulted in larger LIFO inventory valuation reserves. Net earnings increased due principally to improved operating results in all of the Companys operating segments. Earnings before income taxes for 2007 include a gain of $440 million related to the exchange of the Companys interests in certain Asian joint ventures for shares of Wilmar International Limited (the Wilmar Gain), a $357 million realized securities gain from sales of the Companys equity securities of Tyson Foods, Inc. and Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc., a gain of $153 million from the sale of the Companys interest in Agricore United and a $53 million gain from the sale of the Companys Arkady food ingredient business. Earnings before income taxes for 2007 also include charges of $207 million from the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations, $46 million related to the repurchase of $400 million of the Companys outstanding debentures, and $21 million related to abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Net earnings for 2006 include a $36 million reduction in income tax expense related to the recognition of federal and state income tax credits and adjustments resulting from the reconciliation of filed tax returns to the previously estimated tax provision. Earnings before income taxes for 2006 include charges of $15 million resulting from the Companys adoption of Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation No. 47, Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations, an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 143 (FIN 47), $71 million related to abandonment and write down of long lived assets, $9 million representing the Companys share of a charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets reported by an unconsolidated affiliate of the Company, and $22 million associated with the closure of a citric acid plant and exiting the European animal feed business. Earnings before income taxes for 2006 also include credits of $12 million from the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations, $17 million from the sale of long lived assets, $46 million related to Brazilian transactional tax credits, and $40 million related to realized securities gains. Analysis of Statements of Earnings Net sales and other operating income increased 20% to $44.0 billion due primarily to increased selling prices of agricultural commodities, oilseed and corn processing products and, to a lesser extent, increased sales volumes of agricultural commodities and oilseed processing products. In addition, net sales and other operating income increased $916 million, or 3%, due to currency exchange rate fluctuations. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Net sales and other operating income by segment are as follows: 2007 2006 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing & Origination $ 8,036 $ 7,048 $ 988 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel & Other 5,758 4,726 1,032 Asia 149 119 30 Total Oilseeds Processing 13,943 11,893 2,050 Corn Processing Sweeteners & Starches 2,761 2,529 232 Bioproducts 3,064 2,727 337 Total Corn Processing 5,825 5,256 569 Agricultural Services Merchandising & Handling 20,222 15,954 4,268 Transportation 197 201 (4 ) Total Agricultural Services 20,419 16,155 4,264 Other Wheat, Cocoa, & Malt 3,738 3,217 521 Financial 93 75 18 Total Other 3,831 3,292 539 Total $ 44,018 $ 36,596 $ 7,422 Oilseeds Processing sales increased 17% to $13.9 billion due principally to increased average selling prices of vegetable oil and increased sales volumes of vegetable oil and biodiesel. Vegetable oil selling prices and volumes improved as the markets anticipated new demand from the developing United States biodiesel industry. Biodiesel sales volumes increased due to additional production capacity. Corn Processing sales increased 11% to $5.8 billion due principally to increased sales of Bioproducts and, to a lesser extent, increased sales of Sweeteners and Starches. Bioproducts sales increased primarily due to higher average selling prices of ethanol, partially offset by lower sales volumes. Ethanol average selling prices increased primarily due to higher gasoline prices. Ethanol sales volumes decreased as 2006 sales volumes exceeded production due to the release of inventories built up in anticipation of refiners replacing MTBE with ethanol. Sweeteners and Starches sales increased primarily due to higher average selling prices resulting from good demand for sweetener and starch products. Agricultural Services sales increased 26% to $20.4 billion due principally to increased agricultural commodity prices and increased sales volumes. The increase in commodity prices was primarily due to higher average market prices of corn in North America which had increased 60% from the prior year. Increased sales volumes of global grain merchandising activities also contributed to the increase in Agricultural Services sales. Other sales increased 16% to $3.8 billion primarily due to higher average selling prices of wheat flour products and, to a lesser extent, increased sales volumes and higher average selling prices of cocoa products. Cost of products sold increased 21% to $40.8 billion primarily due to higher average costs of agricultural commodities and increased sales volumes. Manufacturing costs for 2007 and 2006 include a $21 million and $62 million charge, respectively, for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. In addition, cost of products sold increased $874 million, or 3%, due to currency exchange rate fluctuations. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Selling, general, and administrative expenses of $1.2 billion were comparable to 2006 and included $25 million of currency exchange rate increases. Excluding the impact of currency exchange rate increases, selling, general and administrative expenses decreased $23 million due principally to 2006 selling, general and administrative expenses including $20 million of severance costs associated with the closure of a citric acid plant. During 2007 and 2006, the Company issued option grants and restricted stock awards to officers and key employees pursuant to the Companys Long term Management Incentive Program. Certain officers and key employees of the Company receiving option grants and restricted stock awards were eligible for retirement. Compensation expense related to option grants and restricted stock awards issued to these retirement eligible employees is recognized in earnings on the date of grant. Selling, general, and administrative expense for 2007 and 2006 includes compensation expense related to option grants and restricted stock awards granted to retirement eligible employees of $30 million and $31 million, respectively. Other income net increased $1.0 billion primarily due to the $440 million Wilmar Gain, a $357 million gain on the sale of the Companys equity securities of Tyson Foods, Inc. and Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc., a $153 million gain on the sale of the Companys interest in Agricore United, and a $53 million gain on the sale of the Companys Arkady food ingredient business. Other income net also includes a $46 million charge related to the repurchase of $400 million of the Companys outstanding debentures in 2007. Excluding these items, other income net increased $73 million primarily due to a $120 million increase in equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates, and a $53 million increase in investment income, partially offset by a $69 million increase in interest expense and a $27 million reduction in gains on sales of long lived assets. The increase in equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates was primarily due to higher valuations of the Companys private equity fund investments and improved operating results of the Companys Asian oilseed ventures. Interest expense and investment income increased primarily due to increased average borrowing and investment levels. Operating profit by segment is as follows: 2007 2006 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing & Origination $ 414 $ 376 $ 38 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel & Other 202 140 62 Asia 523 53 470 Total Oilseeds Processing 1,139 569 570 Corn Processing Sweeteners & Starches 509 458 51 Bioproducts 596 443 153 Total Corn Processing 1,105 901 204 Agricultural Services Merchandising & Handling 382 94 288 Transportation 156 143 13 Total Agricultural Services 538 237 301 Other Wheat, Cocoa, & Malt 209 228 (19 ) Financial 170 126 44 Total Other 379 354 25 Total Segment Operating Profit 3,161 2,061 1,100 Corporate (7 ) (206 ) 199 Earnings Before Income Taxes $ 3,154 $ 1,855 $ 1,299 Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Oilseeds Processing operating profits increased $570 million to $1.1 billion due principally to the $440 million Wilmar Gain and improved market conditions in all geographic regions. North American processing results improved due principally to abundant oilseed supplies in the United States and good demand for vegetable oil and soybean meal. Vegetable oil values improved as the markets anticipated new demand from the developing United States biodiesel industry. North American processing results were also favorably impacted by lower plant operating costs resulting from improved capacity utilization. Asian joint venture results improved due to improved palm processing operating results partially offset by decreased soy crushing operating results. European processing results improved due principally to abundant oilseed supplies in Europe and strong demand for vegetable oil. The strong demand for vegetable oil is the result of strong biodiesel demand. These increases were partially offset by decreased biodiesel operating profits resulting from higher vegetable oil prices, increased market production capacity, and lower diesel fuel prices. South American processing results declined due principally to the $27 million credit for Brazilian transactional taxes in 2006. Excluding the impact of the credit for Brazilian transactional taxes, South American processing results improved due principally to increased fertilizer margins. The improvement in fertilizer margins was primarily due to higher average sales prices due to improved fertilizer demand combined with stable raw material costs. Operating profits for 2007 include a $6 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Operating profits for 2006 include a $14 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets and a $6 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47. Corn Processing operating profits increased $204 million to $1.1 billion due principally to higher average selling prices and lower energy costs, partially offset by lower ethanol sales volumes and higher net corn costs. Net corn costs increased approximately 60% during 2007 due to significant anticipated demand increases for corn resulting primarily from increasing corn derived ethanol industry capacity. Agricultural commodity market concerns regarding the expected decline in the ending 2006 corn crop carryover also contributed to the increase in corn costs. Sweeteners and Starches operating profits increased $51 million primarily due to higher average sales prices and lower energy costs. Sales prices increased due principally to good demand for sweetener and starch products. These increases were partially offset by increased net corn costs. Sweeteners and Starches operating profits for 2006 include a $5 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47. Bioproducts operating profits increased $153 million primarily due to higher ethanol average selling prices and lower energy costs, partially offset by increased net corn costs and lower ethanol sales volumes. Ethanol average sales prices increased due principally to strong demand from gasoline refiners and higher gasoline prices. Ethanol sales volumes decreased as 2006 sales volumes exceeded production due to the release of inventories built up in anticipation of refiners replacing MTBE with ethanol. Bioproducts operating results for 2007 include a $1 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Bioproducts operating results for 2006 include a $6 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets, a $2 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47, and $6 million of costs related to the closure of a citric acid plant. Agricultural Services operating profits increased $301 million to $538 million due principally to a $153 million gain from the sale of the Companys interest in Agricore United, a Canadian business which specialized in crop input, crop protection services, and grain marketing and merchandising. Excluding the Agricore United gain, Agricultural Services operating profits increased $148 million to $385 million due principally to improved global grain merchandising operating results and, to a lesser extent, improved transportation and North American origination operating results. Global grain merchandising results improved as regional production imbalances allowed the Company to capitalize on merchandising opportunities. North American river transportation operating results increased primarily due to increased barge freight rates created by strong demand for barge capacity. North American origination operating results improved due to good export demand for agricultural commodities and higher ocean freight rates. Agricultural Services operating profits for 2007 include a $12 million trade disruption insurance recovery related to Hurricane Katrina. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Other operating profits increased $25 million to $379 million. Wheat, Cocoa, and Malt operating profits decreased $19 million. Wheat operating profits include a $39 million gain on the sale of the Companys Arkady food ingredient business in 2007 and a $17 million gain from the sale of long lived assets in 2006. Excluding the effect of these one time gains, Wheat, Cocoa, and Malt operating profits declined $41 million primarily due to cocoa operating results declining from prior year levels and to a lesser extent, weaker equity earnings from our investment in Gruma S.A. partially offset by improved operating results of the Companys wheat flour processing operations. Cocoa processing operating results declined primarily due to increased industry production capacity which caused downward pressure on cocoa processing margins. Financial operating profits increased $44 million due principally to increased valuations of the Companys private equity fund investments and higher operating results of the Companys futures commission merchant business, partially offset by lower operating results of the Companys captive insurance operations. The results of the Companys captive insurance operations for 2007 include a $12 million charge related to a Hurricane Katrina trade disruption insurance settlement. Corporate expense decreased $199 million to $7 million due principally to a $345 million increase in realized securities gains principally resulting from sales of the Companys equity securities of Tyson Foods, Inc. and Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc. and a $103 million reduction in unallocated interest expense due principally to higher levels of invested funds and higher interest rates. These decreases were partially offset by a $207 million charge, compared to a $12 million credit in the prior year, related to the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations and a $46 million charge related to the repurchase of $400 million of the Companys outstanding debentures. Income taxes increased due principally to higher pretax earnings and the absence of a $36 million income tax credit in 2006 related to the recognition of federal and state income tax credits and adjustments resulting from the reconciliation of filed tax returns to the previously estimated tax provision. The Companys effective tax rate during 2007 was 31.5% and, after excluding the effect of the 2006 $36 million tax credit, was 31.2% for the prior year. The increase in the Companys effective tax rate was primarily due to changes in the geographic mix of pretax earnings. Liquidity and Capital Resources A Company objective is to have sufficient liquidity, balance sheet strength, and financial flexibility to fund the operating and capital requirements of a capital intensive agricultural based commodity business. At June 30, 2008, the Company had $1.3 billion of cash, cash equivalents, and short term marketable securities and a current ratio, defined as current assets divided by current liabilities, of 1.7 to 1. Included in working capital is $7.8 billion of readily marketable commodity inventories. Cash used in operating activities totaled $3.2 billion for the year compared to $303 million cash generated from operations last year. This change was primarily due to an increase in working capital requirements principally related to increased market prices and, to a lesser extent, increased quantities of agricultural commodity inventories, principally readily marketable commodity inventories, and increased receivables. Cash used in investing activities increased $1.5 billion for the year to $1.9 billion primarily due to increased capital expenditures and decreased proceeds from sales of businesses including the sale of the Companys equity interests in Tyson Foods, Inc., Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc. and Agricore United in 2007. Cash generated by financing activities was $5.2 billion compared to cash used in financing activities of $398 million last year. Net long term borrowings increased primarily as a result of the issuance in 2008 of approximately $3.1 billion of additional long term debt, including $500 million of debentures issued in December 2007, $700 million of notes issued in March 2008, and $1.75 billion of debentures in June 2008, compared to $1.15 billion of convertible senior notes issued in February 2007, partially offset by $480 million of reduced debt payments principally related to the Companys retirement of $400 million of debentures in 2007. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Capital resources were strengthened in 2008 as shown by the increase in the Companys net worth from $11.3 billion to $13.5 billion. The Companys ratio of long term debt to total capital (the sum of the Companys long term debt and shareholders equity) was 36% at June 30, 2008, and 30% at June 30, 2007. This ratio is a measure of the Companys long term liquidity and is an indicator of financial flexibility. The Company currently has $7.4 billion of commercial paper and commercial bank lines available to meet seasonal cash requirements of which $5.2 billion are committed and $2.2 billion are uncommitted. At June 30, 2008, the Company had $3.1 billion of short term debt outstanding. Standard & Poors, Moodys, and Fitch rate the Companys commercial paper as A 1, P 1, and F1, respectively, and rate the Companys long term debt as A, A2, and A, respectively. In addition to the cash flow generated from operations, the Company has access to equity and debt capital through numerous alternatives from public and private sources in domestic and international markets. The Company has outstanding $1.15 billion principal amount of convertible senior notes. As of June 30, 2008, none of the conditions permitting conversion of the notes had been satisfied. As of June 30, 2008, the market price of the Companys common stock was not greater than the exercise price of the purchased call options or warrants related to the convertible senior notes. In June 2008, the Company issued $1.75 billion of debentures as a component of Equity Units. The Equity Units are a combination of (a) debt and (b) forward contracts for the holder to purchase the Companys common stock. The purchase contracts obligate the holder to purchase from the Company, no later than June 1, 2011, for a price of $50 in cash, a certain number of shares, ranging from 1.0453 shares to 1.2544 shares, of the Companys common stock, based on a formula established in the contract. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements In the normal course of business, the Company enters into contracts and commitments which obligate the Company to make payments in the future. The following table sets forth the Companys significant future obligations by time period. Purchases include commodity based contracts entered into in the normal course of business, which are further described in Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, energy related purchase contracts entered into in the normal course of business, and other purchase obligations related to the Companys normal business activities. Where applicable, information included in the Companys consolidated financial statements and notes is cross referenced in this table. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Payments Due by Period Contractual Note Less than 1 3 3 5 More than Obligations Reference Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years (In millions) Purchases Inventories $ 24,230 $ 22,813 $ 1,200 $ 174 $ 43 Energy 952 502 302 80 68 Other 148 58 60 18 12 Total purchases 25,330 23,373 1,562 272 123 Short term debt Note 7 3,123 3,123 Long term debt Note 7 7,993 232 358 380 7,023 Estimated interest payments 9,639 511 808 758 7,562 Operating leases Note 12 1,364 403 402 239 320 Estimated pension and other postretirement plan contributions Note 13 1,217 90 204 229 694 Total $ 48,666 $ 27,732 $ 3,334 $ 1,878 $ 15,722 At June 30, 2008, the Company estimates it will spend approximately $2.5 billion over the next five years to complete currently approved capital projects and acquisitions which is not included in the table above. The Company is a limited partner in various private equity funds which invest primarily in emerging markets. At June 30, 2008, the Companys carrying value of these limited partnership investments was $129 million. The Company has future capital commitments related to these partnerships of $137 million and expects the majority of these additional capital commitments, if called for, to be funded by cash flows generated by the partnerships. The Company also has outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds of $500 million at June 30, 2008. In addition, the Company has entered into agreements, primarily debt guarantee agreements related to equity method investees, which could obligate the Company to make future payments. The Companys liability under these agreements arises only if the primary entity fails to perform its contractual obligation. The Company has collateral for a portion of these contingent obligations. At June 30, 2008, these contingent obligations totaled approximately $135 million. Amounts outstanding for the primary entity under these contingent obligations were $62 million at June 30, 2008. Critical Accounting Policies The process of preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the carrying values of the Companys assets and liabilities as well as the recognition of revenues and expenses. These estimates and judgments are based on the Companys historical experience and managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Certain of the Companys accounting policies are considered critical, as these policies are important to the depiction of the Companys financial statements and require significant or complex judgment by management. Management has discussed with the Companys Audit Committee the development, selection, disclosure, and application of these critical accounting policies. Following are the accounting policies management considers critical to the Companys financial statements. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Inventories and Derivatives Certain of the Companys merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, forward fixed price purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts are valued at estimated market values. These merchandisable agricultural commodities are freely traded, have quoted market prices, and may be sold without significant additional processing. Management estimates market value based on exchange quoted prices, adjusted for differences in local markets. Changes in the market values of these inventories and contracts are recognized in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. If management used different methods or factors to estimate market value, amounts reported as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. Additionally, if market conditions change subsequent to year end, amounts reported in future periods as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. The Company, from time to time, uses derivative contracts designated as cash flow hedges to fix the purchase price of anticipated volumes of commodities to be purchased and processed in a future month, to fix the purchase price of the Companys anticipated natural gas requirements for certain production facilities, and to fix the sales price of anticipated volumes of ethanol. The change in the market value of such derivative contracts has historically been, and is expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. If it is determined that the derivative instruments used are no longer effective at offsetting changes in the price of the hedged item, then the changes in the market value of these exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts would be recorded in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. Employee Benefit Plans The Company provides substantially all domestic employees and employees at certain international subsidiaries with pension benefits. The Company also provides substantially all domestic salaried employees with postretirement health care and life insurance benefits. In order to measure the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans, management makes several estimates and assumptions, including interest rates used to discount certain liabilities, rates of return on assets set aside to fund these plans, rates of compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and anticipated future health care costs. These estimates and assumptions are based on the Companys historical experience combined with managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Management also uses third party actuaries to assist in measuring the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans. If management used different estimates and assumptions regarding these plans, the funded status of the plans could vary significantly, and the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Income Taxes The Company frequently faces challenges from domestic and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company records reserves for estimates of potential additional tax owed by the Company. Deferred tax assets represent items to be used as tax deductions or credits in future tax returns, and the related tax benefit has already been recognized in the Companys income statement. Realization of certain deferred tax assets reflects the Companys tax planning strategies. Valuation allowances related to these deferred tax assets have been established to the extent the realization of the tax benefit is not probable. Based on managements evaluation of the Companys tax position, it is believed the amounts related to these tax exposures are appropriately accrued. To the extent the Company were to favorably resolve matters for which accruals have been established or be required to pay amounts in excess of the aforementioned reserves, the Companys effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be impacted. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and affiliated corporate joint ventures accounted for on the equity method are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by unpredictable factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned unpredictable factors, therefore, may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and profitability of the Companys asset base in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its factories. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment, technology, and companies related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. The Company evaluates goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives for impairment annually. Assets are written down after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these assets, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Valuation of Marketable Securities and Investments in Affiliates The Company classifies the majority of its marketable securities as available for sale and carries these securities at fair value. Investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings and are adjusted, where appropriate, for amortizable basis differences between the investment balance and the underlying net assets of the investee. For publicly traded securities, the fair value of the Companys investments is readily available based on quoted market prices. For non publicly traded securities, managements assessment of fair value is based on valuation methodologies including discounted cash flows and estimates of sales proceeds. In the event of a decline in fair value of an investment below carrying value, management may be required to determine if the decline in fair value is other than temporary. In evaluating the nature of a decline in the fair value of an investment, management considers the market conditions, trends of earnings, discounted cash flows, trading volumes, and other key measures of the investment as well as the Companys ability and intent to hold the investment. When such a decline in value is deemed to be other than temporary, an impairment loss is recognized in the current period operating results to the extent of the decline. See Notes 3 and 5 to the Companys consolidated financial statements for information regarding the Companys marketable securities and investments in affiliates. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these marketable securities, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in: commodity market prices as they relate to the Companys net commodity position, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and price of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to unpredictable factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. To reduce price risk caused by market fluctuations, the Company generally follows a policy of using exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts to minimize its net position of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories and forward cash purchase and sales contracts. The Company will also use exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the volatility of the relationship between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contracts defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company from time to time enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. A sensitivity analysis has been prepared to estimate the Companys exposure to market risk of its daily net commodity position. The Companys daily net commodity position consists of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, related purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts, including those contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements. The fair value of such daily net commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing each net position at quoted futures prices. Market risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in such prices. Actual results may differ. 2008 2007 Long/(Short) Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest position $ 1,260 $ 126 $ 703 $ 70 Lowest position (915 ) (92 ) (565 ) (57 ) Average position 251 25 180 18 The change in fair value of the average position for 2008 compared to 2007 was principally a result of increases in commodity prices and, to a lesser extent, quantities underlying the daily net commodity position. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) Currencies In order to reduce the risk of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, except for amounts permanently invested as described below, the Company follows a policy of entering into currency exchange forward contracts to mitigate its foreign currency risk related to transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currencies applicable to each of its various entities. The instruments used are forward contracts, swaps with banks, and exchange traded futures contracts. The changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $7.0 billion at June 30, 2008, and $5.4 billion at June 30, 2007. This increase is due to an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and appreciation of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar. The potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $695 million and $543 million for 2008 and 2007, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical .5% decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2008 2007 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 7,789 $ 4,862 Excess of fair value over carrying value 99 110 Market risk 308 232 The increase in fair value of long term debt in 2008 resulted principally from the Companys issuance of approximately $3.1 billion in long term debt in 2008. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) 2007 Compared to 2006 As an agricultural based commodity business, the Company is subject to a variety of market factors which affect the Companys operating results. Strong biodiesel demand in Europe continued to create increased vegetable oil demand and positively impacted rapeseed crushing margins in Europe. Abundant oilseed supplies, improved vegetable oil values, and strong protein meal demand have positively impacted oilseed crushing margins in North America. Increased ethanol contracted selling prices, continuing strong ethanol demand, and solid demand for sweetener and starch products improved corn processing results. These increases in corn processing results were partially offset by higher net corn costs. Global grain merchandising opportunities resulting from regional production imbalances also improved operating results. North American river transportation operations were favorably impacted by strong demand for river transportation services which increased barge freight rates. Increasing commodity price levels resulted in larger LIFO inventory valuation reserves. Net earnings increased due principally to improved operating results in all of the Companys operating segments. Earnings before income taxes for 2007 include a gain of $440 million related to the exchange of the Companys interests in certain Asian joint ventures for shares of Wilmar International Limited (the Wilmar Gain), a $357 million realized securities gain from sales of the Companys equity securities of Tyson Foods, Inc. and Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc., a gain of $153 million from the sale of the Companys interest in Agricore United and a $53 million gain from the sale of the Companys Arkady food ingredient business. Earnings before income taxes for 2007 also include charges of $207 million from the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations, $46 million related to the repurchase of $400 million of the Companys outstanding debentures, and $21 million related to abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Net earnings for 2006 include a $36 million reduction in income tax expense related to the recognition of federal and state income tax credits and adjustments resulting from the reconciliation of filed tax returns to the previously estimated tax provision. Earnings before income taxes for 2006 include charges of $15 million resulting from the Companys adoption of Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation No. 47, Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations, an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 143 (FIN 47), $71 million related to abandonment and write down of long lived assets, $9 million representing the Companys share of a charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets reported by an unconsolidated affiliate of the Company, and $22 million associated with the closure of a citric acid plant and exiting the European animal feed business. Earnings before income taxes for 2006 also include credits of $12 million from the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations, $17 million from the sale of long lived assets, $46 million related to Brazilian transactional tax credits, and $40 million related to realized securities gains. Analysis of Statements of Earnings Net sales and other operating income increased 20% to $44.0 billion due primarily to increased selling prices of agricultural commodities, oilseed and corn processing products and, to a lesser extent, increased sales volumes of agricultural commodities and oilseed processing products. In addition, net sales and other operating income increased $916 million, or 3%, due to currency exchange rate fluctuations. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Net sales and other operating income by segment are as follows: 2007 2006 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing & Origination $ 8,036 $ 7,048 $ 988 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel & Other 5,758 4,726 1,032 Asia 149 119 30 Total Oilseeds Processing 13,943 11,893 2,050 Corn Processing Sweeteners & Starches 2,761 2,529 232 Bioproducts 3,064 2,727 337 Total Corn Processing 5,825 5,256 569 Agricultural Services Merchandising & Handling 20,222 15,954 4,268 Transportation 197 201 (4 ) Total Agricultural Services 20,419 16,155 4,264 Other Wheat, Cocoa, & Malt 3,738 3,217 521 Financial 93 75 18 Total Other 3,831 3,292 539 Total $ 44,018 $ 36,596 $ 7,422 Oilseeds Processing sales increased 17% to $13.9 billion due principally to increased average selling prices of vegetable oil and increased sales volumes of vegetable oil and biodiesel. Vegetable oil selling prices and volumes improved as the markets anticipated new demand from the developing United States biodiesel industry. Biodiesel sales volumes increased due to additional production capacity. Corn Processing sales increased 11% to $5.8 billion due principally to increased sales of Bioproducts and, to a lesser extent, increased sales of Sweeteners and Starches. Bioproducts sales increased primarily due to higher average selling prices of ethanol, partially offset by lower sales volumes. Ethanol average selling prices increased primarily due to higher gasoline prices. Ethanol sales volumes decreased as 2006 sales volumes exceeded production due to the release of inventories built up in anticipation of refiners replacing MTBE with ethanol. Sweeteners and Starches sales increased primarily due to higher average selling prices resulting from good demand for sweetener and starch products. Agricultural Services sales increased 26% to $20.4 billion due principally to increased agricultural commodity prices and increased sales volumes. The increase in commodity prices was primarily due to higher average market prices of corn in North America which had increased 60% from the prior year. Increased sales volumes of global grain merchandising activities also contributed to the increase in Agricultural Services sales. Other sales increased 16% to $3.8 billion primarily due to higher average selling prices of wheat flour products and, to a lesser extent, increased sales volumes and higher average selling prices of cocoa products. Cost of products sold increased 21% to $40.8 billion primarily due to higher average costs of agricultural commodities and increased sales volumes. Manufacturing costs for 2007 and 2006 include a $21 million and $62 million charge, respectively, for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. In addition, cost of products sold increased $874 million, or 3%, due to currency exchange rate fluctuations. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Selling, general, and administrative expenses of $1.2 billion were comparable to 2006 and included $25 million of currency exchange rate increases. Excluding the impact of currency exchange rate increases, selling, general and administrative expenses decreased $23 million due principally to 2006 selling, general and administrative expenses including $20 million of severance costs associated with the closure of a citric acid plant. During 2007 and 2006, the Company issued option grants and restricted stock awards to officers and key employees pursuant to the Companys Long term Management Incentive Program. Certain officers and key employees of the Company receiving option grants and restricted stock awards were eligible for retirement. Compensation expense related to option grants and restricted stock awards issued to these retirement eligible employees is recognized in earnings on the date of grant. Selling, general, and administrative expense for 2007 and 2006 includes compensation expense related to option grants and restricted stock awards granted to retirement eligible employees of $30 million and $31 million, respectively. Other income net increased $1.0 billion primarily due to the $440 million Wilmar Gain, a $357 million gain on the sale of the Companys equity securities of Tyson Foods, Inc. and Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc., a $153 million gain on the sale of the Companys interest in Agricore United, and a $53 million gain on the sale of the Companys Arkady food ingredient business. Other income net also includes a $46 million charge related to the repurchase of $400 million of the Companys outstanding debentures in 2007. Excluding these items, other income net increased $73 million primarily due to a $120 million increase in equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates, and a $53 million increase in investment income, partially offset by a $69 million increase in interest expense and a $27 million reduction in gains on sales of long lived assets. The increase in equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates was primarily due to higher valuations of the Companys private equity fund investments and improved operating results of the Companys Asian oilseed ventures. Interest expense and investment income increased primarily due to increased average borrowing and investment levels. Operating profit by segment is as follows: 2007 2006 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing & Origination $ 414 $ 376 $ 38 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel & Other 202 140 62 Asia 523 53 470 Total Oilseeds Processing 1,139 569 570 Corn Processing Sweeteners & Starches 509 458 51 Bioproducts 596 443 153 Total Corn Processing 1,105 901 204 Agricultural Services Merchandising & Handling 382 94 288 Transportation 156 143 13 Total Agricultural Services 538 237 301 Other Wheat, Cocoa, & Malt 209 228 (19 ) Financial 170 126 44 Total Other 379 354 25 Total Segment Operating Profit 3,161 2,061 1,100 Corporate (7 ) (206 ) 199 Earnings Before Income Taxes $ 3,154 $ 1,855 $ 1,299 Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Oilseeds Processing operating profits increased $570 million to $1.1 billion due principally to the $440 million Wilmar Gain and improved market conditions in all geographic regions. North American processing results improved due principally to abundant oilseed supplies in the United States and good demand for vegetable oil and soybean meal. Vegetable oil values improved as the markets anticipated new demand from the developing United States biodiesel industry. North American processing results were also favorably impacted by lower plant operating costs resulting from improved capacity utilization. Asian joint venture results improved due to improved palm processing operating results partially offset by decreased soy crushing operating results. European processing results improved due principally to abundant oilseed supplies in Europe and strong demand for vegetable oil. The strong demand for vegetable oil is the result of strong biodiesel demand. These increases were partially offset by decreased biodiesel operating profits resulting from higher vegetable oil prices, increased market production capacity, and lower diesel fuel prices. South American processing results declined due principally to the $27 million credit for Brazilian transactional taxes in 2006. Excluding the impact of the credit for Brazilian transactional taxes, South American processing results improved due principally to increased fertilizer margins. The improvement in fertilizer margins was primarily due to higher average sales prices due to improved fertilizer demand combined with stable raw material costs. Operating profits for 2007 include a $6 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Operating profits for 2006 include a $14 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets and a $6 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47. Corn Processing operating profits increased $204 million to $1.1 billion due principally to higher average selling prices and lower energy costs, partially offset by lower ethanol sales volumes and higher net corn costs. Net corn costs increased approximately 60% during 2007 due to significant anticipated demand increases for corn resulting primarily from increasing corn derived ethanol industry capacity. Agricultural commodity market concerns regarding the expected decline in the ending 2006 corn crop carryover also contributed to the increase in corn costs. Sweeteners and Starches operating profits increased $51 million primarily due to higher average sales prices and lower energy costs. Sales prices increased due principally to good demand for sweetener and starch products. These increases were partially offset by increased net corn costs. Sweeteners and Starches operating profits for 2006 include a $5 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47. Bioproducts operating profits increased $153 million primarily due to higher ethanol average selling prices and lower energy costs, partially offset by increased net corn costs and lower ethanol sales volumes. Ethanol average sales prices increased due principally to strong demand from gasoline refiners and higher gasoline prices. Ethanol sales volumes decreased as 2006 sales volumes exceeded production due to the release of inventories built up in anticipation of refiners replacing MTBE with ethanol. Bioproducts operating results for 2007 include a $1 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Bioproducts operating results for 2006 include a $6 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets, a $2 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47, and $6 million of costs related to the closure of a citric acid plant. Agricultural Services operating profits increased $301 million to $538 million due principally to a $153 million gain from the sale of the Companys interest in Agricore United, a Canadian business which specialized in crop input, crop protection services, and grain marketing and merchandising. Excluding the Agricore United gain, Agricultural Services operating profits increased $148 million to $385 million due principally to improved global grain merchandising operating results and, to a lesser extent, improved transportation and North American origination operating results. Global grain merchandising results improved as regional production imbalances allowed the Company to capitalize on merchandising opportunities. North American river transportation operating results increased primarily due to increased barge freight rates created by strong demand for barge capacity. North American origination operating results improved due to good export demand for agricultural commodities and higher ocean freight rates. Agricultural Services operating profits for 2007 include a $12 million trade disruption insurance recovery related to Hurricane Katrina. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Other operating profits increased $25 million to $379 million. Wheat, Cocoa, and Malt operating profits decreased $19 million. Wheat operating profits include a $39 million gain on the sale of the Companys Arkady food ingredient business in 2007 and a $17 million gain from the sale of long lived assets in 2006. Excluding the effect of these one time gains, Wheat, Cocoa, and Malt operating profits declined $41 million primarily due to cocoa operating results declining from prior year levels and to a lesser extent, weaker equity earnings from our investment in Gruma S.A. partially offset by improved operating results of the Companys wheat flour processing operations. Cocoa processing operating results declined primarily due to increased industry production capacity which caused downward pressure on cocoa processing margins. Financial operating profits increased $44 million due principally to increased valuations of the Companys private equity fund investments and higher operating results of the Companys futures commission merchant business, partially offset by lower operating results of the Companys captive insurance operations. The results of the Companys captive insurance operations for 2007 include a $12 million charge related to a Hurricane Katrina trade disruption insurance settlement. Corporate expense decreased $199 million to $7 million due principally to a $345 million increase in realized securities gains principally resulting from sales of the Companys equity securities of Tyson Foods, Inc. and Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc. and a $103 million reduction in unallocated interest expense due principally to higher levels of invested funds and higher interest rates. These decreases were partially offset by a $207 million charge, compared to a $12 million credit in the prior year, related to the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations and a $46 million charge related to the repurchase of $400 million of the Companys outstanding debentures. Income taxes increased due principally to higher pretax earnings and the absence of a $36 million income tax credit in 2006 related to the recognition of federal and state income tax credits and adjustments resulting from the reconciliation of filed tax returns to the previously estimated tax provision. The Companys effective tax rate during 2007 was 31.5% and, after excluding the effect of the 2006 $36 million tax credit, was 31.2% for the prior year. The increase in the Companys effective tax rate was primarily due to changes in the geographic mix of pretax earnings. Liquidity and Capital Resources A Company objective is to have sufficient liquidity, balance sheet strength, and financial flexibility to fund the operating and capital requirements of a capital intensive agricultural based commodity business. At June 30, 2008, the Company had $1.3 billion of cash, cash equivalents, and short term marketable securities and a current ratio, defined as current assets divided by current liabilities, of 1.7 to 1. Included in working capital is $7.8 billion of readily marketable commodity inventories. Cash used in operating activities totaled $3.2 billion for the year compared to $303 million cash generated from operations last year. This change was primarily due to an increase in working capital requirements principally related to increased market prices and, to a lesser extent, increased quantities of agricultural commodity inventories, principally readily marketable commodity inventories, and increased receivables. Cash used in investing activities increased $1.5 billion for the year to $1.9 billion primarily due to increased capital expenditures and decreased proceeds from sales of businesses including the sale of the Companys equity interests in Tyson Foods, Inc., Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc. and Agricore United in 2007. Cash generated by financing activities was $5.2 billion compared to cash used in financing activities of $398 million last year. Net long term borrowings increased primarily as a result of the issuance in 2008 of approximately $3.1 billion of additional long term debt, including $500 million of debentures issued in December 2007, $700 million of notes issued in March 2008, and $1.75 billion of debentures in June 2008, compared to $1.15 billion of convertible senior notes issued in February 2007, partially offset by $480 million of reduced debt payments principally related to the Companys retirement of $400 million of debentures in 2007. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Capital resources were strengthened in 2008 as shown by the increase in the Companys net worth from $11.3 billion to $13.5 billion. The Companys ratio of long term debt to total capital (the sum of the Companys long term debt and shareholders equity) was 36% at June 30, 2008, and 30% at June 30, 2007. This ratio is a measure of the Companys long term liquidity and is an indicator of financial flexibility. The Company currently has $7.4 billion of commercial paper and commercial bank lines available to meet seasonal cash requirements of which $5.2 billion are committed and $2.2 billion are uncommitted. At June 30, 2008, the Company had $3.1 billion of short term debt outstanding. Standard & Poors, Moodys, and Fitch rate the Companys commercial paper as A 1, P 1, and F1, respectively, and rate the Companys long term debt as A, A2, and A, respectively. In addition to the cash flow generated from operations, the Company has access to equity and debt capital through numerous alternatives from public and private sources in domestic and international markets. The Company has outstanding $1.15 billion principal amount of convertible senior notes. As of June 30, 2008, none of the conditions permitting conversion of the notes had been satisfied. As of June 30, 2008, the market price of the Companys common stock was not greater than the exercise price of the purchased call options or warrants related to the convertible senior notes. In June 2008, the Company issued $1.75 billion of debentures as a component of Equity Units. The Equity Units are a combination of (a) debt and (b) forward contracts for the holder to purchase the Companys common stock. The purchase contracts obligate the holder to purchase from the Company, no later than June 1, 2011, for a price of $50 in cash, a certain number of shares, ranging from 1.0453 shares to 1.2544 shares, of the Companys common stock, based on a formula established in the contract. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements In the normal course of business, the Company enters into contracts and commitments which obligate the Company to make payments in the future. The following table sets forth the Companys significant future obligations by time period. Purchases include commodity based contracts entered into in the normal course of business, which are further described in Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, energy related purchase contracts entered into in the normal course of business, and other purchase obligations related to the Companys normal business activities. Where applicable, information included in the Companys consolidated financial statements and notes is cross referenced in this table. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Payments Due by Period Contractual Note Less than 1 3 3 5 More than Obligations Reference Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years (In millions) Purchases Inventories $ 24,230 $ 22,813 $ 1,200 $ 174 $ 43 Energy 952 502 302 80 68 Other 148 58 60 18 12 Total purchases 25,330 23,373 1,562 272 123 Short term debt Note 7 3,123 3,123 Long term debt Note 7 7,993 232 358 380 7,023 Estimated interest payments 9,639 511 808 758 7,562 Operating leases Note 12 1,364 403 402 239 320 Estimated pension and other postretirement plan contributions Note 13 1,217 90 204 229 694 Total $ 48,666 $ 27,732 $ 3,334 $ 1,878 $ 15,722 At June 30, 2008, the Company estimates it will spend approximately $2.5 billion over the next five years to complete currently approved capital projects and acquisitions which is not included in the table above. The Company is a limited partner in various private equity funds which invest primarily in emerging markets. At June 30, 2008, the Companys carrying value of these limited partnership investments was $129 million. The Company has future capital commitments related to these partnerships of $137 million and expects the majority of these additional capital commitments, if called for, to be funded by cash flows generated by the partnerships. The Company also has outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds of $500 million at June 30, 2008. In addition, the Company has entered into agreements, primarily debt guarantee agreements related to equity method investees, which could obligate the Company to make future payments. The Companys liability under these agreements arises only if the primary entity fails to perform its contractual obligation. The Company has collateral for a portion of these contingent obligations. At June 30, 2008, these contingent obligations totaled approximately $135 million. Amounts outstanding for the primary entity under these contingent obligations were $62 million at June 30, 2008. Critical Accounting Policies The process of preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the carrying values of the Companys assets and liabilities as well as the recognition of revenues and expenses. These estimates and judgments are based on the Companys historical experience and managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Certain of the Companys accounting policies are considered critical, as these policies are important to the depiction of the Companys financial statements and require significant or complex judgment by management. Management has discussed with the Companys Audit Committee the development, selection, disclosure, and application of these critical accounting policies. Following are the accounting policies management considers critical to the Companys financial statements. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Inventories and Derivatives Certain of the Companys merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, forward fixed price purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts are valued at estimated market values. These merchandisable agricultural commodities are freely traded, have quoted market prices, and may be sold without significant additional processing. Management estimates market value based on exchange quoted prices, adjusted for differences in local markets. Changes in the market values of these inventories and contracts are recognized in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. If management used different methods or factors to estimate market value, amounts reported as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. Additionally, if market conditions change subsequent to year end, amounts reported in future periods as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. The Company, from time to time, uses derivative contracts designated as cash flow hedges to fix the purchase price of anticipated volumes of commodities to be purchased and processed in a future month, to fix the purchase price of the Companys anticipated natural gas requirements for certain production facilities, and to fix the sales price of anticipated volumes of ethanol. The change in the market value of such derivative contracts has historically been, and is expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. If it is determined that the derivative instruments used are no longer effective at offsetting changes in the price of the hedged item, then the changes in the market value of these exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts would be recorded in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. Employee Benefit Plans The Company provides substantially all domestic employees and employees at certain international subsidiaries with pension benefits. The Company also provides substantially all domestic salaried employees with postretirement health care and life insurance benefits. In order to measure the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans, management makes several estimates and assumptions, including interest rates used to discount certain liabilities, rates of return on assets set aside to fund these plans, rates of compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and anticipated future health care costs. These estimates and assumptions are based on the Companys historical experience combined with managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Management also uses third party actuaries to assist in measuring the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans. If management used different estimates and assumptions regarding these plans, the funded status of the plans could vary significantly, and the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Income Taxes The Company frequently faces challenges from domestic and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company records reserves for estimates of potential additional tax owed by the Company. Deferred tax assets represent items to be used as tax deductions or credits in future tax returns, and the related tax benefit has already been recognized in the Companys income statement. Realization of certain deferred tax assets reflects the Companys tax planning strategies. Valuation allowances related to these deferred tax assets have been established to the extent the realization of the tax benefit is not probable. Based on managements evaluation of the Companys tax position, it is believed the amounts related to these tax exposures are appropriately accrued. To the extent the Company were to favorably resolve matters for which accruals have been established or be required to pay amounts in excess of the aforementioned reserves, the Companys effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be impacted. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and affiliated corporate joint ventures accounted for on the equity method are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by unpredictable factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned unpredictable factors, therefore, may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and profitability of the Companys asset base in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its factories. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment, technology, and companies related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. The Company evaluates goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives for impairment annually. Assets are written down after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these assets, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Valuation of Marketable Securities and Investments in Affiliates The Company classifies the majority of its marketable securities as available for sale and carries these securities at fair value. Investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings and are adjusted, where appropriate, for amortizable basis differences between the investment balance and the underlying net assets of the investee. For publicly traded securities, the fair value of the Companys investments is readily available based on quoted market prices. For non publicly traded securities, managements assessment of fair value is based on valuation methodologies including discounted cash flows and estimates of sales proceeds. In the event of a decline in fair value of an investment below carrying value, management may be required to determine if the decline in fair value is other than temporary. In evaluating the nature of a decline in the fair value of an investment, management considers the market conditions, trends of earnings, discounted cash flows, trading volumes, and other key measures of the investment as well as the Companys ability and intent to hold the investment. When such a decline in value is deemed to be other than temporary, an impairment loss is recognized in the current period operating results to the extent of the decline. See Notes 3 and 5 to the Companys consolidated financial statements for information regarding the Companys marketable securities and investments in affiliates. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these marketable securities, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in: commodity market prices as they relate to the Companys net commodity position, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and price of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to unpredictable factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. To reduce price risk caused by market fluctuations, the Company generally follows a policy of using exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts to minimize its net position of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories and forward cash purchase and sales contracts. The Company will also use exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the volatility of the relationship between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contracts defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company from time to time enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. A sensitivity analysis has been prepared to estimate the Companys exposure to market risk of its daily net commodity position. The Companys daily net commodity position consists of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, related purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts, including those contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements. The fair value of such daily net commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing each net position at quoted futures prices. Market risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in such prices. Actual results may differ. 2008 2007 Long/(Short) Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest position $ 1,260 $ 126 $ 703 $ 70 Lowest position (915 ) (92 ) (565 ) (57 ) Average position 251 25 180 18 The change in fair value of the average position for 2008 compared to 2007 was principally a result of increases in commodity prices and, to a lesser extent, quantities underlying the daily net commodity position. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) Currencies In order to reduce the risk of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, except for amounts permanently invested as described below, the Company follows a policy of entering into currency exchange forward contracts to mitigate its foreign currency risk related to transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currencies applicable to each of its various entities. The instruments used are forward contracts, swaps with banks, and exchange traded futures contracts. The changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $7.0 billion at June 30, 2008, and $5.4 billion at June 30, 2007. This increase is due to an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and appreciation of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar. The potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $695 million and $543 million for 2008 and 2007, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical .5% decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2008 2007 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 7,789 $ 4,862 Excess of fair value over carrying value 99 110 Market risk 308 232 The increase in fair value of long term debt in 2008 resulted principally from the Companys issuance of approximately $3.1 billion in long term debt in 2008. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Net sales and other operating income by segment are as follows: 2007 2006 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing & Origination $ 8,036 $ 7,048 $ 988 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel & Other 5,758 4,726 1,032 Asia 149 119 30 Total Oilseeds Processing 13,943 11,893 2,050 Corn Processing Sweeteners & Starches 2,761 2,529 232 Bioproducts 3,064 2,727 337 Total Corn Processing 5,825 5,256 569 Agricultural Services Merchandising & Handling 20,222 15,954 4,268 Transportation 197 201 (4 ) Total Agricultural Services 20,419 16,155 4,264 Other Wheat, Cocoa, & Malt 3,738 3,217 521 Financial 93 75 18 Total Other 3,831 3,292 539 Total $ 44,018 $ 36,596 $ 7,422 Oilseeds Processing sales increased 17% to $13.9 billion due principally to increased average selling prices of vegetable oil and increased sales volumes of vegetable oil and biodiesel. Vegetable oil selling prices and volumes improved as the markets anticipated new demand from the developing United States biodiesel industry. Biodiesel sales volumes increased due to additional production capacity. Corn Processing sales increased 11% to $5.8 billion due principally to increased sales of Bioproducts and, to a lesser extent, increased sales of Sweeteners and Starches. Bioproducts sales increased primarily due to higher average selling prices of ethanol, partially offset by lower sales volumes. Ethanol average selling prices increased primarily due to higher gasoline prices. Ethanol sales volumes decreased as 2006 sales volumes exceeded production due to the release of inventories built up in anticipation of refiners replacing MTBE with ethanol. Sweeteners and Starches sales increased primarily due to higher average selling prices resulting from good demand for sweetener and starch products. Agricultural Services sales increased 26% to $20.4 billion due principally to increased agricultural commodity prices and increased sales volumes. The increase in commodity prices was primarily due to higher average market prices of corn in North America which had increased 60% from the prior year. Increased sales volumes of global grain merchandising activities also contributed to the increase in Agricultural Services sales. Other sales increased 16% to $3.8 billion primarily due to higher average selling prices of wheat flour products and, to a lesser extent, increased sales volumes and higher average selling prices of cocoa products. Cost of products sold increased 21% to $40.8 billion primarily due to higher average costs of agricultural commodities and increased sales volumes. Manufacturing costs for 2007 and 2006 include a $21 million and $62 million charge, respectively, for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. In addition, cost of products sold increased $874 million, or 3%, due to currency exchange rate fluctuations. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Selling, general, and administrative expenses of $1.2 billion were comparable to 2006 and included $25 million of currency exchange rate increases. Excluding the impact of currency exchange rate increases, selling, general and administrative expenses decreased $23 million due principally to 2006 selling, general and administrative expenses including $20 million of severance costs associated with the closure of a citric acid plant. During 2007 and 2006, the Company issued option grants and restricted stock awards to officers and key employees pursuant to the Companys Long term Management Incentive Program. Certain officers and key employees of the Company receiving option grants and restricted stock awards were eligible for retirement. Compensation expense related to option grants and restricted stock awards issued to these retirement eligible employees is recognized in earnings on the date of grant. Selling, general, and administrative expense for 2007 and 2006 includes compensation expense related to option grants and restricted stock awards granted to retirement eligible employees of $30 million and $31 million, respectively. Other income net increased $1.0 billion primarily due to the $440 million Wilmar Gain, a $357 million gain on the sale of the Companys equity securities of Tyson Foods, Inc. and Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc., a $153 million gain on the sale of the Companys interest in Agricore United, and a $53 million gain on the sale of the Companys Arkady food ingredient business. Other income net also includes a $46 million charge related to the repurchase of $400 million of the Companys outstanding debentures in 2007. Excluding these items, other income net increased $73 million primarily due to a $120 million increase in equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates, and a $53 million increase in investment income, partially offset by a $69 million increase in interest expense and a $27 million reduction in gains on sales of long lived assets. The increase in equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates was primarily due to higher valuations of the Companys private equity fund investments and improved operating results of the Companys Asian oilseed ventures. Interest expense and investment income increased primarily due to increased average borrowing and investment levels. Operating profit by segment is as follows: 2007 2006 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing & Origination $ 414 $ 376 $ 38 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel & Other 202 140 62 Asia 523 53 470 Total Oilseeds Processing 1,139 569 570 Corn Processing Sweeteners & Starches 509 458 51 Bioproducts 596 443 153 Total Corn Processing 1,105 901 204 Agricultural Services Merchandising & Handling 382 94 288 Transportation 156 143 13 Total Agricultural Services 538 237 301 Other Wheat, Cocoa, & Malt 209 228 (19 ) Financial 170 126 44 Total Other 379 354 25 Total Segment Operating Profit 3,161 2,061 1,100 Corporate (7 ) (206 ) 199 Earnings Before Income Taxes $ 3,154 $ 1,855 $ 1,299 Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Oilseeds Processing operating profits increased $570 million to $1.1 billion due principally to the $440 million Wilmar Gain and improved market conditions in all geographic regions. North American processing results improved due principally to abundant oilseed supplies in the United States and good demand for vegetable oil and soybean meal. Vegetable oil values improved as the markets anticipated new demand from the developing United States biodiesel industry. North American processing results were also favorably impacted by lower plant operating costs resulting from improved capacity utilization. Asian joint venture results improved due to improved palm processing operating results partially offset by decreased soy crushing operating results. European processing results improved due principally to abundant oilseed supplies in Europe and strong demand for vegetable oil. The strong demand for vegetable oil is the result of strong biodiesel demand. These increases were partially offset by decreased biodiesel operating profits resulting from higher vegetable oil prices, increased market production capacity, and lower diesel fuel prices. South American processing results declined due principally to the $27 million credit for Brazilian transactional taxes in 2006. Excluding the impact of the credit for Brazilian transactional taxes, South American processing results improved due principally to increased fertilizer margins. The improvement in fertilizer margins was primarily due to higher average sales prices due to improved fertilizer demand combined with stable raw material costs. Operating profits for 2007 include a $6 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Operating profits for 2006 include a $14 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets and a $6 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47. Corn Processing operating profits increased $204 million to $1.1 billion due principally to higher average selling prices and lower energy costs, partially offset by lower ethanol sales volumes and higher net corn costs. Net corn costs increased approximately 60% during 2007 due to significant anticipated demand increases for corn resulting primarily from increasing corn derived ethanol industry capacity. Agricultural commodity market concerns regarding the expected decline in the ending 2006 corn crop carryover also contributed to the increase in corn costs. Sweeteners and Starches operating profits increased $51 million primarily due to higher average sales prices and lower energy costs. Sales prices increased due principally to good demand for sweetener and starch products. These increases were partially offset by increased net corn costs. Sweeteners and Starches operating profits for 2006 include a $5 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47. Bioproducts operating profits increased $153 million primarily due to higher ethanol average selling prices and lower energy costs, partially offset by increased net corn costs and lower ethanol sales volumes. Ethanol average sales prices increased due principally to strong demand from gasoline refiners and higher gasoline prices. Ethanol sales volumes decreased as 2006 sales volumes exceeded production due to the release of inventories built up in anticipation of refiners replacing MTBE with ethanol. Bioproducts operating results for 2007 include a $1 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Bioproducts operating results for 2006 include a $6 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets, a $2 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47, and $6 million of costs related to the closure of a citric acid plant. Agricultural Services operating profits increased $301 million to $538 million due principally to a $153 million gain from the sale of the Companys interest in Agricore United, a Canadian business which specialized in crop input, crop protection services, and grain marketing and merchandising. Excluding the Agricore United gain, Agricultural Services operating profits increased $148 million to $385 million due principally to improved global grain merchandising operating results and, to a lesser extent, improved transportation and North American origination operating results. Global grain merchandising results improved as regional production imbalances allowed the Company to capitalize on merchandising opportunities. North American river transportation operating results increased primarily due to increased barge freight rates created by strong demand for barge capacity. North American origination operating results improved due to good export demand for agricultural commodities and higher ocean freight rates. Agricultural Services operating profits for 2007 include a $12 million trade disruption insurance recovery related to Hurricane Katrina. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Other operating profits increased $25 million to $379 million. Wheat, Cocoa, and Malt operating profits decreased $19 million. Wheat operating profits include a $39 million gain on the sale of the Companys Arkady food ingredient business in 2007 and a $17 million gain from the sale of long lived assets in 2006. Excluding the effect of these one time gains, Wheat, Cocoa, and Malt operating profits declined $41 million primarily due to cocoa operating results declining from prior year levels and to a lesser extent, weaker equity earnings from our investment in Gruma S.A. partially offset by improved operating results of the Companys wheat flour processing operations. Cocoa processing operating results declined primarily due to increased industry production capacity which caused downward pressure on cocoa processing margins. Financial operating profits increased $44 million due principally to increased valuations of the Companys private equity fund investments and higher operating results of the Companys futures commission merchant business, partially offset by lower operating results of the Companys captive insurance operations. The results of the Companys captive insurance operations for 2007 include a $12 million charge related to a Hurricane Katrina trade disruption insurance settlement. Corporate expense decreased $199 million to $7 million due principally to a $345 million increase in realized securities gains principally resulting from sales of the Companys equity securities of Tyson Foods, Inc. and Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc. and a $103 million reduction in unallocated interest expense due principally to higher levels of invested funds and higher interest rates. These decreases were partially offset by a $207 million charge, compared to a $12 million credit in the prior year, related to the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations and a $46 million charge related to the repurchase of $400 million of the Companys outstanding debentures. Income taxes increased due principally to higher pretax earnings and the absence of a $36 million income tax credit in 2006 related to the recognition of federal and state income tax credits and adjustments resulting from the reconciliation of filed tax returns to the previously estimated tax provision. The Companys effective tax rate during 2007 was 31.5% and, after excluding the effect of the 2006 $36 million tax credit, was 31.2% for the prior year. The increase in the Companys effective tax rate was primarily due to changes in the geographic mix of pretax earnings. Liquidity and Capital Resources A Company objective is to have sufficient liquidity, balance sheet strength, and financial flexibility to fund the operating and capital requirements of a capital intensive agricultural based commodity business. At June 30, 2008, the Company had $1.3 billion of cash, cash equivalents, and short term marketable securities and a current ratio, defined as current assets divided by current liabilities, of 1.7 to 1. Included in working capital is $7.8 billion of readily marketable commodity inventories. Cash used in operating activities totaled $3.2 billion for the year compared to $303 million cash generated from operations last year. This change was primarily due to an increase in working capital requirements principally related to increased market prices and, to a lesser extent, increased quantities of agricultural commodity inventories, principally readily marketable commodity inventories, and increased receivables. Cash used in investing activities increased $1.5 billion for the year to $1.9 billion primarily due to increased capital expenditures and decreased proceeds from sales of businesses including the sale of the Companys equity interests in Tyson Foods, Inc., Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc. and Agricore United in 2007. Cash generated by financing activities was $5.2 billion compared to cash used in financing activities of $398 million last year. Net long term borrowings increased primarily as a result of the issuance in 2008 of approximately $3.1 billion of additional long term debt, including $500 million of debentures issued in December 2007, $700 million of notes issued in March 2008, and $1.75 billion of debentures in June 2008, compared to $1.15 billion of convertible senior notes issued in February 2007, partially offset by $480 million of reduced debt payments principally related to the Companys retirement of $400 million of debentures in 2007. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Capital resources were strengthened in 2008 as shown by the increase in the Companys net worth from $11.3 billion to $13.5 billion. The Companys ratio of long term debt to total capital (the sum of the Companys long term debt and shareholders equity) was 36% at June 30, 2008, and 30% at June 30, 2007. This ratio is a measure of the Companys long term liquidity and is an indicator of financial flexibility. The Company currently has $7.4 billion of commercial paper and commercial bank lines available to meet seasonal cash requirements of which $5.2 billion are committed and $2.2 billion are uncommitted. At June 30, 2008, the Company had $3.1 billion of short term debt outstanding. Standard & Poors, Moodys, and Fitch rate the Companys commercial paper as A 1, P 1, and F1, respectively, and rate the Companys long term debt as A, A2, and A, respectively. In addition to the cash flow generated from operations, the Company has access to equity and debt capital through numerous alternatives from public and private sources in domestic and international markets. The Company has outstanding $1.15 billion principal amount of convertible senior notes. As of June 30, 2008, none of the conditions permitting conversion of the notes had been satisfied. As of June 30, 2008, the market price of the Companys common stock was not greater than the exercise price of the purchased call options or warrants related to the convertible senior notes. In June 2008, the Company issued $1.75 billion of debentures as a component of Equity Units. The Equity Units are a combination of (a) debt and (b) forward contracts for the holder to purchase the Companys common stock. The purchase contracts obligate the holder to purchase from the Company, no later than June 1, 2011, for a price of $50 in cash, a certain number of shares, ranging from 1.0453 shares to 1.2544 shares, of the Companys common stock, based on a formula established in the contract. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements In the normal course of business, the Company enters into contracts and commitments which obligate the Company to make payments in the future. The following table sets forth the Companys significant future obligations by time period. Purchases include commodity based contracts entered into in the normal course of business, which are further described in Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, energy related purchase contracts entered into in the normal course of business, and other purchase obligations related to the Companys normal business activities. Where applicable, information included in the Companys consolidated financial statements and notes is cross referenced in this table. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Payments Due by Period Contractual Note Less than 1 3 3 5 More than Obligations Reference Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years (In millions) Purchases Inventories $ 24,230 $ 22,813 $ 1,200 $ 174 $ 43 Energy 952 502 302 80 68 Other 148 58 60 18 12 Total purchases 25,330 23,373 1,562 272 123 Short term debt Note 7 3,123 3,123 Long term debt Note 7 7,993 232 358 380 7,023 Estimated interest payments 9,639 511 808 758 7,562 Operating leases Note 12 1,364 403 402 239 320 Estimated pension and other postretirement plan contributions Note 13 1,217 90 204 229 694 Total $ 48,666 $ 27,732 $ 3,334 $ 1,878 $ 15,722 At June 30, 2008, the Company estimates it will spend approximately $2.5 billion over the next five years to complete currently approved capital projects and acquisitions which is not included in the table above. The Company is a limited partner in various private equity funds which invest primarily in emerging markets. At June 30, 2008, the Companys carrying value of these limited partnership investments was $129 million. The Company has future capital commitments related to these partnerships of $137 million and expects the majority of these additional capital commitments, if called for, to be funded by cash flows generated by the partnerships. The Company also has outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds of $500 million at June 30, 2008. In addition, the Company has entered into agreements, primarily debt guarantee agreements related to equity method investees, which could obligate the Company to make future payments. The Companys liability under these agreements arises only if the primary entity fails to perform its contractual obligation. The Company has collateral for a portion of these contingent obligations. At June 30, 2008, these contingent obligations totaled approximately $135 million. Amounts outstanding for the primary entity under these contingent obligations were $62 million at June 30, 2008. Critical Accounting Policies The process of preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the carrying values of the Companys assets and liabilities as well as the recognition of revenues and expenses. These estimates and judgments are based on the Companys historical experience and managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Certain of the Companys accounting policies are considered critical, as these policies are important to the depiction of the Companys financial statements and require significant or complex judgment by management. Management has discussed with the Companys Audit Committee the development, selection, disclosure, and application of these critical accounting policies. Following are the accounting policies management considers critical to the Companys financial statements. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Inventories and Derivatives Certain of the Companys merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, forward fixed price purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts are valued at estimated market values. These merchandisable agricultural commodities are freely traded, have quoted market prices, and may be sold without significant additional processing. Management estimates market value based on exchange quoted prices, adjusted for differences in local markets. Changes in the market values of these inventories and contracts are recognized in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. If management used different methods or factors to estimate market value, amounts reported as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. Additionally, if market conditions change subsequent to year end, amounts reported in future periods as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. The Company, from time to time, uses derivative contracts designated as cash flow hedges to fix the purchase price of anticipated volumes of commodities to be purchased and processed in a future month, to fix the purchase price of the Companys anticipated natural gas requirements for certain production facilities, and to fix the sales price of anticipated volumes of ethanol. The change in the market value of such derivative contracts has historically been, and is expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. If it is determined that the derivative instruments used are no longer effective at offsetting changes in the price of the hedged item, then the changes in the market value of these exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts would be recorded in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. Employee Benefit Plans The Company provides substantially all domestic employees and employees at certain international subsidiaries with pension benefits. The Company also provides substantially all domestic salaried employees with postretirement health care and life insurance benefits. In order to measure the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans, management makes several estimates and assumptions, including interest rates used to discount certain liabilities, rates of return on assets set aside to fund these plans, rates of compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and anticipated future health care costs. These estimates and assumptions are based on the Companys historical experience combined with managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Management also uses third party actuaries to assist in measuring the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans. If management used different estimates and assumptions regarding these plans, the funded status of the plans could vary significantly, and the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Income Taxes The Company frequently faces challenges from domestic and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company records reserves for estimates of potential additional tax owed by the Company. Deferred tax assets represent items to be used as tax deductions or credits in future tax returns, and the related tax benefit has already been recognized in the Companys income statement. Realization of certain deferred tax assets reflects the Companys tax planning strategies. Valuation allowances related to these deferred tax assets have been established to the extent the realization of the tax benefit is not probable. Based on managements evaluation of the Companys tax position, it is believed the amounts related to these tax exposures are appropriately accrued. To the extent the Company were to favorably resolve matters for which accruals have been established or be required to pay amounts in excess of the aforementioned reserves, the Companys effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be impacted. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and affiliated corporate joint ventures accounted for on the equity method are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by unpredictable factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned unpredictable factors, therefore, may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and profitability of the Companys asset base in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its factories. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment, technology, and companies related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. The Company evaluates goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives for impairment annually. Assets are written down after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these assets, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Valuation of Marketable Securities and Investments in Affiliates The Company classifies the majority of its marketable securities as available for sale and carries these securities at fair value. Investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings and are adjusted, where appropriate, for amortizable basis differences between the investment balance and the underlying net assets of the investee. For publicly traded securities, the fair value of the Companys investments is readily available based on quoted market prices. For non publicly traded securities, managements assessment of fair value is based on valuation methodologies including discounted cash flows and estimates of sales proceeds. In the event of a decline in fair value of an investment below carrying value, management may be required to determine if the decline in fair value is other than temporary. In evaluating the nature of a decline in the fair value of an investment, management considers the market conditions, trends of earnings, discounted cash flows, trading volumes, and other key measures of the investment as well as the Companys ability and intent to hold the investment. When such a decline in value is deemed to be other than temporary, an impairment loss is recognized in the current period operating results to the extent of the decline. See Notes 3 and 5 to the Companys consolidated financial statements for information regarding the Companys marketable securities and investments in affiliates. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these marketable securities, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in: commodity market prices as they relate to the Companys net commodity position, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and price of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to unpredictable factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. To reduce price risk caused by market fluctuations, the Company generally follows a policy of using exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts to minimize its net position of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories and forward cash purchase and sales contracts. The Company will also use exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the volatility of the relationship between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contracts defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company from time to time enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. A sensitivity analysis has been prepared to estimate the Companys exposure to market risk of its daily net commodity position. The Companys daily net commodity position consists of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, related purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts, including those contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements. The fair value of such daily net commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing each net position at quoted futures prices. Market risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in such prices. Actual results may differ. 2008 2007 Long/(Short) Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest position $ 1,260 $ 126 $ 703 $ 70 Lowest position (915 ) (92 ) (565 ) (57 ) Average position 251 25 180 18 The change in fair value of the average position for 2008 compared to 2007 was principally a result of increases in commodity prices and, to a lesser extent, quantities underlying the daily net commodity position. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) Currencies In order to reduce the risk of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, except for amounts permanently invested as described below, the Company follows a policy of entering into currency exchange forward contracts to mitigate its foreign currency risk related to transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currencies applicable to each of its various entities. The instruments used are forward contracts, swaps with banks, and exchange traded futures contracts. The changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $7.0 billion at June 30, 2008, and $5.4 billion at June 30, 2007. This increase is due to an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and appreciation of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar. The potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $695 million and $543 million for 2008 and 2007, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical .5% decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2008 2007 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 7,789 $ 4,862 Excess of fair value over carrying value 99 110 Market risk 308 232 The increase in fair value of long term debt in 2008 resulted principally from the Companys issuance of approximately $3.1 billion in long term debt in 2008. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Selling, general, and administrative expenses of $1.2 billion were comparable to 2006 and included $25 million of currency exchange rate increases. Excluding the impact of currency exchange rate increases, selling, general and administrative expenses decreased $23 million due principally to 2006 selling, general and administrative expenses including $20 million of severance costs associated with the closure of a citric acid plant. During 2007 and 2006, the Company issued option grants and restricted stock awards to officers and key employees pursuant to the Companys Long term Management Incentive Program. Certain officers and key employees of the Company receiving option grants and restricted stock awards were eligible for retirement. Compensation expense related to option grants and restricted stock awards issued to these retirement eligible employees is recognized in earnings on the date of grant. Selling, general, and administrative expense for 2007 and 2006 includes compensation expense related to option grants and restricted stock awards granted to retirement eligible employees of $30 million and $31 million, respectively. Other income net increased $1.0 billion primarily due to the $440 million Wilmar Gain, a $357 million gain on the sale of the Companys equity securities of Tyson Foods, Inc. and Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc., a $153 million gain on the sale of the Companys interest in Agricore United, and a $53 million gain on the sale of the Companys Arkady food ingredient business. Other income net also includes a $46 million charge related to the repurchase of $400 million of the Companys outstanding debentures in 2007. Excluding these items, other income net increased $73 million primarily due to a $120 million increase in equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates, and a $53 million increase in investment income, partially offset by a $69 million increase in interest expense and a $27 million reduction in gains on sales of long lived assets. The increase in equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates was primarily due to higher valuations of the Companys private equity fund investments and improved operating results of the Companys Asian oilseed ventures. Interest expense and investment income increased primarily due to increased average borrowing and investment levels. Operating profit by segment is as follows: 2007 2006 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing & Origination $ 414 $ 376 $ 38 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel & Other 202 140 62 Asia 523 53 470 Total Oilseeds Processing 1,139 569 570 Corn Processing Sweeteners & Starches 509 458 51 Bioproducts 596 443 153 Total Corn Processing 1,105 901 204 Agricultural Services Merchandising & Handling 382 94 288 Transportation 156 143 13 Total Agricultural Services 538 237 301 Other Wheat, Cocoa, & Malt 209 228 (19 ) Financial 170 126 44 Total Other 379 354 25 Total Segment Operating Profit 3,161 2,061 1,100 Corporate (7 ) (206 ) 199 Earnings Before Income Taxes $ 3,154 $ 1,855 $ 1,299 Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Oilseeds Processing operating profits increased $570 million to $1.1 billion due principally to the $440 million Wilmar Gain and improved market conditions in all geographic regions. North American processing results improved due principally to abundant oilseed supplies in the United States and good demand for vegetable oil and soybean meal. Vegetable oil values improved as the markets anticipated new demand from the developing United States biodiesel industry. North American processing results were also favorably impacted by lower plant operating costs resulting from improved capacity utilization. Asian joint venture results improved due to improved palm processing operating results partially offset by decreased soy crushing operating results. European processing results improved due principally to abundant oilseed supplies in Europe and strong demand for vegetable oil. The strong demand for vegetable oil is the result of strong biodiesel demand. These increases were partially offset by decreased biodiesel operating profits resulting from higher vegetable oil prices, increased market production capacity, and lower diesel fuel prices. South American processing results declined due principally to the $27 million credit for Brazilian transactional taxes in 2006. Excluding the impact of the credit for Brazilian transactional taxes, South American processing results improved due principally to increased fertilizer margins. The improvement in fertilizer margins was primarily due to higher average sales prices due to improved fertilizer demand combined with stable raw material costs. Operating profits for 2007 include a $6 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Operating profits for 2006 include a $14 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets and a $6 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47. Corn Processing operating profits increased $204 million to $1.1 billion due principally to higher average selling prices and lower energy costs, partially offset by lower ethanol sales volumes and higher net corn costs. Net corn costs increased approximately 60% during 2007 due to significant anticipated demand increases for corn resulting primarily from increasing corn derived ethanol industry capacity. Agricultural commodity market concerns regarding the expected decline in the ending 2006 corn crop carryover also contributed to the increase in corn costs. Sweeteners and Starches operating profits increased $51 million primarily due to higher average sales prices and lower energy costs. Sales prices increased due principally to good demand for sweetener and starch products. These increases were partially offset by increased net corn costs. Sweeteners and Starches operating profits for 2006 include a $5 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47. Bioproducts operating profits increased $153 million primarily due to higher ethanol average selling prices and lower energy costs, partially offset by increased net corn costs and lower ethanol sales volumes. Ethanol average sales prices increased due principally to strong demand from gasoline refiners and higher gasoline prices. Ethanol sales volumes decreased as 2006 sales volumes exceeded production due to the release of inventories built up in anticipation of refiners replacing MTBE with ethanol. Bioproducts operating results for 2007 include a $1 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Bioproducts operating results for 2006 include a $6 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets, a $2 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47, and $6 million of costs related to the closure of a citric acid plant. Agricultural Services operating profits increased $301 million to $538 million due principally to a $153 million gain from the sale of the Companys interest in Agricore United, a Canadian business which specialized in crop input, crop protection services, and grain marketing and merchandising. Excluding the Agricore United gain, Agricultural Services operating profits increased $148 million to $385 million due principally to improved global grain merchandising operating results and, to a lesser extent, improved transportation and North American origination operating results. Global grain merchandising results improved as regional production imbalances allowed the Company to capitalize on merchandising opportunities. North American river transportation operating results increased primarily due to increased barge freight rates created by strong demand for barge capacity. North American origination operating results improved due to good export demand for agricultural commodities and higher ocean freight rates. Agricultural Services operating profits for 2007 include a $12 million trade disruption insurance recovery related to Hurricane Katrina. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Other operating profits increased $25 million to $379 million. Wheat, Cocoa, and Malt operating profits decreased $19 million. Wheat operating profits include a $39 million gain on the sale of the Companys Arkady food ingredient business in 2007 and a $17 million gain from the sale of long lived assets in 2006. Excluding the effect of these one time gains, Wheat, Cocoa, and Malt operating profits declined $41 million primarily due to cocoa operating results declining from prior year levels and to a lesser extent, weaker equity earnings from our investment in Gruma S.A. partially offset by improved operating results of the Companys wheat flour processing operations. Cocoa processing operating results declined primarily due to increased industry production capacity which caused downward pressure on cocoa processing margins. Financial operating profits increased $44 million due principally to increased valuations of the Companys private equity fund investments and higher operating results of the Companys futures commission merchant business, partially offset by lower operating results of the Companys captive insurance operations. The results of the Companys captive insurance operations for 2007 include a $12 million charge related to a Hurricane Katrina trade disruption insurance settlement. Corporate expense decreased $199 million to $7 million due principally to a $345 million increase in realized securities gains principally resulting from sales of the Companys equity securities of Tyson Foods, Inc. and Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc. and a $103 million reduction in unallocated interest expense due principally to higher levels of invested funds and higher interest rates. These decreases were partially offset by a $207 million charge, compared to a $12 million credit in the prior year, related to the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations and a $46 million charge related to the repurchase of $400 million of the Companys outstanding debentures. Income taxes increased due principally to higher pretax earnings and the absence of a $36 million income tax credit in 2006 related to the recognition of federal and state income tax credits and adjustments resulting from the reconciliation of filed tax returns to the previously estimated tax provision. The Companys effective tax rate during 2007 was 31.5% and, after excluding the effect of the 2006 $36 million tax credit, was 31.2% for the prior year. The increase in the Companys effective tax rate was primarily due to changes in the geographic mix of pretax earnings. Liquidity and Capital Resources A Company objective is to have sufficient liquidity, balance sheet strength, and financial flexibility to fund the operating and capital requirements of a capital intensive agricultural based commodity business. At June 30, 2008, the Company had $1.3 billion of cash, cash equivalents, and short term marketable securities and a current ratio, defined as current assets divided by current liabilities, of 1.7 to 1. Included in working capital is $7.8 billion of readily marketable commodity inventories. Cash used in operating activities totaled $3.2 billion for the year compared to $303 million cash generated from operations last year. This change was primarily due to an increase in working capital requirements principally related to increased market prices and, to a lesser extent, increased quantities of agricultural commodity inventories, principally readily marketable commodity inventories, and increased receivables. Cash used in investing activities increased $1.5 billion for the year to $1.9 billion primarily due to increased capital expenditures and decreased proceeds from sales of businesses including the sale of the Companys equity interests in Tyson Foods, Inc., Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc. and Agricore United in 2007. Cash generated by financing activities was $5.2 billion compared to cash used in financing activities of $398 million last year. Net long term borrowings increased primarily as a result of the issuance in 2008 of approximately $3.1 billion of additional long term debt, including $500 million of debentures issued in December 2007, $700 million of notes issued in March 2008, and $1.75 billion of debentures in June 2008, compared to $1.15 billion of convertible senior notes issued in February 2007, partially offset by $480 million of reduced debt payments principally related to the Companys retirement of $400 million of debentures in 2007. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Capital resources were strengthened in 2008 as shown by the increase in the Companys net worth from $11.3 billion to $13.5 billion. The Companys ratio of long term debt to total capital (the sum of the Companys long term debt and shareholders equity) was 36% at June 30, 2008, and 30% at June 30, 2007. This ratio is a measure of the Companys long term liquidity and is an indicator of financial flexibility. The Company currently has $7.4 billion of commercial paper and commercial bank lines available to meet seasonal cash requirements of which $5.2 billion are committed and $2.2 billion are uncommitted. At June 30, 2008, the Company had $3.1 billion of short term debt outstanding. Standard & Poors, Moodys, and Fitch rate the Companys commercial paper as A 1, P 1, and F1, respectively, and rate the Companys long term debt as A, A2, and A, respectively. In addition to the cash flow generated from operations, the Company has access to equity and debt capital through numerous alternatives from public and private sources in domestic and international markets. The Company has outstanding $1.15 billion principal amount of convertible senior notes. As of June 30, 2008, none of the conditions permitting conversion of the notes had been satisfied. As of June 30, 2008, the market price of the Companys common stock was not greater than the exercise price of the purchased call options or warrants related to the convertible senior notes. In June 2008, the Company issued $1.75 billion of debentures as a component of Equity Units. The Equity Units are a combination of (a) debt and (b) forward contracts for the holder to purchase the Companys common stock. The purchase contracts obligate the holder to purchase from the Company, no later than June 1, 2011, for a price of $50 in cash, a certain number of shares, ranging from 1.0453 shares to 1.2544 shares, of the Companys common stock, based on a formula established in the contract. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements In the normal course of business, the Company enters into contracts and commitments which obligate the Company to make payments in the future. The following table sets forth the Companys significant future obligations by time period. Purchases include commodity based contracts entered into in the normal course of business, which are further described in Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, energy related purchase contracts entered into in the normal course of business, and other purchase obligations related to the Companys normal business activities. Where applicable, information included in the Companys consolidated financial statements and notes is cross referenced in this table. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Payments Due by Period Contractual Note Less than 1 3 3 5 More than Obligations Reference Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years (In millions) Purchases Inventories $ 24,230 $ 22,813 $ 1,200 $ 174 $ 43 Energy 952 502 302 80 68 Other 148 58 60 18 12 Total purchases 25,330 23,373 1,562 272 123 Short term debt Note 7 3,123 3,123 Long term debt Note 7 7,993 232 358 380 7,023 Estimated interest payments 9,639 511 808 758 7,562 Operating leases Note 12 1,364 403 402 239 320 Estimated pension and other postretirement plan contributions Note 13 1,217 90 204 229 694 Total $ 48,666 $ 27,732 $ 3,334 $ 1,878 $ 15,722 At June 30, 2008, the Company estimates it will spend approximately $2.5 billion over the next five years to complete currently approved capital projects and acquisitions which is not included in the table above. The Company is a limited partner in various private equity funds which invest primarily in emerging markets. At June 30, 2008, the Companys carrying value of these limited partnership investments was $129 million. The Company has future capital commitments related to these partnerships of $137 million and expects the majority of these additional capital commitments, if called for, to be funded by cash flows generated by the partnerships. The Company also has outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds of $500 million at June 30, 2008. In addition, the Company has entered into agreements, primarily debt guarantee agreements related to equity method investees, which could obligate the Company to make future payments. The Companys liability under these agreements arises only if the primary entity fails to perform its contractual obligation. The Company has collateral for a portion of these contingent obligations. At June 30, 2008, these contingent obligations totaled approximately $135 million. Amounts outstanding for the primary entity under these contingent obligations were $62 million at June 30, 2008. Critical Accounting Policies The process of preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the carrying values of the Companys assets and liabilities as well as the recognition of revenues and expenses. These estimates and judgments are based on the Companys historical experience and managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Certain of the Companys accounting policies are considered critical, as these policies are important to the depiction of the Companys financial statements and require significant or complex judgment by management. Management has discussed with the Companys Audit Committee the development, selection, disclosure, and application of these critical accounting policies. Following are the accounting policies management considers critical to the Companys financial statements. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Inventories and Derivatives Certain of the Companys merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, forward fixed price purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts are valued at estimated market values. These merchandisable agricultural commodities are freely traded, have quoted market prices, and may be sold without significant additional processing. Management estimates market value based on exchange quoted prices, adjusted for differences in local markets. Changes in the market values of these inventories and contracts are recognized in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. If management used different methods or factors to estimate market value, amounts reported as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. Additionally, if market conditions change subsequent to year end, amounts reported in future periods as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. The Company, from time to time, uses derivative contracts designated as cash flow hedges to fix the purchase price of anticipated volumes of commodities to be purchased and processed in a future month, to fix the purchase price of the Companys anticipated natural gas requirements for certain production facilities, and to fix the sales price of anticipated volumes of ethanol. The change in the market value of such derivative contracts has historically been, and is expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. If it is determined that the derivative instruments used are no longer effective at offsetting changes in the price of the hedged item, then the changes in the market value of these exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts would be recorded in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. Employee Benefit Plans The Company provides substantially all domestic employees and employees at certain international subsidiaries with pension benefits. The Company also provides substantially all domestic salaried employees with postretirement health care and life insurance benefits. In order to measure the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans, management makes several estimates and assumptions, including interest rates used to discount certain liabilities, rates of return on assets set aside to fund these plans, rates of compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and anticipated future health care costs. These estimates and assumptions are based on the Companys historical experience combined with managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Management also uses third party actuaries to assist in measuring the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans. If management used different estimates and assumptions regarding these plans, the funded status of the plans could vary significantly, and the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Income Taxes The Company frequently faces challenges from domestic and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company records reserves for estimates of potential additional tax owed by the Company. Deferred tax assets represent items to be used as tax deductions or credits in future tax returns, and the related tax benefit has already been recognized in the Companys income statement. Realization of certain deferred tax assets reflects the Companys tax planning strategies. Valuation allowances related to these deferred tax assets have been established to the extent the realization of the tax benefit is not probable. Based on managements evaluation of the Companys tax position, it is believed the amounts related to these tax exposures are appropriately accrued. To the extent the Company were to favorably resolve matters for which accruals have been established or be required to pay amounts in excess of the aforementioned reserves, the Companys effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be impacted. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and affiliated corporate joint ventures accounted for on the equity method are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by unpredictable factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned unpredictable factors, therefore, may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and profitability of the Companys asset base in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its factories. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment, technology, and companies related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. The Company evaluates goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives for impairment annually. Assets are written down after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these assets, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Valuation of Marketable Securities and Investments in Affiliates The Company classifies the majority of its marketable securities as available for sale and carries these securities at fair value. Investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings and are adjusted, where appropriate, for amortizable basis differences between the investment balance and the underlying net assets of the investee. For publicly traded securities, the fair value of the Companys investments is readily available based on quoted market prices. For non publicly traded securities, managements assessment of fair value is based on valuation methodologies including discounted cash flows and estimates of sales proceeds. In the event of a decline in fair value of an investment below carrying value, management may be required to determine if the decline in fair value is other than temporary. In evaluating the nature of a decline in the fair value of an investment, management considers the market conditions, trends of earnings, discounted cash flows, trading volumes, and other key measures of the investment as well as the Companys ability and intent to hold the investment. When such a decline in value is deemed to be other than temporary, an impairment loss is recognized in the current period operating results to the extent of the decline. See Notes 3 and 5 to the Companys consolidated financial statements for information regarding the Companys marketable securities and investments in affiliates. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these marketable securities, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in: commodity market prices as they relate to the Companys net commodity position, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and price of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to unpredictable factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. To reduce price risk caused by market fluctuations, the Company generally follows a policy of using exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts to minimize its net position of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories and forward cash purchase and sales contracts. The Company will also use exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the volatility of the relationship between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contracts defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company from time to time enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. A sensitivity analysis has been prepared to estimate the Companys exposure to market risk of its daily net commodity position. The Companys daily net commodity position consists of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, related purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts, including those contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements. The fair value of such daily net commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing each net position at quoted futures prices. Market risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in such prices. Actual results may differ. 2008 2007 Long/(Short) Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest position $ 1,260 $ 126 $ 703 $ 70 Lowest position (915 ) (92 ) (565 ) (57 ) Average position 251 25 180 18 The change in fair value of the average position for 2008 compared to 2007 was principally a result of increases in commodity prices and, to a lesser extent, quantities underlying the daily net commodity position. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) Currencies In order to reduce the risk of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, except for amounts permanently invested as described below, the Company follows a policy of entering into currency exchange forward contracts to mitigate its foreign currency risk related to transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currencies applicable to each of its various entities. The instruments used are forward contracts, swaps with banks, and exchange traded futures contracts. The changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $7.0 billion at June 30, 2008, and $5.4 billion at June 30, 2007. This increase is due to an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and appreciation of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar. The potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $695 million and $543 million for 2008 and 2007, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical .5% decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2008 2007 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 7,789 $ 4,862 Excess of fair value over carrying value 99 110 Market risk 308 232 The increase in fair value of long term debt in 2008 resulted principally from the Companys issuance of approximately $3.1 billion in long term debt in 2008. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Oilseeds Processing operating profits increased $570 million to $1.1 billion due principally to the $440 million Wilmar Gain and improved market conditions in all geographic regions. North American processing results improved due principally to abundant oilseed supplies in the United States and good demand for vegetable oil and soybean meal. Vegetable oil values improved as the markets anticipated new demand from the developing United States biodiesel industry. North American processing results were also favorably impacted by lower plant operating costs resulting from improved capacity utilization. Asian joint venture results improved due to improved palm processing operating results partially offset by decreased soy crushing operating results. European processing results improved due principally to abundant oilseed supplies in Europe and strong demand for vegetable oil. The strong demand for vegetable oil is the result of strong biodiesel demand. These increases were partially offset by decreased biodiesel operating profits resulting from higher vegetable oil prices, increased market production capacity, and lower diesel fuel prices. South American processing results declined due principally to the $27 million credit for Brazilian transactional taxes in 2006. Excluding the impact of the credit for Brazilian transactional taxes, South American processing results improved due principally to increased fertilizer margins. The improvement in fertilizer margins was primarily due to higher average sales prices due to improved fertilizer demand combined with stable raw material costs. Operating profits for 2007 include a $6 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Operating profits for 2006 include a $14 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets and a $6 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47. Corn Processing operating profits increased $204 million to $1.1 billion due principally to higher average selling prices and lower energy costs, partially offset by lower ethanol sales volumes and higher net corn costs. Net corn costs increased approximately 60% during 2007 due to significant anticipated demand increases for corn resulting primarily from increasing corn derived ethanol industry capacity. Agricultural commodity market concerns regarding the expected decline in the ending 2006 corn crop carryover also contributed to the increase in corn costs. Sweeteners and Starches operating profits increased $51 million primarily due to higher average sales prices and lower energy costs. Sales prices increased due principally to good demand for sweetener and starch products. These increases were partially offset by increased net corn costs. Sweeteners and Starches operating profits for 2006 include a $5 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47. Bioproducts operating profits increased $153 million primarily due to higher ethanol average selling prices and lower energy costs, partially offset by increased net corn costs and lower ethanol sales volumes. Ethanol average sales prices increased due principally to strong demand from gasoline refiners and higher gasoline prices. Ethanol sales volumes decreased as 2006 sales volumes exceeded production due to the release of inventories built up in anticipation of refiners replacing MTBE with ethanol. Bioproducts operating results for 2007 include a $1 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Bioproducts operating results for 2006 include a $6 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets, a $2 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47, and $6 million of costs related to the closure of a citric acid plant. Agricultural Services operating profits increased $301 million to $538 million due principally to a $153 million gain from the sale of the Companys interest in Agricore United, a Canadian business which specialized in crop input, crop protection services, and grain marketing and merchandising. Excluding the Agricore United gain, Agricultural Services operating profits increased $148 million to $385 million due principally to improved global grain merchandising operating results and, to a lesser extent, improved transportation and North American origination operating results. Global grain merchandising results improved as regional production imbalances allowed the Company to capitalize on merchandising opportunities. North American river transportation operating results increased primarily due to increased barge freight rates created by strong demand for barge capacity. North American origination operating results improved due to good export demand for agricultural commodities and higher ocean freight rates. Agricultural Services operating profits for 2007 include a $12 million trade disruption insurance recovery related to Hurricane Katrina. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Other operating profits increased $25 million to $379 million. Wheat, Cocoa, and Malt operating profits decreased $19 million. Wheat operating profits include a $39 million gain on the sale of the Companys Arkady food ingredient business in 2007 and a $17 million gain from the sale of long lived assets in 2006. Excluding the effect of these one time gains, Wheat, Cocoa, and Malt operating profits declined $41 million primarily due to cocoa operating results declining from prior year levels and to a lesser extent, weaker equity earnings from our investment in Gruma S.A. partially offset by improved operating results of the Companys wheat flour processing operations. Cocoa processing operating results declined primarily due to increased industry production capacity which caused downward pressure on cocoa processing margins. Financial operating profits increased $44 million due principally to increased valuations of the Companys private equity fund investments and higher operating results of the Companys futures commission merchant business, partially offset by lower operating results of the Companys captive insurance operations. The results of the Companys captive insurance operations for 2007 include a $12 million charge related to a Hurricane Katrina trade disruption insurance settlement. Corporate expense decreased $199 million to $7 million due principally to a $345 million increase in realized securities gains principally resulting from sales of the Companys equity securities of Tyson Foods, Inc. and Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc. and a $103 million reduction in unallocated interest expense due principally to higher levels of invested funds and higher interest rates. These decreases were partially offset by a $207 million charge, compared to a $12 million credit in the prior year, related to the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations and a $46 million charge related to the repurchase of $400 million of the Companys outstanding debentures. Income taxes increased due principally to higher pretax earnings and the absence of a $36 million income tax credit in 2006 related to the recognition of federal and state income tax credits and adjustments resulting from the reconciliation of filed tax returns to the previously estimated tax provision. The Companys effective tax rate during 2007 was 31.5% and, after excluding the effect of the 2006 $36 million tax credit, was 31.2% for the prior year. The increase in the Companys effective tax rate was primarily due to changes in the geographic mix of pretax earnings. Liquidity and Capital Resources A Company objective is to have sufficient liquidity, balance sheet strength, and financial flexibility to fund the operating and capital requirements of a capital intensive agricultural based commodity business. At June 30, 2008, the Company had $1.3 billion of cash, cash equivalents, and short term marketable securities and a current ratio, defined as current assets divided by current liabilities, of 1.7 to 1. Included in working capital is $7.8 billion of readily marketable commodity inventories. Cash used in operating activities totaled $3.2 billion for the year compared to $303 million cash generated from operations last year. This change was primarily due to an increase in working capital requirements principally related to increased market prices and, to a lesser extent, increased quantities of agricultural commodity inventories, principally readily marketable commodity inventories, and increased receivables. Cash used in investing activities increased $1.5 billion for the year to $1.9 billion primarily due to increased capital expenditures and decreased proceeds from sales of businesses including the sale of the Companys equity interests in Tyson Foods, Inc., Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc. and Agricore United in 2007. Cash generated by financing activities was $5.2 billion compared to cash used in financing activities of $398 million last year. Net long term borrowings increased primarily as a result of the issuance in 2008 of approximately $3.1 billion of additional long term debt, including $500 million of debentures issued in December 2007, $700 million of notes issued in March 2008, and $1.75 billion of debentures in June 2008, compared to $1.15 billion of convertible senior notes issued in February 2007, partially offset by $480 million of reduced debt payments principally related to the Companys retirement of $400 million of debentures in 2007. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Capital resources were strengthened in 2008 as shown by the increase in the Companys net worth from $11.3 billion to $13.5 billion. The Companys ratio of long term debt to total capital (the sum of the Companys long term debt and shareholders equity) was 36% at June 30, 2008, and 30% at June 30, 2007. This ratio is a measure of the Companys long term liquidity and is an indicator of financial flexibility. The Company currently has $7.4 billion of commercial paper and commercial bank lines available to meet seasonal cash requirements of which $5.2 billion are committed and $2.2 billion are uncommitted. At June 30, 2008, the Company had $3.1 billion of short term debt outstanding. Standard & Poors, Moodys, and Fitch rate the Companys commercial paper as A 1, P 1, and F1, respectively, and rate the Companys long term debt as A, A2, and A, respectively. In addition to the cash flow generated from operations, the Company has access to equity and debt capital through numerous alternatives from public and private sources in domestic and international markets. The Company has outstanding $1.15 billion principal amount of convertible senior notes. As of June 30, 2008, none of the conditions permitting conversion of the notes had been satisfied. As of June 30, 2008, the market price of the Companys common stock was not greater than the exercise price of the purchased call options or warrants related to the convertible senior notes. In June 2008, the Company issued $1.75 billion of debentures as a component of Equity Units. The Equity Units are a combination of (a) debt and (b) forward contracts for the holder to purchase the Companys common stock. The purchase contracts obligate the holder to purchase from the Company, no later than June 1, 2011, for a price of $50 in cash, a certain number of shares, ranging from 1.0453 shares to 1.2544 shares, of the Companys common stock, based on a formula established in the contract. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements In the normal course of business, the Company enters into contracts and commitments which obligate the Company to make payments in the future. The following table sets forth the Companys significant future obligations by time period. Purchases include commodity based contracts entered into in the normal course of business, which are further described in Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, energy related purchase contracts entered into in the normal course of business, and other purchase obligations related to the Companys normal business activities. Where applicable, information included in the Companys consolidated financial statements and notes is cross referenced in this table. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Payments Due by Period Contractual Note Less than 1 3 3 5 More than Obligations Reference Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years (In millions) Purchases Inventories $ 24,230 $ 22,813 $ 1,200 $ 174 $ 43 Energy 952 502 302 80 68 Other 148 58 60 18 12 Total purchases 25,330 23,373 1,562 272 123 Short term debt Note 7 3,123 3,123 Long term debt Note 7 7,993 232 358 380 7,023 Estimated interest payments 9,639 511 808 758 7,562 Operating leases Note 12 1,364 403 402 239 320 Estimated pension and other postretirement plan contributions Note 13 1,217 90 204 229 694 Total $ 48,666 $ 27,732 $ 3,334 $ 1,878 $ 15,722 At June 30, 2008, the Company estimates it will spend approximately $2.5 billion over the next five years to complete currently approved capital projects and acquisitions which is not included in the table above. The Company is a limited partner in various private equity funds which invest primarily in emerging markets. At June 30, 2008, the Companys carrying value of these limited partnership investments was $129 million. The Company has future capital commitments related to these partnerships of $137 million and expects the majority of these additional capital commitments, if called for, to be funded by cash flows generated by the partnerships. The Company also has outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds of $500 million at June 30, 2008. In addition, the Company has entered into agreements, primarily debt guarantee agreements related to equity method investees, which could obligate the Company to make future payments. The Companys liability under these agreements arises only if the primary entity fails to perform its contractual obligation. The Company has collateral for a portion of these contingent obligations. At June 30, 2008, these contingent obligations totaled approximately $135 million. Amounts outstanding for the primary entity under these contingent obligations were $62 million at June 30, 2008. Critical Accounting Policies The process of preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the carrying values of the Companys assets and liabilities as well as the recognition of revenues and expenses. These estimates and judgments are based on the Companys historical experience and managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Certain of the Companys accounting policies are considered critical, as these policies are important to the depiction of the Companys financial statements and require significant or complex judgment by management. Management has discussed with the Companys Audit Committee the development, selection, disclosure, and application of these critical accounting policies. Following are the accounting policies management considers critical to the Companys financial statements. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Inventories and Derivatives Certain of the Companys merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, forward fixed price purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts are valued at estimated market values. These merchandisable agricultural commodities are freely traded, have quoted market prices, and may be sold without significant additional processing. Management estimates market value based on exchange quoted prices, adjusted for differences in local markets. Changes in the market values of these inventories and contracts are recognized in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. If management used different methods or factors to estimate market value, amounts reported as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. Additionally, if market conditions change subsequent to year end, amounts reported in future periods as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. The Company, from time to time, uses derivative contracts designated as cash flow hedges to fix the purchase price of anticipated volumes of commodities to be purchased and processed in a future month, to fix the purchase price of the Companys anticipated natural gas requirements for certain production facilities, and to fix the sales price of anticipated volumes of ethanol. The change in the market value of such derivative contracts has historically been, and is expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. If it is determined that the derivative instruments used are no longer effective at offsetting changes in the price of the hedged item, then the changes in the market value of these exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts would be recorded in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. Employee Benefit Plans The Company provides substantially all domestic employees and employees at certain international subsidiaries with pension benefits. The Company also provides substantially all domestic salaried employees with postretirement health care and life insurance benefits. In order to measure the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans, management makes several estimates and assumptions, including interest rates used to discount certain liabilities, rates of return on assets set aside to fund these plans, rates of compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and anticipated future health care costs. These estimates and assumptions are based on the Companys historical experience combined with managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Management also uses third party actuaries to assist in measuring the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans. If management used different estimates and assumptions regarding these plans, the funded status of the plans could vary significantly, and the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Income Taxes The Company frequently faces challenges from domestic and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company records reserves for estimates of potential additional tax owed by the Company. Deferred tax assets represent items to be used as tax deductions or credits in future tax returns, and the related tax benefit has already been recognized in the Companys income statement. Realization of certain deferred tax assets reflects the Companys tax planning strategies. Valuation allowances related to these deferred tax assets have been established to the extent the realization of the tax benefit is not probable. Based on managements evaluation of the Companys tax position, it is believed the amounts related to these tax exposures are appropriately accrued. To the extent the Company were to favorably resolve matters for which accruals have been established or be required to pay amounts in excess of the aforementioned reserves, the Companys effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be impacted. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and affiliated corporate joint ventures accounted for on the equity method are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by unpredictable factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned unpredictable factors, therefore, may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and profitability of the Companys asset base in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its factories. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment, technology, and companies related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. The Company evaluates goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives for impairment annually. Assets are written down after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these assets, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Valuation of Marketable Securities and Investments in Affiliates The Company classifies the majority of its marketable securities as available for sale and carries these securities at fair value. Investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings and are adjusted, where appropriate, for amortizable basis differences between the investment balance and the underlying net assets of the investee. For publicly traded securities, the fair value of the Companys investments is readily available based on quoted market prices. For non publicly traded securities, managements assessment of fair value is based on valuation methodologies including discounted cash flows and estimates of sales proceeds. In the event of a decline in fair value of an investment below carrying value, management may be required to determine if the decline in fair value is other than temporary. In evaluating the nature of a decline in the fair value of an investment, management considers the market conditions, trends of earnings, discounted cash flows, trading volumes, and other key measures of the investment as well as the Companys ability and intent to hold the investment. When such a decline in value is deemed to be other than temporary, an impairment loss is recognized in the current period operating results to the extent of the decline. See Notes 3 and 5 to the Companys consolidated financial statements for information regarding the Companys marketable securities and investments in affiliates. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these marketable securities, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in: commodity market prices as they relate to the Companys net commodity position, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and price of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to unpredictable factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. To reduce price risk caused by market fluctuations, the Company generally follows a policy of using exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts to minimize its net position of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories and forward cash purchase and sales contracts. The Company will also use exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the volatility of the relationship between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contracts defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company from time to time enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. A sensitivity analysis has been prepared to estimate the Companys exposure to market risk of its daily net commodity position. The Companys daily net commodity position consists of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, related purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts, including those contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements. The fair value of such daily net commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing each net position at quoted futures prices. Market risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in such prices. Actual results may differ. 2008 2007 Long/(Short) Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest position $ 1,260 $ 126 $ 703 $ 70 Lowest position (915 ) (92 ) (565 ) (57 ) Average position 251 25 180 18 The change in fair value of the average position for 2008 compared to 2007 was principally a result of increases in commodity prices and, to a lesser extent, quantities underlying the daily net commodity position. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) Currencies In order to reduce the risk of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, except for amounts permanently invested as described below, the Company follows a policy of entering into currency exchange forward contracts to mitigate its foreign currency risk related to transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currencies applicable to each of its various entities. The instruments used are forward contracts, swaps with banks, and exchange traded futures contracts. The changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $7.0 billion at June 30, 2008, and $5.4 billion at June 30, 2007. This increase is due to an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and appreciation of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar. The potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $695 million and $543 million for 2008 and 2007, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical .5% decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2008 2007 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 7,789 $ 4,862 Excess of fair value over carrying value 99 110 Market risk 308 232 The increase in fair value of long term debt in 2008 resulted principally from the Companys issuance of approximately $3.1 billion in long term debt in 2008. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Other operating profits increased $25 million to $379 million. Wheat, Cocoa, and Malt operating profits decreased $19 million. Wheat operating profits include a $39 million gain on the sale of the Companys Arkady food ingredient business in 2007 and a $17 million gain from the sale of long lived assets in 2006. Excluding the effect of these one time gains, Wheat, Cocoa, and Malt operating profits declined $41 million primarily due to cocoa operating results declining from prior year levels and to a lesser extent, weaker equity earnings from our investment in Gruma S.A. partially offset by improved operating results of the Companys wheat flour processing operations. Cocoa processing operating results declined primarily due to increased industry production capacity which caused downward pressure on cocoa processing margins. Financial operating profits increased $44 million due principally to increased valuations of the Companys private equity fund investments and higher operating results of the Companys futures commission merchant business, partially offset by lower operating results of the Companys captive insurance operations. The results of the Companys captive insurance operations for 2007 include a $12 million charge related to a Hurricane Katrina trade disruption insurance settlement. Corporate expense decreased $199 million to $7 million due principally to a $345 million increase in realized securities gains principally resulting from sales of the Companys equity securities of Tyson Foods, Inc. and Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc. and a $103 million reduction in unallocated interest expense due principally to higher levels of invested funds and higher interest rates. These decreases were partially offset by a $207 million charge, compared to a $12 million credit in the prior year, related to the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations and a $46 million charge related to the repurchase of $400 million of the Companys outstanding debentures. Income taxes increased due principally to higher pretax earnings and the absence of a $36 million income tax credit in 2006 related to the recognition of federal and state income tax credits and adjustments resulting from the reconciliation of filed tax returns to the previously estimated tax provision. The Companys effective tax rate during 2007 was 31.5% and, after excluding the effect of the 2006 $36 million tax credit, was 31.2% for the prior year. The increase in the Companys effective tax rate was primarily due to changes in the geographic mix of pretax earnings. Liquidity and Capital Resources A Company objective is to have sufficient liquidity, balance sheet strength, and financial flexibility to fund the operating and capital requirements of a capital intensive agricultural based commodity business. At June 30, 2008, the Company had $1.3 billion of cash, cash equivalents, and short term marketable securities and a current ratio, defined as current assets divided by current liabilities, of 1.7 to 1. Included in working capital is $7.8 billion of readily marketable commodity inventories. Cash used in operating activities totaled $3.2 billion for the year compared to $303 million cash generated from operations last year. This change was primarily due to an increase in working capital requirements principally related to increased market prices and, to a lesser extent, increased quantities of agricultural commodity inventories, principally readily marketable commodity inventories, and increased receivables. Cash used in investing activities increased $1.5 billion for the year to $1.9 billion primarily due to increased capital expenditures and decreased proceeds from sales of businesses including the sale of the Companys equity interests in Tyson Foods, Inc., Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc. and Agricore United in 2007. Cash generated by financing activities was $5.2 billion compared to cash used in financing activities of $398 million last year. Net long term borrowings increased primarily as a result of the issuance in 2008 of approximately $3.1 billion of additional long term debt, including $500 million of debentures issued in December 2007, $700 million of notes issued in March 2008, and $1.75 billion of debentures in June 2008, compared to $1.15 billion of convertible senior notes issued in February 2007, partially offset by $480 million of reduced debt payments principally related to the Companys retirement of $400 million of debentures in 2007. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Capital resources were strengthened in 2008 as shown by the increase in the Companys net worth from $11.3 billion to $13.5 billion. The Companys ratio of long term debt to total capital (the sum of the Companys long term debt and shareholders equity) was 36% at June 30, 2008, and 30% at June 30, 2007. This ratio is a measure of the Companys long term liquidity and is an indicator of financial flexibility. The Company currently has $7.4 billion of commercial paper and commercial bank lines available to meet seasonal cash requirements of which $5.2 billion are committed and $2.2 billion are uncommitted. At June 30, 2008, the Company had $3.1 billion of short term debt outstanding. Standard & Poors, Moodys, and Fitch rate the Companys commercial paper as A 1, P 1, and F1, respectively, and rate the Companys long term debt as A, A2, and A, respectively. In addition to the cash flow generated from operations, the Company has access to equity and debt capital through numerous alternatives from public and private sources in domestic and international markets. The Company has outstanding $1.15 billion principal amount of convertible senior notes. As of June 30, 2008, none of the conditions permitting conversion of the notes had been satisfied. As of June 30, 2008, the market price of the Companys common stock was not greater than the exercise price of the purchased call options or warrants related to the convertible senior notes. In June 2008, the Company issued $1.75 billion of debentures as a component of Equity Units. The Equity Units are a combination of (a) debt and (b) forward contracts for the holder to purchase the Companys common stock. The purchase contracts obligate the holder to purchase from the Company, no later than June 1, 2011, for a price of $50 in cash, a certain number of shares, ranging from 1.0453 shares to 1.2544 shares, of the Companys common stock, based on a formula established in the contract. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements In the normal course of business, the Company enters into contracts and commitments which obligate the Company to make payments in the future. The following table sets forth the Companys significant future obligations by time period. Purchases include commodity based contracts entered into in the normal course of business, which are further described in Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, energy related purchase contracts entered into in the normal course of business, and other purchase obligations related to the Companys normal business activities. Where applicable, information included in the Companys consolidated financial statements and notes is cross referenced in this table. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Payments Due by Period Contractual Note Less than 1 3 3 5 More than Obligations Reference Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years (In millions) Purchases Inventories $ 24,230 $ 22,813 $ 1,200 $ 174 $ 43 Energy 952 502 302 80 68 Other 148 58 60 18 12 Total purchases 25,330 23,373 1,562 272 123 Short term debt Note 7 3,123 3,123 Long term debt Note 7 7,993 232 358 380 7,023 Estimated interest payments 9,639 511 808 758 7,562 Operating leases Note 12 1,364 403 402 239 320 Estimated pension and other postretirement plan contributions Note 13 1,217 90 204 229 694 Total $ 48,666 $ 27,732 $ 3,334 $ 1,878 $ 15,722 At June 30, 2008, the Company estimates it will spend approximately $2.5 billion over the next five years to complete currently approved capital projects and acquisitions which is not included in the table above. The Company is a limited partner in various private equity funds which invest primarily in emerging markets. At June 30, 2008, the Companys carrying value of these limited partnership investments was $129 million. The Company has future capital commitments related to these partnerships of $137 million and expects the majority of these additional capital commitments, if called for, to be funded by cash flows generated by the partnerships. The Company also has outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds of $500 million at June 30, 2008. In addition, the Company has entered into agreements, primarily debt guarantee agreements related to equity method investees, which could obligate the Company to make future payments. The Companys liability under these agreements arises only if the primary entity fails to perform its contractual obligation. The Company has collateral for a portion of these contingent obligations. At June 30, 2008, these contingent obligations totaled approximately $135 million. Amounts outstanding for the primary entity under these contingent obligations were $62 million at June 30, 2008. Critical Accounting Policies The process of preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the carrying values of the Companys assets and liabilities as well as the recognition of revenues and expenses. These estimates and judgments are based on the Companys historical experience and managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Certain of the Companys accounting policies are considered critical, as these policies are important to the depiction of the Companys financial statements and require significant or complex judgment by management. Management has discussed with the Companys Audit Committee the development, selection, disclosure, and application of these critical accounting policies. Following are the accounting policies management considers critical to the Companys financial statements. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Inventories and Derivatives Certain of the Companys merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, forward fixed price purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts are valued at estimated market values. These merchandisable agricultural commodities are freely traded, have quoted market prices, and may be sold without significant additional processing. Management estimates market value based on exchange quoted prices, adjusted for differences in local markets. Changes in the market values of these inventories and contracts are recognized in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. If management used different methods or factors to estimate market value, amounts reported as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. Additionally, if market conditions change subsequent to year end, amounts reported in future periods as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. The Company, from time to time, uses derivative contracts designated as cash flow hedges to fix the purchase price of anticipated volumes of commodities to be purchased and processed in a future month, to fix the purchase price of the Companys anticipated natural gas requirements for certain production facilities, and to fix the sales price of anticipated volumes of ethanol. The change in the market value of such derivative contracts has historically been, and is expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. If it is determined that the derivative instruments used are no longer effective at offsetting changes in the price of the hedged item, then the changes in the market value of these exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts would be recorded in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. Employee Benefit Plans The Company provides substantially all domestic employees and employees at certain international subsidiaries with pension benefits. The Company also provides substantially all domestic salaried employees with postretirement health care and life insurance benefits. In order to measure the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans, management makes several estimates and assumptions, including interest rates used to discount certain liabilities, rates of return on assets set aside to fund these plans, rates of compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and anticipated future health care costs. These estimates and assumptions are based on the Companys historical experience combined with managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Management also uses third party actuaries to assist in measuring the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans. If management used different estimates and assumptions regarding these plans, the funded status of the plans could vary significantly, and the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Income Taxes The Company frequently faces challenges from domestic and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company records reserves for estimates of potential additional tax owed by the Company. Deferred tax assets represent items to be used as tax deductions or credits in future tax returns, and the related tax benefit has already been recognized in the Companys income statement. Realization of certain deferred tax assets reflects the Companys tax planning strategies. Valuation allowances related to these deferred tax assets have been established to the extent the realization of the tax benefit is not probable. Based on managements evaluation of the Companys tax position, it is believed the amounts related to these tax exposures are appropriately accrued. To the extent the Company were to favorably resolve matters for which accruals have been established or be required to pay amounts in excess of the aforementioned reserves, the Companys effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be impacted. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and affiliated corporate joint ventures accounted for on the equity method are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by unpredictable factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned unpredictable factors, therefore, may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and profitability of the Companys asset base in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its factories. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment, technology, and companies related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. The Company evaluates goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives for impairment annually. Assets are written down after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these assets, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Valuation of Marketable Securities and Investments in Affiliates The Company classifies the majority of its marketable securities as available for sale and carries these securities at fair value. Investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings and are adjusted, where appropriate, for amortizable basis differences between the investment balance and the underlying net assets of the investee. For publicly traded securities, the fair value of the Companys investments is readily available based on quoted market prices. For non publicly traded securities, managements assessment of fair value is based on valuation methodologies including discounted cash flows and estimates of sales proceeds. In the event of a decline in fair value of an investment below carrying value, management may be required to determine if the decline in fair value is other than temporary. In evaluating the nature of a decline in the fair value of an investment, management considers the market conditions, trends of earnings, discounted cash flows, trading volumes, and other key measures of the investment as well as the Companys ability and intent to hold the investment. When such a decline in value is deemed to be other than temporary, an impairment loss is recognized in the current period operating results to the extent of the decline. See Notes 3 and 5 to the Companys consolidated financial statements for information regarding the Companys marketable securities and investments in affiliates. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these marketable securities, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in: commodity market prices as they relate to the Companys net commodity position, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and price of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to unpredictable factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. To reduce price risk caused by market fluctuations, the Company generally follows a policy of using exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts to minimize its net position of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories and forward cash purchase and sales contracts. The Company will also use exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the volatility of the relationship between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contracts defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company from time to time enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. A sensitivity analysis has been prepared to estimate the Companys exposure to market risk of its daily net commodity position. The Companys daily net commodity position consists of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, related purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts, including those contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements. The fair value of such daily net commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing each net position at quoted futures prices. Market risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in such prices. Actual results may differ. 2008 2007 Long/(Short) Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest position $ 1,260 $ 126 $ 703 $ 70 Lowest position (915 ) (92 ) (565 ) (57 ) Average position 251 25 180 18 The change in fair value of the average position for 2008 compared to 2007 was principally a result of increases in commodity prices and, to a lesser extent, quantities underlying the daily net commodity position. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) Currencies In order to reduce the risk of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, except for amounts permanently invested as described below, the Company follows a policy of entering into currency exchange forward contracts to mitigate its foreign currency risk related to transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currencies applicable to each of its various entities. The instruments used are forward contracts, swaps with banks, and exchange traded futures contracts. The changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $7.0 billion at June 30, 2008, and $5.4 billion at June 30, 2007. This increase is due to an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and appreciation of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar. The potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $695 million and $543 million for 2008 and 2007, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical .5% decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2008 2007 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 7,789 $ 4,862 Excess of fair value over carrying value 99 110 Market risk 308 232 The increase in fair value of long term debt in 2008 resulted principally from the Companys issuance of approximately $3.1 billion in long term debt in 2008. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Capital resources were strengthened in 2008 as shown by the increase in the Companys net worth from $11.3 billion to $13.5 billion. The Companys ratio of long term debt to total capital (the sum of the Companys long term debt and shareholders equity) was 36% at June 30, 2008, and 30% at June 30, 2007. This ratio is a measure of the Companys long term liquidity and is an indicator of financial flexibility. The Company currently has $7.4 billion of commercial paper and commercial bank lines available to meet seasonal cash requirements of which $5.2 billion are committed and $2.2 billion are uncommitted. At June 30, 2008, the Company had $3.1 billion of short term debt outstanding. Standard & Poors, Moodys, and Fitch rate the Companys commercial paper as A 1, P 1, and F1, respectively, and rate the Companys long term debt as A, A2, and A, respectively. In addition to the cash flow generated from operations, the Company has access to equity and debt capital through numerous alternatives from public and private sources in domestic and international markets. The Company has outstanding $1.15 billion principal amount of convertible senior notes. As of June 30, 2008, none of the conditions permitting conversion of the notes had been satisfied. As of June 30, 2008, the market price of the Companys common stock was not greater than the exercise price of the purchased call options or warrants related to the convertible senior notes. In June 2008, the Company issued $1.75 billion of debentures as a component of Equity Units. The Equity Units are a combination of (a) debt and (b) forward contracts for the holder to purchase the Companys common stock. The purchase contracts obligate the holder to purchase from the Company, no later than June 1, 2011, for a price of $50 in cash, a certain number of shares, ranging from 1.0453 shares to 1.2544 shares, of the Companys common stock, based on a formula established in the contract. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements In the normal course of business, the Company enters into contracts and commitments which obligate the Company to make payments in the future. The following table sets forth the Companys significant future obligations by time period. Purchases include commodity based contracts entered into in the normal course of business, which are further described in Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, energy related purchase contracts entered into in the normal course of business, and other purchase obligations related to the Companys normal business activities. Where applicable, information included in the Companys consolidated financial statements and notes is cross referenced in this table. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Payments Due by Period Contractual Note Less than 1 3 3 5 More than Obligations Reference Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years (In millions) Purchases Inventories $ 24,230 $ 22,813 $ 1,200 $ 174 $ 43 Energy 952 502 302 80 68 Other 148 58 60 18 12 Total purchases 25,330 23,373 1,562 272 123 Short term debt Note 7 3,123 3,123 Long term debt Note 7 7,993 232 358 380 7,023 Estimated interest payments 9,639 511 808 758 7,562 Operating leases Note 12 1,364 403 402 239 320 Estimated pension and other postretirement plan contributions Note 13 1,217 90 204 229 694 Total $ 48,666 $ 27,732 $ 3,334 $ 1,878 $ 15,722 At June 30, 2008, the Company estimates it will spend approximately $2.5 billion over the next five years to complete currently approved capital projects and acquisitions which is not included in the table above. The Company is a limited partner in various private equity funds which invest primarily in emerging markets. At June 30, 2008, the Companys carrying value of these limited partnership investments was $129 million. The Company has future capital commitments related to these partnerships of $137 million and expects the majority of these additional capital commitments, if called for, to be funded by cash flows generated by the partnerships. The Company also has outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds of $500 million at June 30, 2008. In addition, the Company has entered into agreements, primarily debt guarantee agreements related to equity method investees, which could obligate the Company to make future payments. The Companys liability under these agreements arises only if the primary entity fails to perform its contractual obligation. The Company has collateral for a portion of these contingent obligations. At June 30, 2008, these contingent obligations totaled approximately $135 million. Amounts outstanding for the primary entity under these contingent obligations were $62 million at June 30, 2008. Critical Accounting Policies The process of preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the carrying values of the Companys assets and liabilities as well as the recognition of revenues and expenses. These estimates and judgments are based on the Companys historical experience and managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Certain of the Companys accounting policies are considered critical, as these policies are important to the depiction of the Companys financial statements and require significant or complex judgment by management. Management has discussed with the Companys Audit Committee the development, selection, disclosure, and application of these critical accounting policies. Following are the accounting policies management considers critical to the Companys financial statements. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Inventories and Derivatives Certain of the Companys merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, forward fixed price purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts are valued at estimated market values. These merchandisable agricultural commodities are freely traded, have quoted market prices, and may be sold without significant additional processing. Management estimates market value based on exchange quoted prices, adjusted for differences in local markets. Changes in the market values of these inventories and contracts are recognized in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. If management used different methods or factors to estimate market value, amounts reported as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. Additionally, if market conditions change subsequent to year end, amounts reported in future periods as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. The Company, from time to time, uses derivative contracts designated as cash flow hedges to fix the purchase price of anticipated volumes of commodities to be purchased and processed in a future month, to fix the purchase price of the Companys anticipated natural gas requirements for certain production facilities, and to fix the sales price of anticipated volumes of ethanol. The change in the market value of such derivative contracts has historically been, and is expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. If it is determined that the derivative instruments used are no longer effective at offsetting changes in the price of the hedged item, then the changes in the market value of these exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts would be recorded in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. Employee Benefit Plans The Company provides substantially all domestic employees and employees at certain international subsidiaries with pension benefits. The Company also provides substantially all domestic salaried employees with postretirement health care and life insurance benefits. In order to measure the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans, management makes several estimates and assumptions, including interest rates used to discount certain liabilities, rates of return on assets set aside to fund these plans, rates of compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and anticipated future health care costs. These estimates and assumptions are based on the Companys historical experience combined with managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Management also uses third party actuaries to assist in measuring the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans. If management used different estimates and assumptions regarding these plans, the funded status of the plans could vary significantly, and the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Income Taxes The Company frequently faces challenges from domestic and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company records reserves for estimates of potential additional tax owed by the Company. Deferred tax assets represent items to be used as tax deductions or credits in future tax returns, and the related tax benefit has already been recognized in the Companys income statement. Realization of certain deferred tax assets reflects the Companys tax planning strategies. Valuation allowances related to these deferred tax assets have been established to the extent the realization of the tax benefit is not probable. Based on managements evaluation of the Companys tax position, it is believed the amounts related to these tax exposures are appropriately accrued. To the extent the Company were to favorably resolve matters for which accruals have been established or be required to pay amounts in excess of the aforementioned reserves, the Companys effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be impacted. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and affiliated corporate joint ventures accounted for on the equity method are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by unpredictable factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned unpredictable factors, therefore, may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and profitability of the Companys asset base in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its factories. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment, technology, and companies related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. The Company evaluates goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives for impairment annually. Assets are written down after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these assets, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Valuation of Marketable Securities and Investments in Affiliates The Company classifies the majority of its marketable securities as available for sale and carries these securities at fair value. Investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings and are adjusted, where appropriate, for amortizable basis differences between the investment balance and the underlying net assets of the investee. For publicly traded securities, the fair value of the Companys investments is readily available based on quoted market prices. For non publicly traded securities, managements assessment of fair value is based on valuation methodologies including discounted cash flows and estimates of sales proceeds. In the event of a decline in fair value of an investment below carrying value, management may be required to determine if the decline in fair value is other than temporary. In evaluating the nature of a decline in the fair value of an investment, management considers the market conditions, trends of earnings, discounted cash flows, trading volumes, and other key measures of the investment as well as the Companys ability and intent to hold the investment. When such a decline in value is deemed to be other than temporary, an impairment loss is recognized in the current period operating results to the extent of the decline. See Notes 3 and 5 to the Companys consolidated financial statements for information regarding the Companys marketable securities and investments in affiliates. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these marketable securities, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in: commodity market prices as they relate to the Companys net commodity position, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and price of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to unpredictable factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. To reduce price risk caused by market fluctuations, the Company generally follows a policy of using exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts to minimize its net position of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories and forward cash purchase and sales contracts. The Company will also use exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the volatility of the relationship between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contracts defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company from time to time enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. A sensitivity analysis has been prepared to estimate the Companys exposure to market risk of its daily net commodity position. The Companys daily net commodity position consists of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, related purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts, including those contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements. The fair value of such daily net commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing each net position at quoted futures prices. Market risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in such prices. Actual results may differ. 2008 2007 Long/(Short) Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest position $ 1,260 $ 126 $ 703 $ 70 Lowest position (915 ) (92 ) (565 ) (57 ) Average position 251 25 180 18 The change in fair value of the average position for 2008 compared to 2007 was principally a result of increases in commodity prices and, to a lesser extent, quantities underlying the daily net commodity position. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) Currencies In order to reduce the risk of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, except for amounts permanently invested as described below, the Company follows a policy of entering into currency exchange forward contracts to mitigate its foreign currency risk related to transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currencies applicable to each of its various entities. The instruments used are forward contracts, swaps with banks, and exchange traded futures contracts. The changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $7.0 billion at June 30, 2008, and $5.4 billion at June 30, 2007. This increase is due to an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and appreciation of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar. The potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $695 million and $543 million for 2008 and 2007, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical .5% decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2008 2007 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 7,789 $ 4,862 Excess of fair value over carrying value 99 110 Market risk 308 232 The increase in fair value of long term debt in 2008 resulted principally from the Companys issuance of approximately $3.1 billion in long term debt in 2008. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Payments Due by Period Contractual Note Less than 1 3 3 5 More than Obligations Reference Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years (In millions) Purchases Inventories $ 24,230 $ 22,813 $ 1,200 $ 174 $ 43 Energy 952 502 302 80 68 Other 148 58 60 18 12 Total purchases 25,330 23,373 1,562 272 123 Short term debt Note 7 3,123 3,123 Long term debt Note 7 7,993 232 358 380 7,023 Estimated interest payments 9,639 511 808 758 7,562 Operating leases Note 12 1,364 403 402 239 320 Estimated pension and other postretirement plan contributions Note 13 1,217 90 204 229 694 Total $ 48,666 $ 27,732 $ 3,334 $ 1,878 $ 15,722 At June 30, 2008, the Company estimates it will spend approximately $2.5 billion over the next five years to complete currently approved capital projects and acquisitions which is not included in the table above. The Company is a limited partner in various private equity funds which invest primarily in emerging markets. At June 30, 2008, the Companys carrying value of these limited partnership investments was $129 million. The Company has future capital commitments related to these partnerships of $137 million and expects the majority of these additional capital commitments, if called for, to be funded by cash flows generated by the partnerships. The Company also has outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds of $500 million at June 30, 2008. In addition, the Company has entered into agreements, primarily debt guarantee agreements related to equity method investees, which could obligate the Company to make future payments. The Companys liability under these agreements arises only if the primary entity fails to perform its contractual obligation. The Company has collateral for a portion of these contingent obligations. At June 30, 2008, these contingent obligations totaled approximately $135 million. Amounts outstanding for the primary entity under these contingent obligations were $62 million at June 30, 2008. Critical Accounting Policies The process of preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the carrying values of the Companys assets and liabilities as well as the recognition of revenues and expenses. These estimates and judgments are based on the Companys historical experience and managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Certain of the Companys accounting policies are considered critical, as these policies are important to the depiction of the Companys financial statements and require significant or complex judgment by management. Management has discussed with the Companys Audit Committee the development, selection, disclosure, and application of these critical accounting policies. Following are the accounting policies management considers critical to the Companys financial statements. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Inventories and Derivatives Certain of the Companys merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, forward fixed price purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts are valued at estimated market values. These merchandisable agricultural commodities are freely traded, have quoted market prices, and may be sold without significant additional processing. Management estimates market value based on exchange quoted prices, adjusted for differences in local markets. Changes in the market values of these inventories and contracts are recognized in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. If management used different methods or factors to estimate market value, amounts reported as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. Additionally, if market conditions change subsequent to year end, amounts reported in future periods as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. The Company, from time to time, uses derivative contracts designated as cash flow hedges to fix the purchase price of anticipated volumes of commodities to be purchased and processed in a future month, to fix the purchase price of the Companys anticipated natural gas requirements for certain production facilities, and to fix the sales price of anticipated volumes of ethanol. The change in the market value of such derivative contracts has historically been, and is expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. If it is determined that the derivative instruments used are no longer effective at offsetting changes in the price of the hedged item, then the changes in the market value of these exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts would be recorded in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. Employee Benefit Plans The Company provides substantially all domestic employees and employees at certain international subsidiaries with pension benefits. The Company also provides substantially all domestic salaried employees with postretirement health care and life insurance benefits. In order to measure the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans, management makes several estimates and assumptions, including interest rates used to discount certain liabilities, rates of return on assets set aside to fund these plans, rates of compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and anticipated future health care costs. These estimates and assumptions are based on the Companys historical experience combined with managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Management also uses third party actuaries to assist in measuring the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans. If management used different estimates and assumptions regarding these plans, the funded status of the plans could vary significantly, and the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Income Taxes The Company frequently faces challenges from domestic and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company records reserves for estimates of potential additional tax owed by the Company. Deferred tax assets represent items to be used as tax deductions or credits in future tax returns, and the related tax benefit has already been recognized in the Companys income statement. Realization of certain deferred tax assets reflects the Companys tax planning strategies. Valuation allowances related to these deferred tax assets have been established to the extent the realization of the tax benefit is not probable. Based on managements evaluation of the Companys tax position, it is believed the amounts related to these tax exposures are appropriately accrued. To the extent the Company were to favorably resolve matters for which accruals have been established or be required to pay amounts in excess of the aforementioned reserves, the Companys effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be impacted. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and affiliated corporate joint ventures accounted for on the equity method are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by unpredictable factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned unpredictable factors, therefore, may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and profitability of the Companys asset base in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its factories. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment, technology, and companies related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. The Company evaluates goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives for impairment annually. Assets are written down after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these assets, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Valuation of Marketable Securities and Investments in Affiliates The Company classifies the majority of its marketable securities as available for sale and carries these securities at fair value. Investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings and are adjusted, where appropriate, for amortizable basis differences between the investment balance and the underlying net assets of the investee. For publicly traded securities, the fair value of the Companys investments is readily available based on quoted market prices. For non publicly traded securities, managements assessment of fair value is based on valuation methodologies including discounted cash flows and estimates of sales proceeds. In the event of a decline in fair value of an investment below carrying value, management may be required to determine if the decline in fair value is other than temporary. In evaluating the nature of a decline in the fair value of an investment, management considers the market conditions, trends of earnings, discounted cash flows, trading volumes, and other key measures of the investment as well as the Companys ability and intent to hold the investment. When such a decline in value is deemed to be other than temporary, an impairment loss is recognized in the current period operating results to the extent of the decline. See Notes 3 and 5 to the Companys consolidated financial statements for information regarding the Companys marketable securities and investments in affiliates. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these marketable securities, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in: commodity market prices as they relate to the Companys net commodity position, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and price of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to unpredictable factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. To reduce price risk caused by market fluctuations, the Company generally follows a policy of using exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts to minimize its net position of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories and forward cash purchase and sales contracts. The Company will also use exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the volatility of the relationship between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contracts defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company from time to time enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. A sensitivity analysis has been prepared to estimate the Companys exposure to market risk of its daily net commodity position. The Companys daily net commodity position consists of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, related purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts, including those contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements. The fair value of such daily net commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing each net position at quoted futures prices. Market risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in such prices. Actual results may differ. 2008 2007 Long/(Short) Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest position $ 1,260 $ 126 $ 703 $ 70 Lowest position (915 ) (92 ) (565 ) (57 ) Average position 251 25 180 18 The change in fair value of the average position for 2008 compared to 2007 was principally a result of increases in commodity prices and, to a lesser extent, quantities underlying the daily net commodity position. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) Currencies In order to reduce the risk of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, except for amounts permanently invested as described below, the Company follows a policy of entering into currency exchange forward contracts to mitigate its foreign currency risk related to transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currencies applicable to each of its various entities. The instruments used are forward contracts, swaps with banks, and exchange traded futures contracts. The changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $7.0 billion at June 30, 2008, and $5.4 billion at June 30, 2007. This increase is due to an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and appreciation of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar. The potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $695 million and $543 million for 2008 and 2007, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical .5% decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2008 2007 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 7,789 $ 4,862 Excess of fair value over carrying value 99 110 Market risk 308 232 The increase in fair value of long term debt in 2008 resulted principally from the Companys issuance of approximately $3.1 billion in long term debt in 2008. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Inventories and Derivatives Certain of the Companys merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, forward fixed price purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts are valued at estimated market values. These merchandisable agricultural commodities are freely traded, have quoted market prices, and may be sold without significant additional processing. Management estimates market value based on exchange quoted prices, adjusted for differences in local markets. Changes in the market values of these inventories and contracts are recognized in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. If management used different methods or factors to estimate market value, amounts reported as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. Additionally, if market conditions change subsequent to year end, amounts reported in future periods as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. The Company, from time to time, uses derivative contracts designated as cash flow hedges to fix the purchase price of anticipated volumes of commodities to be purchased and processed in a future month, to fix the purchase price of the Companys anticipated natural gas requirements for certain production facilities, and to fix the sales price of anticipated volumes of ethanol. The change in the market value of such derivative contracts has historically been, and is expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. If it is determined that the derivative instruments used are no longer effective at offsetting changes in the price of the hedged item, then the changes in the market value of these exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts would be recorded in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. Employee Benefit Plans The Company provides substantially all domestic employees and employees at certain international subsidiaries with pension benefits. The Company also provides substantially all domestic salaried employees with postretirement health care and life insurance benefits. In order to measure the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans, management makes several estimates and assumptions, including interest rates used to discount certain liabilities, rates of return on assets set aside to fund these plans, rates of compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and anticipated future health care costs. These estimates and assumptions are based on the Companys historical experience combined with managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Management also uses third party actuaries to assist in measuring the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans. If management used different estimates and assumptions regarding these plans, the funded status of the plans could vary significantly, and the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Income Taxes The Company frequently faces challenges from domestic and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company records reserves for estimates of potential additional tax owed by the Company. Deferred tax assets represent items to be used as tax deductions or credits in future tax returns, and the related tax benefit has already been recognized in the Companys income statement. Realization of certain deferred tax assets reflects the Companys tax planning strategies. Valuation allowances related to these deferred tax assets have been established to the extent the realization of the tax benefit is not probable. Based on managements evaluation of the Companys tax position, it is believed the amounts related to these tax exposures are appropriately accrued. To the extent the Company were to favorably resolve matters for which accruals have been established or be required to pay amounts in excess of the aforementioned reserves, the Companys effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be impacted. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and affiliated corporate joint ventures accounted for on the equity method are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by unpredictable factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned unpredictable factors, therefore, may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and profitability of the Companys asset base in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its factories. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment, technology, and companies related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. The Company evaluates goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives for impairment annually. Assets are written down after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these assets, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Valuation of Marketable Securities and Investments in Affiliates The Company classifies the majority of its marketable securities as available for sale and carries these securities at fair value. Investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings and are adjusted, where appropriate, for amortizable basis differences between the investment balance and the underlying net assets of the investee. For publicly traded securities, the fair value of the Companys investments is readily available based on quoted market prices. For non publicly traded securities, managements assessment of fair value is based on valuation methodologies including discounted cash flows and estimates of sales proceeds. In the event of a decline in fair value of an investment below carrying value, management may be required to determine if the decline in fair value is other than temporary. In evaluating the nature of a decline in the fair value of an investment, management considers the market conditions, trends of earnings, discounted cash flows, trading volumes, and other key measures of the investment as well as the Companys ability and intent to hold the investment. When such a decline in value is deemed to be other than temporary, an impairment loss is recognized in the current period operating results to the extent of the decline. See Notes 3 and 5 to the Companys consolidated financial statements for information regarding the Companys marketable securities and investments in affiliates. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these marketable securities, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in: commodity market prices as they relate to the Companys net commodity position, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and price of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to unpredictable factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. To reduce price risk caused by market fluctuations, the Company generally follows a policy of using exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts to minimize its net position of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories and forward cash purchase and sales contracts. The Company will also use exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the volatility of the relationship between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contracts defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company from time to time enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. A sensitivity analysis has been prepared to estimate the Companys exposure to market risk of its daily net commodity position. The Companys daily net commodity position consists of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, related purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts, including those contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements. The fair value of such daily net commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing each net position at quoted futures prices. Market risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in such prices. Actual results may differ. 2008 2007 Long/(Short) Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest position $ 1,260 $ 126 $ 703 $ 70 Lowest position (915 ) (92 ) (565 ) (57 ) Average position 251 25 180 18 The change in fair value of the average position for 2008 compared to 2007 was principally a result of increases in commodity prices and, to a lesser extent, quantities underlying the daily net commodity position. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) Currencies In order to reduce the risk of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, except for amounts permanently invested as described below, the Company follows a policy of entering into currency exchange forward contracts to mitigate its foreign currency risk related to transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currencies applicable to each of its various entities. The instruments used are forward contracts, swaps with banks, and exchange traded futures contracts. The changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $7.0 billion at June 30, 2008, and $5.4 billion at June 30, 2007. This increase is due to an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and appreciation of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar. The potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $695 million and $543 million for 2008 and 2007, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical .5% decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2008 2007 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 7,789 $ 4,862 Excess of fair value over carrying value 99 110 Market risk 308 232 The increase in fair value of long term debt in 2008 resulted principally from the Companys issuance of approximately $3.1 billion in long term debt in 2008. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and affiliated corporate joint ventures accounted for on the equity method are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by unpredictable factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned unpredictable factors, therefore, may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and profitability of the Companys asset base in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its factories. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment, technology, and companies related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. The Company evaluates goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives for impairment annually. Assets are written down after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these assets, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Valuation of Marketable Securities and Investments in Affiliates The Company classifies the majority of its marketable securities as available for sale and carries these securities at fair value. Investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings and are adjusted, where appropriate, for amortizable basis differences between the investment balance and the underlying net assets of the investee. For publicly traded securities, the fair value of the Companys investments is readily available based on quoted market prices. For non publicly traded securities, managements assessment of fair value is based on valuation methodologies including discounted cash flows and estimates of sales proceeds. In the event of a decline in fair value of an investment below carrying value, management may be required to determine if the decline in fair value is other than temporary. In evaluating the nature of a decline in the fair value of an investment, management considers the market conditions, trends of earnings, discounted cash flows, trading volumes, and other key measures of the investment as well as the Companys ability and intent to hold the investment. When such a decline in value is deemed to be other than temporary, an impairment loss is recognized in the current period operating results to the extent of the decline. See Notes 3 and 5 to the Companys consolidated financial statements for information regarding the Companys marketable securities and investments in affiliates. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these marketable securities, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in: commodity market prices as they relate to the Companys net commodity position, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and price of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to unpredictable factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. To reduce price risk caused by market fluctuations, the Company generally follows a policy of using exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts to minimize its net position of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories and forward cash purchase and sales contracts. The Company will also use exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the volatility of the relationship between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contracts defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company from time to time enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. A sensitivity analysis has been prepared to estimate the Companys exposure to market risk of its daily net commodity position. The Companys daily net commodity position consists of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, related purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts, including those contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements. The fair value of such daily net commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing each net position at quoted futures prices. Market risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in such prices. Actual results may differ. 2008 2007 Long/(Short) Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest position $ 1,260 $ 126 $ 703 $ 70 Lowest position (915 ) (92 ) (565 ) (57 ) Average position 251 25 180 18 The change in fair value of the average position for 2008 compared to 2007 was principally a result of increases in commodity prices and, to a lesser extent, quantities underlying the daily net commodity position. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) Currencies In order to reduce the risk of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, except for amounts permanently invested as described below, the Company follows a policy of entering into currency exchange forward contracts to mitigate its foreign currency risk related to transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currencies applicable to each of its various entities. The instruments used are forward contracts, swaps with banks, and exchange traded futures contracts. The changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $7.0 billion at June 30, 2008, and $5.4 billion at June 30, 2007. This increase is due to an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and appreciation of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar. The potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $695 million and $543 million for 2008 and 2007, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical .5% decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2008 2007 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 7,789 $ 4,862 Excess of fair value over carrying value 99 110 Market risk 308 232 The increase in fair value of long term debt in 2008 resulted principally from the Companys issuance of approximately $3.1 billion in long term debt in 2008. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Company Overview The Company is principally engaged in procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. Beginning in fiscal 2008, the Company has reclassified certain operations within its reportable segments to reflect how the Company now manages its businesses following a realignment of the organizational structure of the Company and to reflect the activities of the Company as viewed by the Companys chief operating decision maker. Prior period segment information has been reclassified to conform to the new presentation. The Companys operations are classified into three reportable business segments: Oilseeds Processing, Corn Processing and Agricultural Services. Each of these segments is organized based upon the nature of products and services offered. The Companys remaining operations are aggregated and classified as Other. The Oilseeds Processing segment includes activities related to the origination and crushing of oilseeds such as soybeans, cottonseed, sunflower seeds, canola, peanuts, and flaxseed into vegetable oils and protein meals principally for the food and feed industries. In addition, oilseeds and oilseed products may be processed internally or resold into the marketplace as raw materials for other processing. Crude vegetable oil is sold "as is" or is further processed by refining, bleaching, and deodorizing into salad oils. Salad oils can be further processed by hydrogenating and or interesterifying into margarine, shortening, and other food products. Partially refined oil is sold for use in chemicals, paints, and other industrial products. Refined oil can be further processed for use in the production of biodiesel. Oilseed protein meals are primary ingredients used in the manufacture of commercial livestock and poultry feeds. Oilseeds Processing includes activities related to the production of natural health and nutrition products and the production of other specialty food and feed ingredients. This segment also includes activities related to the Companys interests in unconsolidated affiliates in Asia, principally Wilmar International Limited. The Corn Processing segment includes activities related to the production of sweeteners, starches, dextrose, and syrups primarily for the food and beverage industry as well as activities related to the production, by fermentation, of bioproducts such as ethanol, amino acids, and other food, feed and industrial products. The Agricultural Services segment utilizes the Companys extensive grain elevator and transportation network to buy, store, clean, and transport agricultural commodities, such as oilseeds, corn, wheat, milo, oats, barley, and edible beans, and resells or processes these commodities primarily as food and feed ingredients for the agricultural processing industry. Agricultural Services grain sourcing and transportation network provides reliable and efficient services to the Companys agricultural processing operations. Also included in Agricultural Services are the activities of A.C. Toepfer International, a global merchant of agricultural commodities and processed products. Other includes the Companys remaining processing operations, consisting of activities related to processing agricultural commodities into food ingredient products such as wheat into wheat flour, cocoa into chocolate and cocoa products, and barley into malt. Other also includes financial activities related to banking, captive insurance, private equity fund investments, and futures commission merchant activities. Operating Performance Indicators The Companys Oilseeds Processing, Agricultural Services, and wheat processing operations are principally agricultural commodity based businesses where changes in selling prices move in relationship to changes in prices of the commodity based agricultural raw materials. Therefore, changes in agricultural commodity prices have relatively equal impacts on both net sales and cost of products sold and minimal impact on the gross profit of underlying transactions. As a result, changes in gross profit of these businesses do not necessarily correspond to the changes in net sales amounts. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) The Companys Corn Processing operations and certain other food and animal feed processing operations also utilize agricultural commodities (or products derived from agricultural commodities) as raw materials. In these operations, agricultural commodity market price changes can result in significant fluctuations in cost of products sold, and such price changes cannot necessarily be passed directly through to the selling price of the finished products. The Company conducts its business in many countries. For the majority of the Companys subsidiaries located outside the United States, the local currency is the functional currency. Revenues and expenses denominated in foreign currencies are translated into U.S. dollars at the weighted average exchange rates for the applicable periods. Fluctuations in the exchange rates of foreign currencies, primarily the Euro, British pound, and Canadian dollar, as compared to the U.S. dollar will result in corresponding fluctuations in the U.S. dollar value of revenues and expenses reported by the Company. The impact of these currency exchange rate changes, where significant, is discussed below. The Company measures the performance of its business segments using key operating statistics such as segment operating profit, return on fixed capital investment, return on equity, return on net assets, and cost per metric ton produced. The Companys operating results can vary significantly due to changes in unpredictable factors such as fluctuations in energy prices, weather conditions, crop plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. Due to these unpredictable factors, the Company does not provide forward looking information in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 2008 Compared to 2007 As an agricultural based commodity business, the Company is subject to a variety of market factors which affect the Companys operating results. Strong demand for agricultural commodities and processed products has challenged the global supply chain and provided exceptional margin opportunities in 2008. Strong global demand for protein meal and vegetable oil and strong fertilizer demand in South America positively impacted Oilseeds Processing results. The market price of corn rose due to increased demand, resulting in higher raw material costs for Corn Processing which were only partially passed on in the form of increased selling prices for sweeteners and starches. Average ethanol selling prices decreased due to additional supply entering the market. Large North American crops combined with global wheat shortages created favorable conditions in agricultural merchandising and handling operations. Increased commodity costs resulted in larger LIFO inventory valuation reserves. Earnings before income taxes decreased due principally to gains totaling $1.0 billion before income tax on business disposals recorded in 2007 including $440 million related to the exchange of the Companys interest in certain Asian joint ventures for shares of Wilmar International Limited (the Wilmar gain), a $357 million realized securities gain from sales of the Companys equity securities of Tyson Foods, Inc. and Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc., a gain of $153 million from the sale of the Companys interest in Agricore United, and a $53 million gain from the sale of the Companys Arkady food ingredient business. Earnings before income taxes for 2008 include a charge of $569 million from the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations, compared to a charge of $207 million in 2007. Earnings before income taxes for 2008 also include a $32 million charge related to abandonment and write down of long lived assets, a $38 million gain on sales of securities, and a $21 million gain on the disposal of long lived assets. Earnings before income taxes for 2007 include charges of $46 million related to the repurchase of $400 million of the Companys outstanding debentures and $21 million related to abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Analysis of Statements of Earnings Net sales and other operating income increased 59% to $69.8 billion. Increased selling prices of agricultural commodities and oilseed processing products and, to a lesser extent, corn processing products and wheat flour accounted for 85% of the increase and higher sales volumes, principally of agricultural commodities, ethanol, and biodiesel, also contributed to the increase in net sales. In addition, net sales and other operating income increased $1.83 billion, or 4%, due to currency rate fluctuations. Net sales and other operating income by segment are as follows: 2008 2007 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing & Origination $ 14,477 $ 8,036 $ 6,441 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel & Other 8,588 5,758 2,830 Asia 214 149 65 Total Oilseeds Processing 23,279 13,943 9,336 Corn Processing Sweeteners & Starches 3,546 2,761 785 Bioproducts 3,591 3,064 527 Total Corn Processing 7,137 5,825 1,312 Agricultural Services Merchandising & Handling 33,749 20,222 13,527 Transportation 219 197 22 Total Agricultural Services 33,968 20,419 13,549 Other Wheat, Cocoa, & Malt 5,335 3,738 1,597 Financial 97 93 4 Total Other 5,432 3,831 1,601 Total $ 69,816 $ 44,018 $ 25,798 Oilseeds Processing sales increased 67% to $23.3 billion due principally to increased average selling prices resulting primarily from increases in underlying commodity costs and from continuing strong demand for vegetable oil, biodiesel and protein meal. Sales volumes of vegetable oil, protein meal and biodiesel also increased. Corn Processing sales increased 23% to $7.1 billion. Good demand for sweeteners and starches resulted in higher average selling prices. Bioproducts sales increased primarily as a result of increased ethanol sales volumes partially offset by lower average ethanol selling prices. Increased ethanol sales volumes reflect higher gasoline prices, improved gasoline blending economics and additional demand, principally from newly opened markets in the southeastern United States. Agricultural Services sales increased 66% to $34.0 billion primarily due to increased underlying commodity costs, and to a lesser extent, increased sales volumes. Sales in the Other segment increased 42% to $5.4 billion primarily due to higher average selling prices of wheat flour and, to a lesser extent, higher sales volumes and higher average selling prices of cocoa products. Cost of products sold increased 62% to $66.0 billion primarily due to higher agricultural commodity costs, and, to a lesser extent, higher sales volumes. Manufacturing expenses increased $549 million primarily due to higher energy and transportation fuel costs, increased employee related costs, higher storage and handling costs, increased production capacity, and the impact of foreign currency translation. In addition, cost of products sold increased $1.75 billion, or 4%, due to currency rate fluctuations. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $224 million to $1.4 billion primarily due to higher employee related costs and higher outside service costs, including $44 million related to an organizational realignment and reorganization of the companys European headquarters, and increased $37 million due to the impact of currency rate fluctuations. Other income net decreased $911 million primarily due to gains totaling $1.0 billion on business disposals recorded in 2007 including $440 million related to the Wilmar gain, $357 million realized securities gain from sales of the Companys equity securities of Tyson Foods, Inc. and Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc., a gain of $153 million from the sale of the Companys interest in Agricore United, and a $53 million gain from the sale of the Companys Arkady food ingredient business. Equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates increased $121 million in 2008, primarily related to improved operating results of the Companys investments in U.S. grain export, Asian oilseeds and peanut processing ventures. Other income net also reflects $38 million in gains on sales of securities in 2008, $21 million in gains on disposals of long lived assets in 2008, an increase from 2007 to 2008 of $11 million in charges related to abandonment and write down of long lived assets, and a charge of $46 million related to the repurchase of $400 million of the Companys outstanding debentures in 2007. Operating profit by segment is as follows: 2008 2007 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing & Origination $ 727 $ 414 $ 313 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel & Other 181 202 (21 ) Asia 132 523 (391 ) Total Oilseeds Processing 1,040 1,139 (99 ) Corn Processing Sweeteners & Starches 529 509 20 Bioproducts 432 596 (164 ) Total Corn Processing 961 1,105 (144 ) Agricultural Services Merchandising & Handling 873 382 491 Transportation 144 156 (12 ) Total Agricultural Services 1,017 538 479 Other Wheat, Cocoa, & Malt 217 209 8 Financial 206 170 36 Total Other 423 379 44 Total Segment Operating Profit 3,441 3,161 280 Corporate (817 ) (7 ) (810 ) Earnings Before Income Taxes $ 2,624 $ 3,154 $ (530 ) Oilseeds Processing operating profit decreased 9% to $1.0 billion. Excluding the $440 million Wilmar gain reflected in Asia results in 2007, Oilseeds Processing operating profit increased 49%, primarily due to strong global demand for protein meal, vegetable oil, and fertilizer. Crushing and Origination operating profits increased 76% to $727 million due principally to improved crushing margins in North and South America and improved fertilizer results in South America. Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel and Other operating profits decreased 10% to $181 million due principally to decreased biodiesel margins in Europe and asset impairment charges of $28 million in 2008, partially offset by improved global refining margins. 2007 operating profit for Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel and Other includes a $14 million gain on a business disposal. Excluding the Wilmar gain, Asia operating profits increased 59% to $132 million, principally reflecting the Companys share of improved operating profits of Wilmar International Limited. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Corn Processing operating profits decreased 13% to $961 million, primarily due to higher net corn costs. Sweeteners and Starches operating profits of $529 were relatively unchanged as higher average selling prices were offset by higher net corn costs and increased manufacturing costs. Manufacturing cost increases reflect higher energy costs, higher repair and maintenance expenses, and higher costs for chemicals used in the manufacturing process. Bioproducts operating profits decreased 28% to $432 million primarily due to higher net corn costs, higher manufacturing expenses, and decreased average ethanol selling prices, partially offset by higher sales volumes for ethanol and, to a lesser extent, higher average lysine selling prices and higher lysine sales volumes. Agricultural Services operating profits increased 89% to $1.0 billion. 2007 operating profits in Merchandising and Handling include a $153 million gain on the sale of the Companys interest in Agricore United. Excluding this gain, Merchandising and Handling operating profits increased 281% to $873 million. This increase was primarily due to enhanced merchandising and handling margins caused by volatile global grain and freight markets, favorable risk management results, and to a lesser extent, increased sales volumes. Transportation operating profits decreased 8% to $144 million primarily due to increased fuel costs. Other operating profits increased 12% to $423 million. Wheat, Cocoa and Malt operating profits increased 4% to $217 million. 2007 operating profits for Wheat included a gain of $39 million from the sale of the Companys Arkady food ingredient business. Excluding the Arkady gain, Wheat, Cocoa and Malt operating profits improved 28%, primarily due to improved wheat and malt margins reflecting increased demand, partially offset by decreased cocoa processing margins reflecting higher raw material and operating costs and competitive pressures experienced in the North American chocolate market. Financial operating profits improved 21% to $206 million primarily due to improvements in the Companys futures commission merchant business. Corporate expense increased $810 million to $817 million, primarily due to a $362 million increase in the charge related to the effects of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations, a $371 million decrease in realized securities gains primarily reflecting the $357 million gain recorded in 2007 from sales of the Companys equity securities of Tyson Foods, Inc. and Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc., a $51 million increase in corporate expenses due principally to reorganization and realignment costs, partially offset by a charge of $46 million recorded in 2007 related to the repurchase of $400 million of the Companys outstanding debentures. Income taxes decreased primarily due to lower pretax earnings. The Companys effective tax rate during 2008 of 31.3% was comparable to the 2007 rate of 31.5%. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) 2007 Compared to 2006 As an agricultural based commodity business, the Company is subject to a variety of market factors which affect the Companys operating results. Strong biodiesel demand in Europe continued to create increased vegetable oil demand and positively impacted rapeseed crushing margins in Europe. Abundant oilseed supplies, improved vegetable oil values, and strong protein meal demand have positively impacted oilseed crushing margins in North America. Increased ethanol contracted selling prices, continuing strong ethanol demand, and solid demand for sweetener and starch products improved corn processing results. These increases in corn processing results were partially offset by higher net corn costs. Global grain merchandising opportunities resulting from regional production imbalances also improved operating results. North American river transportation operations were favorably impacted by strong demand for river transportation services which increased barge freight rates. Increasing commodity price levels resulted in larger LIFO inventory valuation reserves. Net earnings increased due principally to improved operating results in all of the Companys operating segments. Earnings before income taxes for 2007 include a gain of $440 million related to the exchange of the Companys interests in certain Asian joint ventures for shares of Wilmar International Limited (the Wilmar Gain), a $357 million realized securities gain from sales of the Companys equity securities of Tyson Foods, Inc. and Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc., a gain of $153 million from the sale of the Companys interest in Agricore United and a $53 million gain from the sale of the Companys Arkady food ingredient business. Earnings before income taxes for 2007 also include charges of $207 million from the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations, $46 million related to the repurchase of $400 million of the Companys outstanding debentures, and $21 million related to abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Net earnings for 2006 include a $36 million reduction in income tax expense related to the recognition of federal and state income tax credits and adjustments resulting from the reconciliation of filed tax returns to the previously estimated tax provision. Earnings before income taxes for 2006 include charges of $15 million resulting from the Companys adoption of Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation No. 47, Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations, an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 143 (FIN 47), $71 million related to abandonment and write down of long lived assets, $9 million representing the Companys share of a charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets reported by an unconsolidated affiliate of the Company, and $22 million associated with the closure of a citric acid plant and exiting the European animal feed business. Earnings before income taxes for 2006 also include credits of $12 million from the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations, $17 million from the sale of long lived assets, $46 million related to Brazilian transactional tax credits, and $40 million related to realized securities gains. Analysis of Statements of Earnings Net sales and other operating income increased 20% to $44.0 billion due primarily to increased selling prices of agricultural commodities, oilseed and corn processing products and, to a lesser extent, increased sales volumes of agricultural commodities and oilseed processing products. In addition, net sales and other operating income increased $916 million, or 3%, due to currency exchange rate fluctuations. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Net sales and other operating income by segment are as follows: 2007 2006 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing & Origination $ 8,036 $ 7,048 $ 988 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel & Other 5,758 4,726 1,032 Asia 149 119 30 Total Oilseeds Processing 13,943 11,893 2,050 Corn Processing Sweeteners & Starches 2,761 2,529 232 Bioproducts 3,064 2,727 337 Total Corn Processing 5,825 5,256 569 Agricultural Services Merchandising & Handling 20,222 15,954 4,268 Transportation 197 201 (4 ) Total Agricultural Services 20,419 16,155 4,264 Other Wheat, Cocoa, & Malt 3,738 3,217 521 Financial 93 75 18 Total Other 3,831 3,292 539 Total $ 44,018 $ 36,596 $ 7,422 Oilseeds Processing sales increased 17% to $13.9 billion due principally to increased average selling prices of vegetable oil and increased sales volumes of vegetable oil and biodiesel. Vegetable oil selling prices and volumes improved as the markets anticipated new demand from the developing United States biodiesel industry. Biodiesel sales volumes increased due to additional production capacity. Corn Processing sales increased 11% to $5.8 billion due principally to increased sales of Bioproducts and, to a lesser extent, increased sales of Sweeteners and Starches. Bioproducts sales increased primarily due to higher average selling prices of ethanol, partially offset by lower sales volumes. Ethanol average selling prices increased primarily due to higher gasoline prices. Ethanol sales volumes decreased as 2006 sales volumes exceeded production due to the release of inventories built up in anticipation of refiners replacing MTBE with ethanol. Sweeteners and Starches sales increased primarily due to higher average selling prices resulting from good demand for sweetener and starch products. Agricultural Services sales increased 26% to $20.4 billion due principally to increased agricultural commodity prices and increased sales volumes. The increase in commodity prices was primarily due to higher average market prices of corn in North America which had increased 60% from the prior year. Increased sales volumes of global grain merchandising activities also contributed to the increase in Agricultural Services sales. Other sales increased 16% to $3.8 billion primarily due to higher average selling prices of wheat flour products and, to a lesser extent, increased sales volumes and higher average selling prices of cocoa products. Cost of products sold increased 21% to $40.8 billion primarily due to higher average costs of agricultural commodities and increased sales volumes. Manufacturing costs for 2007 and 2006 include a $21 million and $62 million charge, respectively, for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. In addition, cost of products sold increased $874 million, or 3%, due to currency exchange rate fluctuations. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Selling, general, and administrative expenses of $1.2 billion were comparable to 2006 and included $25 million of currency exchange rate increases. Excluding the impact of currency exchange rate increases, selling, general and administrative expenses decreased $23 million due principally to 2006 selling, general and administrative expenses including $20 million of severance costs associated with the closure of a citric acid plant. During 2007 and 2006, the Company issued option grants and restricted stock awards to officers and key employees pursuant to the Companys Long term Management Incentive Program. Certain officers and key employees of the Company receiving option grants and restricted stock awards were eligible for retirement. Compensation expense related to option grants and restricted stock awards issued to these retirement eligible employees is recognized in earnings on the date of grant. Selling, general, and administrative expense for 2007 and 2006 includes compensation expense related to option grants and restricted stock awards granted to retirement eligible employees of $30 million and $31 million, respectively. Other income net increased $1.0 billion primarily due to the $440 million Wilmar Gain, a $357 million gain on the sale of the Companys equity securities of Tyson Foods, Inc. and Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc., a $153 million gain on the sale of the Companys interest in Agricore United, and a $53 million gain on the sale of the Companys Arkady food ingredient business. Other income net also includes a $46 million charge related to the repurchase of $400 million of the Companys outstanding debentures in 2007. Excluding these items, other income net increased $73 million primarily due to a $120 million increase in equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates, and a $53 million increase in investment income, partially offset by a $69 million increase in interest expense and a $27 million reduction in gains on sales of long lived assets. The increase in equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates was primarily due to higher valuations of the Companys private equity fund investments and improved operating results of the Companys Asian oilseed ventures. Interest expense and investment income increased primarily due to increased average borrowing and investment levels. Operating profit by segment is as follows: 2007 2006 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing & Origination $ 414 $ 376 $ 38 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel & Other 202 140 62 Asia 523 53 470 Total Oilseeds Processing 1,139 569 570 Corn Processing Sweeteners & Starches 509 458 51 Bioproducts 596 443 153 Total Corn Processing 1,105 901 204 Agricultural Services Merchandising & Handling 382 94 288 Transportation 156 143 13 Total Agricultural Services 538 237 301 Other Wheat, Cocoa, & Malt 209 228 (19 ) Financial 170 126 44 Total Other 379 354 25 Total Segment Operating Profit 3,161 2,061 1,100 Corporate (7 ) (206 ) 199 Earnings Before Income Taxes $ 3,154 $ 1,855 $ 1,299 Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Oilseeds Processing operating profits increased $570 million to $1.1 billion due principally to the $440 million Wilmar Gain and improved market conditions in all geographic regions. North American processing results improved due principally to abundant oilseed supplies in the United States and good demand for vegetable oil and soybean meal. Vegetable oil values improved as the markets anticipated new demand from the developing United States biodiesel industry. North American processing results were also favorably impacted by lower plant operating costs resulting from improved capacity utilization. Asian joint venture results improved due to improved palm processing operating results partially offset by decreased soy crushing operating results. European processing results improved due principally to abundant oilseed supplies in Europe and strong demand for vegetable oil. The strong demand for vegetable oil is the result of strong biodiesel demand. These increases were partially offset by decreased biodiesel operating profits resulting from higher vegetable oil prices, increased market production capacity, and lower diesel fuel prices. South American processing results declined due principally to the $27 million credit for Brazilian transactional taxes in 2006. Excluding the impact of the credit for Brazilian transactional taxes, South American processing results improved due principally to increased fertilizer margins. The improvement in fertilizer margins was primarily due to higher average sales prices due to improved fertilizer demand combined with stable raw material costs. Operating profits for 2007 include a $6 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Operating profits for 2006 include a $14 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets and a $6 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47. Corn Processing operating profits increased $204 million to $1.1 billion due principally to higher average selling prices and lower energy costs, partially offset by lower ethanol sales volumes and higher net corn costs. Net corn costs increased approximately 60% during 2007 due to significant anticipated demand increases for corn resulting primarily from increasing corn derived ethanol industry capacity. Agricultural commodity market concerns regarding the expected decline in the ending 2006 corn crop carryover also contributed to the increase in corn costs. Sweeteners and Starches operating profits increased $51 million primarily due to higher average sales prices and lower energy costs. Sales prices increased due principally to good demand for sweetener and starch products. These increases were partially offset by increased net corn costs. Sweeteners and Starches operating profits for 2006 include a $5 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47. Bioproducts operating profits increased $153 million primarily due to higher ethanol average selling prices and lower energy costs, partially offset by increased net corn costs and lower ethanol sales volumes. Ethanol average sales prices increased due principally to strong demand from gasoline refiners and higher gasoline prices. Ethanol sales volumes decreased as 2006 sales volumes exceeded production due to the release of inventories built up in anticipation of refiners replacing MTBE with ethanol. Bioproducts operating results for 2007 include a $1 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Bioproducts operating results for 2006 include a $6 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets, a $2 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47, and $6 million of costs related to the closure of a citric acid plant. Agricultural Services operating profits increased $301 million to $538 million due principally to a $153 million gain from the sale of the Companys interest in Agricore United, a Canadian business which specialized in crop input, crop protection services, and grain marketing and merchandising. Excluding the Agricore United gain, Agricultural Services operating profits increased $148 million to $385 million due principally to improved global grain merchandising operating results and, to a lesser extent, improved transportation and North American origination operating results. Global grain merchandising results improved as regional production imbalances allowed the Company to capitalize on merchandising opportunities. North American river transportation operating results increased primarily due to increased barge freight rates created by strong demand for barge capacity. North American origination operating results improved due to good export demand for agricultural commodities and higher ocean freight rates. Agricultural Services operating profits for 2007 include a $12 million trade disruption insurance recovery related to Hurricane Katrina. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Other operating profits increased $25 million to $379 million. Wheat, Cocoa, and Malt operating profits decreased $19 million. Wheat operating profits include a $39 million gain on the sale of the Companys Arkady food ingredient business in 2007 and a $17 million gain from the sale of long lived assets in 2006. Excluding the effect of these one time gains, Wheat, Cocoa, and Malt operating profits declined $41 million primarily due to cocoa operating results declining from prior year levels and to a lesser extent, weaker equity earnings from our investment in Gruma S.A. partially offset by improved operating results of the Companys wheat flour processing operations. Cocoa processing operating results declined primarily due to increased industry production capacity which caused downward pressure on cocoa processing margins. Financial operating profits increased $44 million due principally to increased valuations of the Companys private equity fund investments and higher operating results of the Companys futures commission merchant business, partially offset by lower operating results of the Companys captive insurance operations. The results of the Companys captive insurance operations for 2007 include a $12 million charge related to a Hurricane Katrina trade disruption insurance settlement. Corporate expense decreased $199 million to $7 million due principally to a $345 million increase in realized securities gains principally resulting from sales of the Companys equity securities of Tyson Foods, Inc. and Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc. and a $103 million reduction in unallocated interest expense due principally to higher levels of invested funds and higher interest rates. These decreases were partially offset by a $207 million charge, compared to a $12 million credit in the prior year, related to the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations and a $46 million charge related to the repurchase of $400 million of the Companys outstanding debentures. Income taxes increased due principally to higher pretax earnings and the absence of a $36 million income tax credit in 2006 related to the recognition of federal and state income tax credits and adjustments resulting from the reconciliation of filed tax returns to the previously estimated tax provision. The Companys effective tax rate during 2007 was 31.5% and, after excluding the effect of the 2006 $36 million tax credit, was 31.2% for the prior year. The increase in the Companys effective tax rate was primarily due to changes in the geographic mix of pretax earnings. Liquidity and Capital Resources A Company objective is to have sufficient liquidity, balance sheet strength, and financial flexibility to fund the operating and capital requirements of a capital intensive agricultural based commodity business. At June 30, 2008, the Company had $1.3 billion of cash, cash equivalents, and short term marketable securities and a current ratio, defined as current assets divided by current liabilities, of 1.7 to 1. Included in working capital is $7.8 billion of readily marketable commodity inventories. Cash used in operating activities totaled $3.2 billion for the year compared to $303 million cash generated from operations last year. This change was primarily due to an increase in working capital requirements principally related to increased market prices and, to a lesser extent, increased quantities of agricultural commodity inventories, principally readily marketable commodity inventories, and increased receivables. Cash used in investing activities increased $1.5 billion for the year to $1.9 billion primarily due to increased capital expenditures and decreased proceeds from sales of businesses including the sale of the Companys equity interests in Tyson Foods, Inc., Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc. and Agricore United in 2007. Cash generated by financing activities was $5.2 billion compared to cash used in financing activities of $398 million last year. Net long term borrowings increased primarily as a result of the issuance in 2008 of approximately $3.1 billion of additional long term debt, including $500 million of debentures issued in December 2007, $700 million of notes issued in March 2008, and $1.75 billion of debentures in June 2008, compared to $1.15 billion of convertible senior notes issued in February 2007, partially offset by $480 million of reduced debt payments principally related to the Companys retirement of $400 million of debentures in 2007. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Capital resources were strengthened in 2008 as shown by the increase in the Companys net worth from $11.3 billion to $13.5 billion. The Companys ratio of long term debt to total capital (the sum of the Companys long term debt and shareholders equity) was 36% at June 30, 2008, and 30% at June 30, 2007. This ratio is a measure of the Companys long term liquidity and is an indicator of financial flexibility. The Company currently has $7.4 billion of commercial paper and commercial bank lines available to meet seasonal cash requirements of which $5.2 billion are committed and $2.2 billion are uncommitted. At June 30, 2008, the Company had $3.1 billion of short term debt outstanding. Standard & Poors, Moodys, and Fitch rate the Companys commercial paper as A 1, P 1, and F1, respectively, and rate the Companys long term debt as A, A2, and A, respectively. In addition to the cash flow generated from operations, the Company has access to equity and debt capital through numerous alternatives from public and private sources in domestic and international markets. The Company has outstanding $1.15 billion principal amount of convertible senior notes. As of June 30, 2008, none of the conditions permitting conversion of the notes had been satisfied. As of June 30, 2008, the market price of the Companys common stock was not greater than the exercise price of the purchased call options or warrants related to the convertible senior notes. In June 2008, the Company issued $1.75 billion of debentures as a component of Equity Units. The Equity Units are a combination of (a) debt and (b) forward contracts for the holder to purchase the Companys common stock. The purchase contracts obligate the holder to purchase from the Company, no later than June 1, 2011, for a price of $50 in cash, a certain number of shares, ranging from 1.0453 shares to 1.2544 shares, of the Companys common stock, based on a formula established in the contract. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements In the normal course of business, the Company enters into contracts and commitments which obligate the Company to make payments in the future. The following table sets forth the Companys significant future obligations by time period. Purchases include commodity based contracts entered into in the normal course of business, which are further described in Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, energy related purchase contracts entered into in the normal course of business, and other purchase obligations related to the Companys normal business activities. Where applicable, information included in the Companys consolidated financial statements and notes is cross referenced in this table. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Payments Due by Period Contractual Note Less than 1 3 3 5 More than Obligations Reference Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years (In millions) Purchases Inventories $ 24,230 $ 22,813 $ 1,200 $ 174 $ 43 Energy 952 502 302 80 68 Other 148 58 60 18 12 Total purchases 25,330 23,373 1,562 272 123 Short term debt Note 7 3,123 3,123 Long term debt Note 7 7,993 232 358 380 7,023 Estimated interest payments 9,639 511 808 758 7,562 Operating leases Note 12 1,364 403 402 239 320 Estimated pension and other postretirement plan contributions Note 13 1,217 90 204 229 694 Total $ 48,666 $ 27,732 $ 3,334 $ 1,878 $ 15,722 At June 30, 2008, the Company estimates it will spend approximately $2.5 billion over the next five years to complete currently approved capital projects and acquisitions which is not included in the table above. The Company is a limited partner in various private equity funds which invest primarily in emerging markets. At June 30, 2008, the Companys carrying value of these limited partnership investments was $129 million. The Company has future capital commitments related to these partnerships of $137 million and expects the majority of these additional capital commitments, if called for, to be funded by cash flows generated by the partnerships. The Company also has outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds of $500 million at June 30, 2008. In addition, the Company has entered into agreements, primarily debt guarantee agreements related to equity method investees, which could obligate the Company to make future payments. The Companys liability under these agreements arises only if the primary entity fails to perform its contractual obligation. The Company has collateral for a portion of these contingent obligations. At June 30, 2008, these contingent obligations totaled approximately $135 million. Amounts outstanding for the primary entity under these contingent obligations were $62 million at June 30, 2008. Critical Accounting Policies The process of preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the carrying values of the Companys assets and liabilities as well as the recognition of revenues and expenses. These estimates and judgments are based on the Companys historical experience and managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Certain of the Companys accounting policies are considered critical, as these policies are important to the depiction of the Companys financial statements and require significant or complex judgment by management. Management has discussed with the Companys Audit Committee the development, selection, disclosure, and application of these critical accounting policies. Following are the accounting policies management considers critical to the Companys financial statements. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Inventories and Derivatives Certain of the Companys merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, forward fixed price purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts are valued at estimated market values. These merchandisable agricultural commodities are freely traded, have quoted market prices, and may be sold without significant additional processing. Management estimates market value based on exchange quoted prices, adjusted for differences in local markets. Changes in the market values of these inventories and contracts are recognized in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. If management used different methods or factors to estimate market value, amounts reported as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. Additionally, if market conditions change subsequent to year end, amounts reported in future periods as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. The Company, from time to time, uses derivative contracts designated as cash flow hedges to fix the purchase price of anticipated volumes of commodities to be purchased and processed in a future month, to fix the purchase price of the Companys anticipated natural gas requirements for certain production facilities, and to fix the sales price of anticipated volumes of ethanol. The change in the market value of such derivative contracts has historically been, and is expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. If it is determined that the derivative instruments used are no longer effective at offsetting changes in the price of the hedged item, then the changes in the market value of these exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts would be recorded in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. Employee Benefit Plans The Company provides substantially all domestic employees and employees at certain international subsidiaries with pension benefits. The Company also provides substantially all domestic salaried employees with postretirement health care and life insurance benefits. In order to measure the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans, management makes several estimates and assumptions, including interest rates used to discount certain liabilities, rates of return on assets set aside to fund these plans, rates of compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and anticipated future health care costs. These estimates and assumptions are based on the Companys historical experience combined with managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Management also uses third party actuaries to assist in measuring the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans. If management used different estimates and assumptions regarding these plans, the funded status of the plans could vary significantly, and the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Income Taxes The Company frequently faces challenges from domestic and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company records reserves for estimates of potential additional tax owed by the Company. Deferred tax assets represent items to be used as tax deductions or credits in future tax returns, and the related tax benefit has already been recognized in the Companys income statement. Realization of certain deferred tax assets reflects the Companys tax planning strategies. Valuation allowances related to these deferred tax assets have been established to the extent the realization of the tax benefit is not probable. Based on managements evaluation of the Companys tax position, it is believed the amounts related to these tax exposures are appropriately accrued. To the extent the Company were to favorably resolve matters for which accruals have been established or be required to pay amounts in excess of the aforementioned reserves, the Companys effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be impacted. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and affiliated corporate joint ventures accounted for on the equity method are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by unpredictable factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned unpredictable factors, therefore, may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and profitability of the Companys asset base in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its factories. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment, technology, and companies related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. The Company evaluates goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives for impairment annually. Assets are written down after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these assets, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Valuation of Marketable Securities and Investments in Affiliates The Company classifies the majority of its marketable securities as available for sale and carries these securities at fair value. Investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings and are adjusted, where appropriate, for amortizable basis differences between the investment balance and the underlying net assets of the investee. For publicly traded securities, the fair value of the Companys investments is readily available based on quoted market prices. For non publicly traded securities, managements assessment of fair value is based on valuation methodologies including discounted cash flows and estimates of sales proceeds. In the event of a decline in fair value of an investment below carrying value, management may be required to determine if the decline in fair value is other than temporary. In evaluating the nature of a decline in the fair value of an investment, management considers the market conditions, trends of earnings, discounted cash flows, trading volumes, and other key measures of the investment as well as the Companys ability and intent to hold the investment. When such a decline in value is deemed to be other than temporary, an impairment loss is recognized in the current period operating results to the extent of the decline. See Notes 3 and 5 to the Companys consolidated financial statements for information regarding the Companys marketable securities and investments in affiliates. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these marketable securities, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in: commodity market prices as they relate to the Companys net commodity position, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and price of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to unpredictable factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. To reduce price risk caused by market fluctuations, the Company generally follows a policy of using exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts to minimize its net position of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories and forward cash purchase and sales contracts. The Company will also use exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the volatility of the relationship between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contracts defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company from time to time enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. A sensitivity analysis has been prepared to estimate the Companys exposure to market risk of its daily net commodity position. The Companys daily net commodity position consists of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, related purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts, including those contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements. The fair value of such daily net commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing each net position at quoted futures prices. Market risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in such prices. Actual results may differ. 2008 2007 Long/(Short) Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest position $ 1,260 $ 126 $ 703 $ 70 Lowest position (915 ) (92 ) (565 ) (57 ) Average position 251 25 180 18 The change in fair value of the average position for 2008 compared to 2007 was principally a result of increases in commodity prices and, to a lesser extent, quantities underlying the daily net commodity position. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) Currencies In order to reduce the risk of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, except for amounts permanently invested as described below, the Company follows a policy of entering into currency exchange forward contracts to mitigate its foreign currency risk related to transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currencies applicable to each of its various entities. The instruments used are forward contracts, swaps with banks, and exchange traded futures contracts. The changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $7.0 billion at June 30, 2008, and $5.4 billion at June 30, 2007. This increase is due to an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and appreciation of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar. The potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $695 million and $543 million for 2008 and 2007, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical .5% decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2008 2007 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 7,789 $ 4,862 Excess of fair value over carrying value 99 110 Market risk 308 232 The increase in fair value of long term debt in 2008 resulted principally from the Companys issuance of approximately $3.1 billion in long term debt in 2008. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) The Companys Corn Processing operations and certain other food and animal feed processing operations also utilize agricultural commodities (or products derived from agricultural commodities) as raw materials. In these operations, agricultural commodity market price changes can result in significant fluctuations in cost of products sold, and such price changes cannot necessarily be passed directly through to the selling price of the finished products. The Company conducts its business in many countries. For the majority of the Companys subsidiaries located outside the United States, the local currency is the functional currency. Revenues and expenses denominated in foreign currencies are translated into U.S. dollars at the weighted average exchange rates for the applicable periods. Fluctuations in the exchange rates of foreign currencies, primarily the Euro, British pound, and Canadian dollar, as compared to the U.S. dollar will result in corresponding fluctuations in the U.S. dollar value of revenues and expenses reported by the Company. The impact of these currency exchange rate changes, where significant, is discussed below. The Company measures the performance of its business segments using key operating statistics such as segment operating profit, return on fixed capital investment, return on equity, return on net assets, and cost per metric ton produced. The Companys operating results can vary significantly due to changes in unpredictable factors such as fluctuations in energy prices, weather conditions, crop plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. Due to these unpredictable factors, the Company does not provide forward looking information in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 2008 Compared to 2007 As an agricultural based commodity business, the Company is subject to a variety of market factors which affect the Companys operating results. Strong demand for agricultural commodities and processed products has challenged the global supply chain and provided exceptional margin opportunities in 2008. Strong global demand for protein meal and vegetable oil and strong fertilizer demand in South America positively impacted Oilseeds Processing results. The market price of corn rose due to increased demand, resulting in higher raw material costs for Corn Processing which were only partially passed on in the form of increased selling prices for sweeteners and starches. Average ethanol selling prices decreased due to additional supply entering the market. Large North American crops combined with global wheat shortages created favorable conditions in agricultural merchandising and handling operations. Increased commodity costs resulted in larger LIFO inventory valuation reserves. Earnings before income taxes decreased due principally to gains totaling $1.0 billion before income tax on business disposals recorded in 2007 including $440 million related to the exchange of the Companys interest in certain Asian joint ventures for shares of Wilmar International Limited (the Wilmar gain), a $357 million realized securities gain from sales of the Companys equity securities of Tyson Foods, Inc. and Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc., a gain of $153 million from the sale of the Companys interest in Agricore United, and a $53 million gain from the sale of the Companys Arkady food ingredient business. Earnings before income taxes for 2008 include a charge of $569 million from the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations, compared to a charge of $207 million in 2007. Earnings before income taxes for 2008 also include a $32 million charge related to abandonment and write down of long lived assets, a $38 million gain on sales of securities, and a $21 million gain on the disposal of long lived assets. Earnings before income taxes for 2007 include charges of $46 million related to the repurchase of $400 million of the Companys outstanding debentures and $21 million related to abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Analysis of Statements of Earnings Net sales and other operating income increased 59% to $69.8 billion. Increased selling prices of agricultural commodities and oilseed processing products and, to a lesser extent, corn processing products and wheat flour accounted for 85% of the increase and higher sales volumes, principally of agricultural commodities, ethanol, and biodiesel, also contributed to the increase in net sales. In addition, net sales and other operating income increased $1.83 billion, or 4%, due to currency rate fluctuations. Net sales and other operating income by segment are as follows: 2008 2007 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing & Origination $ 14,477 $ 8,036 $ 6,441 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel & Other 8,588 5,758 2,830 Asia 214 149 65 Total Oilseeds Processing 23,279 13,943 9,336 Corn Processing Sweeteners & Starches 3,546 2,761 785 Bioproducts 3,591 3,064 527 Total Corn Processing 7,137 5,825 1,312 Agricultural Services Merchandising & Handling 33,749 20,222 13,527 Transportation 219 197 22 Total Agricultural Services 33,968 20,419 13,549 Other Wheat, Cocoa, & Malt 5,335 3,738 1,597 Financial 97 93 4 Total Other 5,432 3,831 1,601 Total $ 69,816 $ 44,018 $ 25,798 Oilseeds Processing sales increased 67% to $23.3 billion due principally to increased average selling prices resulting primarily from increases in underlying commodity costs and from continuing strong demand for vegetable oil, biodiesel and protein meal. Sales volumes of vegetable oil, protein meal and biodiesel also increased. Corn Processing sales increased 23% to $7.1 billion. Good demand for sweeteners and starches resulted in higher average selling prices. Bioproducts sales increased primarily as a result of increased ethanol sales volumes partially offset by lower average ethanol selling prices. Increased ethanol sales volumes reflect higher gasoline prices, improved gasoline blending economics and additional demand, principally from newly opened markets in the southeastern United States. Agricultural Services sales increased 66% to $34.0 billion primarily due to increased underlying commodity costs, and to a lesser extent, increased sales volumes. Sales in the Other segment increased 42% to $5.4 billion primarily due to higher average selling prices of wheat flour and, to a lesser extent, higher sales volumes and higher average selling prices of cocoa products. Cost of products sold increased 62% to $66.0 billion primarily due to higher agricultural commodity costs, and, to a lesser extent, higher sales volumes. Manufacturing expenses increased $549 million primarily due to higher energy and transportation fuel costs, increased employee related costs, higher storage and handling costs, increased production capacity, and the impact of foreign currency translation. In addition, cost of products sold increased $1.75 billion, or 4%, due to currency rate fluctuations. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $224 million to $1.4 billion primarily due to higher employee related costs and higher outside service costs, including $44 million related to an organizational realignment and reorganization of the companys European headquarters, and increased $37 million due to the impact of currency rate fluctuations. Other income net decreased $911 million primarily due to gains totaling $1.0 billion on business disposals recorded in 2007 including $440 million related to the Wilmar gain, $357 million realized securities gain from sales of the Companys equity securities of Tyson Foods, Inc. and Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc., a gain of $153 million from the sale of the Companys interest in Agricore United, and a $53 million gain from the sale of the Companys Arkady food ingredient business. Equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates increased $121 million in 2008, primarily related to improved operating results of the Companys investments in U.S. grain export, Asian oilseeds and peanut processing ventures. Other income net also reflects $38 million in gains on sales of securities in 2008, $21 million in gains on disposals of long lived assets in 2008, an increase from 2007 to 2008 of $11 million in charges related to abandonment and write down of long lived assets, and a charge of $46 million related to the repurchase of $400 million of the Companys outstanding debentures in 2007. Operating profit by segment is as follows: 2008 2007 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing & Origination $ 727 $ 414 $ 313 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel & Other 181 202 (21 ) Asia 132 523 (391 ) Total Oilseeds Processing 1,040 1,139 (99 ) Corn Processing Sweeteners & Starches 529 509 20 Bioproducts 432 596 (164 ) Total Corn Processing 961 1,105 (144 ) Agricultural Services Merchandising & Handling 873 382 491 Transportation 144 156 (12 ) Total Agricultural Services 1,017 538 479 Other Wheat, Cocoa, & Malt 217 209 8 Financial 206 170 36 Total Other 423 379 44 Total Segment Operating Profit 3,441 3,161 280 Corporate (817 ) (7 ) (810 ) Earnings Before Income Taxes $ 2,624 $ 3,154 $ (530 ) Oilseeds Processing operating profit decreased 9% to $1.0 billion. Excluding the $440 million Wilmar gain reflected in Asia results in 2007, Oilseeds Processing operating profit increased 49%, primarily due to strong global demand for protein meal, vegetable oil, and fertilizer. Crushing and Origination operating profits increased 76% to $727 million due principally to improved crushing margins in North and South America and improved fertilizer results in South America. Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel and Other operating profits decreased 10% to $181 million due principally to decreased biodiesel margins in Europe and asset impairment charges of $28 million in 2008, partially offset by improved global refining margins. 2007 operating profit for Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel and Other includes a $14 million gain on a business disposal. Excluding the Wilmar gain, Asia operating profits increased 59% to $132 million, principally reflecting the Companys share of improved operating profits of Wilmar International Limited. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Corn Processing operating profits decreased 13% to $961 million, primarily due to higher net corn costs. Sweeteners and Starches operating profits of $529 were relatively unchanged as higher average selling prices were offset by higher net corn costs and increased manufacturing costs. Manufacturing cost increases reflect higher energy costs, higher repair and maintenance expenses, and higher costs for chemicals used in the manufacturing process. Bioproducts operating profits decreased 28% to $432 million primarily due to higher net corn costs, higher manufacturing expenses, and decreased average ethanol selling prices, partially offset by higher sales volumes for ethanol and, to a lesser extent, higher average lysine selling prices and higher lysine sales volumes. Agricultural Services operating profits increased 89% to $1.0 billion. 2007 operating profits in Merchandising and Handling include a $153 million gain on the sale of the Companys interest in Agricore United. Excluding this gain, Merchandising and Handling operating profits increased 281% to $873 million. This increase was primarily due to enhanced merchandising and handling margins caused by volatile global grain and freight markets, favorable risk management results, and to a lesser extent, increased sales volumes. Transportation operating profits decreased 8% to $144 million primarily due to increased fuel costs. Other operating profits increased 12% to $423 million. Wheat, Cocoa and Malt operating profits increased 4% to $217 million. 2007 operating profits for Wheat included a gain of $39 million from the sale of the Companys Arkady food ingredient business. Excluding the Arkady gain, Wheat, Cocoa and Malt operating profits improved 28%, primarily due to improved wheat and malt margins reflecting increased demand, partially offset by decreased cocoa processing margins reflecting higher raw material and operating costs and competitive pressures experienced in the North American chocolate market. Financial operating profits improved 21% to $206 million primarily due to improvements in the Companys futures commission merchant business. Corporate expense increased $810 million to $817 million, primarily due to a $362 million increase in the charge related to the effects of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations, a $371 million decrease in realized securities gains primarily reflecting the $357 million gain recorded in 2007 from sales of the Companys equity securities of Tyson Foods, Inc. and Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc., a $51 million increase in corporate expenses due principally to reorganization and realignment costs, partially offset by a charge of $46 million recorded in 2007 related to the repurchase of $400 million of the Companys outstanding debentures. Income taxes decreased primarily due to lower pretax earnings. The Companys effective tax rate during 2008 of 31.3% was comparable to the 2007 rate of 31.5%. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) 2007 Compared to 2006 As an agricultural based commodity business, the Company is subject to a variety of market factors which affect the Companys operating results. Strong biodiesel demand in Europe continued to create increased vegetable oil demand and positively impacted rapeseed crushing margins in Europe. Abundant oilseed supplies, improved vegetable oil values, and strong protein meal demand have positively impacted oilseed crushing margins in North America. Increased ethanol contracted selling prices, continuing strong ethanol demand, and solid demand for sweetener and starch products improved corn processing results. These increases in corn processing results were partially offset by higher net corn costs. Global grain merchandising opportunities resulting from regional production imbalances also improved operating results. North American river transportation operations were favorably impacted by strong demand for river transportation services which increased barge freight rates. Increasing commodity price levels resulted in larger LIFO inventory valuation reserves. Net earnings increased due principally to improved operating results in all of the Companys operating segments. Earnings before income taxes for 2007 include a gain of $440 million related to the exchange of the Companys interests in certain Asian joint ventures for shares of Wilmar International Limited (the Wilmar Gain), a $357 million realized securities gain from sales of the Companys equity securities of Tyson Foods, Inc. and Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc., a gain of $153 million from the sale of the Companys interest in Agricore United and a $53 million gain from the sale of the Companys Arkady food ingredient business. Earnings before income taxes for 2007 also include charges of $207 million from the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations, $46 million related to the repurchase of $400 million of the Companys outstanding debentures, and $21 million related to abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Net earnings for 2006 include a $36 million reduction in income tax expense related to the recognition of federal and state income tax credits and adjustments resulting from the reconciliation of filed tax returns to the previously estimated tax provision. Earnings before income taxes for 2006 include charges of $15 million resulting from the Companys adoption of Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation No. 47, Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations, an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 143 (FIN 47), $71 million related to abandonment and write down of long lived assets, $9 million representing the Companys share of a charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets reported by an unconsolidated affiliate of the Company, and $22 million associated with the closure of a citric acid plant and exiting the European animal feed business. Earnings before income taxes for 2006 also include credits of $12 million from the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations, $17 million from the sale of long lived assets, $46 million related to Brazilian transactional tax credits, and $40 million related to realized securities gains. Analysis of Statements of Earnings Net sales and other operating income increased 20% to $44.0 billion due primarily to increased selling prices of agricultural commodities, oilseed and corn processing products and, to a lesser extent, increased sales volumes of agricultural commodities and oilseed processing products. In addition, net sales and other operating income increased $916 million, or 3%, due to currency exchange rate fluctuations. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Net sales and other operating income by segment are as follows: 2007 2006 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing & Origination $ 8,036 $ 7,048 $ 988 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel & Other 5,758 4,726 1,032 Asia 149 119 30 Total Oilseeds Processing 13,943 11,893 2,050 Corn Processing Sweeteners & Starches 2,761 2,529 232 Bioproducts 3,064 2,727 337 Total Corn Processing 5,825 5,256 569 Agricultural Services Merchandising & Handling 20,222 15,954 4,268 Transportation 197 201 (4 ) Total Agricultural Services 20,419 16,155 4,264 Other Wheat, Cocoa, & Malt 3,738 3,217 521 Financial 93 75 18 Total Other 3,831 3,292 539 Total $ 44,018 $ 36,596 $ 7,422 Oilseeds Processing sales increased 17% to $13.9 billion due principally to increased average selling prices of vegetable oil and increased sales volumes of vegetable oil and biodiesel. Vegetable oil selling prices and volumes improved as the markets anticipated new demand from the developing United States biodiesel industry. Biodiesel sales volumes increased due to additional production capacity. Corn Processing sales increased 11% to $5.8 billion due principally to increased sales of Bioproducts and, to a lesser extent, increased sales of Sweeteners and Starches. Bioproducts sales increased primarily due to higher average selling prices of ethanol, partially offset by lower sales volumes. Ethanol average selling prices increased primarily due to higher gasoline prices. Ethanol sales volumes decreased as 2006 sales volumes exceeded production due to the release of inventories built up in anticipation of refiners replacing MTBE with ethanol. Sweeteners and Starches sales increased primarily due to higher average selling prices resulting from good demand for sweetener and starch products. Agricultural Services sales increased 26% to $20.4 billion due principally to increased agricultural commodity prices and increased sales volumes. The increase in commodity prices was primarily due to higher average market prices of corn in North America which had increased 60% from the prior year. Increased sales volumes of global grain merchandising activities also contributed to the increase in Agricultural Services sales. Other sales increased 16% to $3.8 billion primarily due to higher average selling prices of wheat flour products and, to a lesser extent, increased sales volumes and higher average selling prices of cocoa products. Cost of products sold increased 21% to $40.8 billion primarily due to higher average costs of agricultural commodities and increased sales volumes. Manufacturing costs for 2007 and 2006 include a $21 million and $62 million charge, respectively, for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. In addition, cost of products sold increased $874 million, or 3%, due to currency exchange rate fluctuations. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Selling, general, and administrative expenses of $1.2 billion were comparable to 2006 and included $25 million of currency exchange rate increases. Excluding the impact of currency exchange rate increases, selling, general and administrative expenses decreased $23 million due principally to 2006 selling, general and administrative expenses including $20 million of severance costs associated with the closure of a citric acid plant. During 2007 and 2006, the Company issued option grants and restricted stock awards to officers and key employees pursuant to the Companys Long term Management Incentive Program. Certain officers and key employees of the Company receiving option grants and restricted stock awards were eligible for retirement. Compensation expense related to option grants and restricted stock awards issued to these retirement eligible employees is recognized in earnings on the date of grant. Selling, general, and administrative expense for 2007 and 2006 includes compensation expense related to option grants and restricted stock awards granted to retirement eligible employees of $30 million and $31 million, respectively. Other income net increased $1.0 billion primarily due to the $440 million Wilmar Gain, a $357 million gain on the sale of the Companys equity securities of Tyson Foods, Inc. and Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc., a $153 million gain on the sale of the Companys interest in Agricore United, and a $53 million gain on the sale of the Companys Arkady food ingredient business. Other income net also includes a $46 million charge related to the repurchase of $400 million of the Companys outstanding debentures in 2007. Excluding these items, other income net increased $73 million primarily due to a $120 million increase in equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates, and a $53 million increase in investment income, partially offset by a $69 million increase in interest expense and a $27 million reduction in gains on sales of long lived assets. The increase in equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates was primarily due to higher valuations of the Companys private equity fund investments and improved operating results of the Companys Asian oilseed ventures. Interest expense and investment income increased primarily due to increased average borrowing and investment levels. Operating profit by segment is as follows: 2007 2006 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing & Origination $ 414 $ 376 $ 38 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel & Other 202 140 62 Asia 523 53 470 Total Oilseeds Processing 1,139 569 570 Corn Processing Sweeteners & Starches 509 458 51 Bioproducts 596 443 153 Total Corn Processing 1,105 901 204 Agricultural Services Merchandising & Handling 382 94 288 Transportation 156 143 13 Total Agricultural Services 538 237 301 Other Wheat, Cocoa, & Malt 209 228 (19 ) Financial 170 126 44 Total Other 379 354 25 Total Segment Operating Profit 3,161 2,061 1,100 Corporate (7 ) (206 ) 199 Earnings Before Income Taxes $ 3,154 $ 1,855 $ 1,299 Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Oilseeds Processing operating profits increased $570 million to $1.1 billion due principally to the $440 million Wilmar Gain and improved market conditions in all geographic regions. North American processing results improved due principally to abundant oilseed supplies in the United States and good demand for vegetable oil and soybean meal. Vegetable oil values improved as the markets anticipated new demand from the developing United States biodiesel industry. North American processing results were also favorably impacted by lower plant operating costs resulting from improved capacity utilization. Asian joint venture results improved due to improved palm processing operating results partially offset by decreased soy crushing operating results. European processing results improved due principally to abundant oilseed supplies in Europe and strong demand for vegetable oil. The strong demand for vegetable oil is the result of strong biodiesel demand. These increases were partially offset by decreased biodiesel operating profits resulting from higher vegetable oil prices, increased market production capacity, and lower diesel fuel prices. South American processing results declined due principally to the $27 million credit for Brazilian transactional taxes in 2006. Excluding the impact of the credit for Brazilian transactional taxes, South American processing results improved due principally to increased fertilizer margins. The improvement in fertilizer margins was primarily due to higher average sales prices due to improved fertilizer demand combined with stable raw material costs. Operating profits for 2007 include a $6 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Operating profits for 2006 include a $14 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets and a $6 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47. Corn Processing operating profits increased $204 million to $1.1 billion due principally to higher average selling prices and lower energy costs, partially offset by lower ethanol sales volumes and higher net corn costs. Net corn costs increased approximately 60% during 2007 due to significant anticipated demand increases for corn resulting primarily from increasing corn derived ethanol industry capacity. Agricultural commodity market concerns regarding the expected decline in the ending 2006 corn crop carryover also contributed to the increase in corn costs. Sweeteners and Starches operating profits increased $51 million primarily due to higher average sales prices and lower energy costs. Sales prices increased due principally to good demand for sweetener and starch products. These increases were partially offset by increased net corn costs. Sweeteners and Starches operating profits for 2006 include a $5 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47. Bioproducts operating profits increased $153 million primarily due to higher ethanol average selling prices and lower energy costs, partially offset by increased net corn costs and lower ethanol sales volumes. Ethanol average sales prices increased due principally to strong demand from gasoline refiners and higher gasoline prices. Ethanol sales volumes decreased as 2006 sales volumes exceeded production due to the release of inventories built up in anticipation of refiners replacing MTBE with ethanol. Bioproducts operating results for 2007 include a $1 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Bioproducts operating results for 2006 include a $6 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets, a $2 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47, and $6 million of costs related to the closure of a citric acid plant. Agricultural Services operating profits increased $301 million to $538 million due principally to a $153 million gain from the sale of the Companys interest in Agricore United, a Canadian business which specialized in crop input, crop protection services, and grain marketing and merchandising. Excluding the Agricore United gain, Agricultural Services operating profits increased $148 million to $385 million due principally to improved global grain merchandising operating results and, to a lesser extent, improved transportation and North American origination operating results. Global grain merchandising results improved as regional production imbalances allowed the Company to capitalize on merchandising opportunities. North American river transportation operating results increased primarily due to increased barge freight rates created by strong demand for barge capacity. North American origination operating results improved due to good export demand for agricultural commodities and higher ocean freight rates. Agricultural Services operating profits for 2007 include a $12 million trade disruption insurance recovery related to Hurricane Katrina. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Other operating profits increased $25 million to $379 million. Wheat, Cocoa, and Malt operating profits decreased $19 million. Wheat operating profits include a $39 million gain on the sale of the Companys Arkady food ingredient business in 2007 and a $17 million gain from the sale of long lived assets in 2006. Excluding the effect of these one time gains, Wheat, Cocoa, and Malt operating profits declined $41 million primarily due to cocoa operating results declining from prior year levels and to a lesser extent, weaker equity earnings from our investment in Gruma S.A. partially offset by improved operating results of the Companys wheat flour processing operations. Cocoa processing operating results declined primarily due to increased industry production capacity which caused downward pressure on cocoa processing margins. Financial operating profits increased $44 million due principally to increased valuations of the Companys private equity fund investments and higher operating results of the Companys futures commission merchant business, partially offset by lower operating results of the Companys captive insurance operations. The results of the Companys captive insurance operations for 2007 include a $12 million charge related to a Hurricane Katrina trade disruption insurance settlement. Corporate expense decreased $199 million to $7 million due principally to a $345 million increase in realized securities gains principally resulting from sales of the Companys equity securities of Tyson Foods, Inc. and Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc. and a $103 million reduction in unallocated interest expense due principally to higher levels of invested funds and higher interest rates. These decreases were partially offset by a $207 million charge, compared to a $12 million credit in the prior year, related to the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations and a $46 million charge related to the repurchase of $400 million of the Companys outstanding debentures. Income taxes increased due principally to higher pretax earnings and the absence of a $36 million income tax credit in 2006 related to the recognition of federal and state income tax credits and adjustments resulting from the reconciliation of filed tax returns to the previously estimated tax provision. The Companys effective tax rate during 2007 was 31.5% and, after excluding the effect of the 2006 $36 million tax credit, was 31.2% for the prior year. The increase in the Companys effective tax rate was primarily due to changes in the geographic mix of pretax earnings. Liquidity and Capital Resources A Company objective is to have sufficient liquidity, balance sheet strength, and financial flexibility to fund the operating and capital requirements of a capital intensive agricultural based commodity business. At June 30, 2008, the Company had $1.3 billion of cash, cash equivalents, and short term marketable securities and a current ratio, defined as current assets divided by current liabilities, of 1.7 to 1. Included in working capital is $7.8 billion of readily marketable commodity inventories. Cash used in operating activities totaled $3.2 billion for the year compared to $303 million cash generated from operations last year. This change was primarily due to an increase in working capital requirements principally related to increased market prices and, to a lesser extent, increased quantities of agricultural commodity inventories, principally readily marketable commodity inventories, and increased receivables. Cash used in investing activities increased $1.5 billion for the year to $1.9 billion primarily due to increased capital expenditures and decreased proceeds from sales of businesses including the sale of the Companys equity interests in Tyson Foods, Inc., Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc. and Agricore United in 2007. Cash generated by financing activities was $5.2 billion compared to cash used in financing activities of $398 million last year. Net long term borrowings increased primarily as a result of the issuance in 2008 of approximately $3.1 billion of additional long term debt, including $500 million of debentures issued in December 2007, $700 million of notes issued in March 2008, and $1.75 billion of debentures in June 2008, compared to $1.15 billion of convertible senior notes issued in February 2007, partially offset by $480 million of reduced debt payments principally related to the Companys retirement of $400 million of debentures in 2007. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Capital resources were strengthened in 2008 as shown by the increase in the Companys net worth from $11.3 billion to $13.5 billion. The Companys ratio of long term debt to total capital (the sum of the Companys long term debt and shareholders equity) was 36% at June 30, 2008, and 30% at June 30, 2007. This ratio is a measure of the Companys long term liquidity and is an indicator of financial flexibility. The Company currently has $7.4 billion of commercial paper and commercial bank lines available to meet seasonal cash requirements of which $5.2 billion are committed and $2.2 billion are uncommitted. At June 30, 2008, the Company had $3.1 billion of short term debt outstanding. Standard & Poors, Moodys, and Fitch rate the Companys commercial paper as A 1, P 1, and F1, respectively, and rate the Companys long term debt as A, A2, and A, respectively. In addition to the cash flow generated from operations, the Company has access to equity and debt capital through numerous alternatives from public and private sources in domestic and international markets. The Company has outstanding $1.15 billion principal amount of convertible senior notes. As of June 30, 2008, none of the conditions permitting conversion of the notes had been satisfied. As of June 30, 2008, the market price of the Companys common stock was not greater than the exercise price of the purchased call options or warrants related to the convertible senior notes. In June 2008, the Company issued $1.75 billion of debentures as a component of Equity Units. The Equity Units are a combination of (a) debt and (b) forward contracts for the holder to purchase the Companys common stock. The purchase contracts obligate the holder to purchase from the Company, no later than June 1, 2011, for a price of $50 in cash, a certain number of shares, ranging from 1.0453 shares to 1.2544 shares, of the Companys common stock, based on a formula established in the contract. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements In the normal course of business, the Company enters into contracts and commitments which obligate the Company to make payments in the future. The following table sets forth the Companys significant future obligations by time period. Purchases include commodity based contracts entered into in the normal course of business, which are further described in Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, energy related purchase contracts entered into in the normal course of business, and other purchase obligations related to the Companys normal business activities. Where applicable, information included in the Companys consolidated financial statements and notes is cross referenced in this table. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Payments Due by Period Contractual Note Less than 1 3 3 5 More than Obligations Reference Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years (In millions) Purchases Inventories $ 24,230 $ 22,813 $ 1,200 $ 174 $ 43 Energy 952 502 302 80 68 Other 148 58 60 18 12 Total purchases 25,330 23,373 1,562 272 123 Short term debt Note 7 3,123 3,123 Long term debt Note 7 7,993 232 358 380 7,023 Estimated interest payments 9,639 511 808 758 7,562 Operating leases Note 12 1,364 403 402 239 320 Estimated pension and other postretirement plan contributions Note 13 1,217 90 204 229 694 Total $ 48,666 $ 27,732 $ 3,334 $ 1,878 $ 15,722 At June 30, 2008, the Company estimates it will spend approximately $2.5 billion over the next five years to complete currently approved capital projects and acquisitions which is not included in the table above. The Company is a limited partner in various private equity funds which invest primarily in emerging markets. At June 30, 2008, the Companys carrying value of these limited partnership investments was $129 million. The Company has future capital commitments related to these partnerships of $137 million and expects the majority of these additional capital commitments, if called for, to be funded by cash flows generated by the partnerships. The Company also has outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds of $500 million at June 30, 2008. In addition, the Company has entered into agreements, primarily debt guarantee agreements related to equity method investees, which could obligate the Company to make future payments. The Companys liability under these agreements arises only if the primary entity fails to perform its contractual obligation. The Company has collateral for a portion of these contingent obligations. At June 30, 2008, these contingent obligations totaled approximately $135 million. Amounts outstanding for the primary entity under these contingent obligations were $62 million at June 30, 2008. Critical Accounting Policies The process of preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the carrying values of the Companys assets and liabilities as well as the recognition of revenues and expenses. These estimates and judgments are based on the Companys historical experience and managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Certain of the Companys accounting policies are considered critical, as these policies are important to the depiction of the Companys financial statements and require significant or complex judgment by management. Management has discussed with the Companys Audit Committee the development, selection, disclosure, and application of these critical accounting policies. Following are the accounting policies management considers critical to the Companys financial statements. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Inventories and Derivatives Certain of the Companys merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, forward fixed price purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts are valued at estimated market values. These merchandisable agricultural commodities are freely traded, have quoted market prices, and may be sold without significant additional processing. Management estimates market value based on exchange quoted prices, adjusted for differences in local markets. Changes in the market values of these inventories and contracts are recognized in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. If management used different methods or factors to estimate market value, amounts reported as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. Additionally, if market conditions change subsequent to year end, amounts reported in future periods as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. The Company, from time to time, uses derivative contracts designated as cash flow hedges to fix the purchase price of anticipated volumes of commodities to be purchased and processed in a future month, to fix the purchase price of the Companys anticipated natural gas requirements for certain production facilities, and to fix the sales price of anticipated volumes of ethanol. The change in the market value of such derivative contracts has historically been, and is expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. If it is determined that the derivative instruments used are no longer effective at offsetting changes in the price of the hedged item, then the changes in the market value of these exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts would be recorded in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. Employee Benefit Plans The Company provides substantially all domestic employees and employees at certain international subsidiaries with pension benefits. The Company also provides substantially all domestic salaried employees with postretirement health care and life insurance benefits. In order to measure the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans, management makes several estimates and assumptions, including interest rates used to discount certain liabilities, rates of return on assets set aside to fund these plans, rates of compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and anticipated future health care costs. These estimates and assumptions are based on the Companys historical experience combined with managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Management also uses third party actuaries to assist in measuring the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans. If management used different estimates and assumptions regarding these plans, the funded status of the plans could vary significantly, and the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Income Taxes The Company frequently faces challenges from domestic and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company records reserves for estimates of potential additional tax owed by the Company. Deferred tax assets represent items to be used as tax deductions or credits in future tax returns, and the related tax benefit has already been recognized in the Companys income statement. Realization of certain deferred tax assets reflects the Companys tax planning strategies. Valuation allowances related to these deferred tax assets have been established to the extent the realization of the tax benefit is not probable. Based on managements evaluation of the Companys tax position, it is believed the amounts related to these tax exposures are appropriately accrued. To the extent the Company were to favorably resolve matters for which accruals have been established or be required to pay amounts in excess of the aforementioned reserves, the Companys effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be impacted. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and affiliated corporate joint ventures accounted for on the equity method are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by unpredictable factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned unpredictable factors, therefore, may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and profitability of the Companys asset base in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its factories. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment, technology, and companies related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. The Company evaluates goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives for impairment annually. Assets are written down after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these assets, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Valuation of Marketable Securities and Investments in Affiliates The Company classifies the majority of its marketable securities as available for sale and carries these securities at fair value. Investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings and are adjusted, where appropriate, for amortizable basis differences between the investment balance and the underlying net assets of the investee. For publicly traded securities, the fair value of the Companys investments is readily available based on quoted market prices. For non publicly traded securities, managements assessment of fair value is based on valuation methodologies including discounted cash flows and estimates of sales proceeds. In the event of a decline in fair value of an investment below carrying value, management may be required to determine if the decline in fair value is other than temporary. In evaluating the nature of a decline in the fair value of an investment, management considers the market conditions, trends of earnings, discounted cash flows, trading volumes, and other key measures of the investment as well as the Companys ability and intent to hold the investment. When such a decline in value is deemed to be other than temporary, an impairment loss is recognized in the current period operating results to the extent of the decline. See Notes 3 and 5 to the Companys consolidated financial statements for information regarding the Companys marketable securities and investments in affiliates. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these marketable securities, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in: commodity market prices as they relate to the Companys net commodity position, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and price of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to unpredictable factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. To reduce price risk caused by market fluctuations, the Company generally follows a policy of using exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts to minimize its net position of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories and forward cash purchase and sales contracts. The Company will also use exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the volatility of the relationship between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contracts defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company from time to time enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. A sensitivity analysis has been prepared to estimate the Companys exposure to market risk of its daily net commodity position. The Companys daily net commodity position consists of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, related purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts, including those contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements. The fair value of such daily net commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing each net position at quoted futures prices. Market risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in such prices. Actual results may differ. 2008 2007 Long/(Short) Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest position $ 1,260 $ 126 $ 703 $ 70 Lowest position (915 ) (92 ) (565 ) (57 ) Average position 251 25 180 18 The change in fair value of the average position for 2008 compared to 2007 was principally a result of increases in commodity prices and, to a lesser extent, quantities underlying the daily net commodity position. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) Currencies In order to reduce the risk of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, except for amounts permanently invested as described below, the Company follows a policy of entering into currency exchange forward contracts to mitigate its foreign currency risk related to transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currencies applicable to each of its various entities. The instruments used are forward contracts, swaps with banks, and exchange traded futures contracts. The changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $7.0 billion at June 30, 2008, and $5.4 billion at June 30, 2007. This increase is due to an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and appreciation of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar. The potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $695 million and $543 million for 2008 and 2007, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical .5% decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2008 2007 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 7,789 $ 4,862 Excess of fair value over carrying value 99 110 Market risk 308 232 The increase in fair value of long term debt in 2008 resulted principally from the Companys issuance of approximately $3.1 billion in long term debt in 2008. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Analysis of Statements of Earnings Net sales and other operating income increased 59% to $69.8 billion. Increased selling prices of agricultural commodities and oilseed processing products and, to a lesser extent, corn processing products and wheat flour accounted for 85% of the increase and higher sales volumes, principally of agricultural commodities, ethanol, and biodiesel, also contributed to the increase in net sales. In addition, net sales and other operating income increased $1.83 billion, or 4%, due to currency rate fluctuations. Net sales and other operating income by segment are as follows: 2008 2007 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing & Origination $ 14,477 $ 8,036 $ 6,441 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel & Other 8,588 5,758 2,830 Asia 214 149 65 Total Oilseeds Processing 23,279 13,943 9,336 Corn Processing Sweeteners & Starches 3,546 2,761 785 Bioproducts 3,591 3,064 527 Total Corn Processing 7,137 5,825 1,312 Agricultural Services Merchandising & Handling 33,749 20,222 13,527 Transportation 219 197 22 Total Agricultural Services 33,968 20,419 13,549 Other Wheat, Cocoa, & Malt 5,335 3,738 1,597 Financial 97 93 4 Total Other 5,432 3,831 1,601 Total $ 69,816 $ 44,018 $ 25,798 Oilseeds Processing sales increased 67% to $23.3 billion due principally to increased average selling prices resulting primarily from increases in underlying commodity costs and from continuing strong demand for vegetable oil, biodiesel and protein meal. Sales volumes of vegetable oil, protein meal and biodiesel also increased. Corn Processing sales increased 23% to $7.1 billion. Good demand for sweeteners and starches resulted in higher average selling prices. Bioproducts sales increased primarily as a result of increased ethanol sales volumes partially offset by lower average ethanol selling prices. Increased ethanol sales volumes reflect higher gasoline prices, improved gasoline blending economics and additional demand, principally from newly opened markets in the southeastern United States. Agricultural Services sales increased 66% to $34.0 billion primarily due to increased underlying commodity costs, and to a lesser extent, increased sales volumes. Sales in the Other segment increased 42% to $5.4 billion primarily due to higher average selling prices of wheat flour and, to a lesser extent, higher sales volumes and higher average selling prices of cocoa products. Cost of products sold increased 62% to $66.0 billion primarily due to higher agricultural commodity costs, and, to a lesser extent, higher sales volumes. Manufacturing expenses increased $549 million primarily due to higher energy and transportation fuel costs, increased employee related costs, higher storage and handling costs, increased production capacity, and the impact of foreign currency translation. In addition, cost of products sold increased $1.75 billion, or 4%, due to currency rate fluctuations. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $224 million to $1.4 billion primarily due to higher employee related costs and higher outside service costs, including $44 million related to an organizational realignment and reorganization of the companys European headquarters, and increased $37 million due to the impact of currency rate fluctuations. Other income net decreased $911 million primarily due to gains totaling $1.0 billion on business disposals recorded in 2007 including $440 million related to the Wilmar gain, $357 million realized securities gain from sales of the Companys equity securities of Tyson Foods, Inc. and Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc., a gain of $153 million from the sale of the Companys interest in Agricore United, and a $53 million gain from the sale of the Companys Arkady food ingredient business. Equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates increased $121 million in 2008, primarily related to improved operating results of the Companys investments in U.S. grain export, Asian oilseeds and peanut processing ventures. Other income net also reflects $38 million in gains on sales of securities in 2008, $21 million in gains on disposals of long lived assets in 2008, an increase from 2007 to 2008 of $11 million in charges related to abandonment and write down of long lived assets, and a charge of $46 million related to the repurchase of $400 million of the Companys outstanding debentures in 2007. Operating profit by segment is as follows: 2008 2007 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing & Origination $ 727 $ 414 $ 313 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel & Other 181 202 (21 ) Asia 132 523 (391 ) Total Oilseeds Processing 1,040 1,139 (99 ) Corn Processing Sweeteners & Starches 529 509 20 Bioproducts 432 596 (164 ) Total Corn Processing 961 1,105 (144 ) Agricultural Services Merchandising & Handling 873 382 491 Transportation 144 156 (12 ) Total Agricultural Services 1,017 538 479 Other Wheat, Cocoa, & Malt 217 209 8 Financial 206 170 36 Total Other 423 379 44 Total Segment Operating Profit 3,441 3,161 280 Corporate (817 ) (7 ) (810 ) Earnings Before Income Taxes $ 2,624 $ 3,154 $ (530 ) Oilseeds Processing operating profit decreased 9% to $1.0 billion. Excluding the $440 million Wilmar gain reflected in Asia results in 2007, Oilseeds Processing operating profit increased 49%, primarily due to strong global demand for protein meal, vegetable oil, and fertilizer. Crushing and Origination operating profits increased 76% to $727 million due principally to improved crushing margins in North and South America and improved fertilizer results in South America. Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel and Other operating profits decreased 10% to $181 million due principally to decreased biodiesel margins in Europe and asset impairment charges of $28 million in 2008, partially offset by improved global refining margins. 2007 operating profit for Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel and Other includes a $14 million gain on a business disposal. Excluding the Wilmar gain, Asia operating profits increased 59% to $132 million, principally reflecting the Companys share of improved operating profits of Wilmar International Limited. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Corn Processing operating profits decreased 13% to $961 million, primarily due to higher net corn costs. Sweeteners and Starches operating profits of $529 were relatively unchanged as higher average selling prices were offset by higher net corn costs and increased manufacturing costs. Manufacturing cost increases reflect higher energy costs, higher repair and maintenance expenses, and higher costs for chemicals used in the manufacturing process. Bioproducts operating profits decreased 28% to $432 million primarily due to higher net corn costs, higher manufacturing expenses, and decreased average ethanol selling prices, partially offset by higher sales volumes for ethanol and, to a lesser extent, higher average lysine selling prices and higher lysine sales volumes. Agricultural Services operating profits increased 89% to $1.0 billion. 2007 operating profits in Merchandising and Handling include a $153 million gain on the sale of the Companys interest in Agricore United. Excluding this gain, Merchandising and Handling operating profits increased 281% to $873 million. This increase was primarily due to enhanced merchandising and handling margins caused by volatile global grain and freight markets, favorable risk management results, and to a lesser extent, increased sales volumes. Transportation operating profits decreased 8% to $144 million primarily due to increased fuel costs. Other operating profits increased 12% to $423 million. Wheat, Cocoa and Malt operating profits increased 4% to $217 million. 2007 operating profits for Wheat included a gain of $39 million from the sale of the Companys Arkady food ingredient business. Excluding the Arkady gain, Wheat, Cocoa and Malt operating profits improved 28%, primarily due to improved wheat and malt margins reflecting increased demand, partially offset by decreased cocoa processing margins reflecting higher raw material and operating costs and competitive pressures experienced in the North American chocolate market. Financial operating profits improved 21% to $206 million primarily due to improvements in the Companys futures commission merchant business. Corporate expense increased $810 million to $817 million, primarily due to a $362 million increase in the charge related to the effects of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations, a $371 million decrease in realized securities gains primarily reflecting the $357 million gain recorded in 2007 from sales of the Companys equity securities of Tyson Foods, Inc. and Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc., a $51 million increase in corporate expenses due principally to reorganization and realignment costs, partially offset by a charge of $46 million recorded in 2007 related to the repurchase of $400 million of the Companys outstanding debentures. Income taxes decreased primarily due to lower pretax earnings. The Companys effective tax rate during 2008 of 31.3% was comparable to the 2007 rate of 31.5%. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) 2007 Compared to 2006 As an agricultural based commodity business, the Company is subject to a variety of market factors which affect the Companys operating results. Strong biodiesel demand in Europe continued to create increased vegetable oil demand and positively impacted rapeseed crushing margins in Europe. Abundant oilseed supplies, improved vegetable oil values, and strong protein meal demand have positively impacted oilseed crushing margins in North America. Increased ethanol contracted selling prices, continuing strong ethanol demand, and solid demand for sweetener and starch products improved corn processing results. These increases in corn processing results were partially offset by higher net corn costs. Global grain merchandising opportunities resulting from regional production imbalances also improved operating results. North American river transportation operations were favorably impacted by strong demand for river transportation services which increased barge freight rates. Increasing commodity price levels resulted in larger LIFO inventory valuation reserves. Net earnings increased due principally to improved operating results in all of the Companys operating segments. Earnings before income taxes for 2007 include a gain of $440 million related to the exchange of the Companys interests in certain Asian joint ventures for shares of Wilmar International Limited (the Wilmar Gain), a $357 million realized securities gain from sales of the Companys equity securities of Tyson Foods, Inc. and Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc., a gain of $153 million from the sale of the Companys interest in Agricore United and a $53 million gain from the sale of the Companys Arkady food ingredient business. Earnings before income taxes for 2007 also include charges of $207 million from the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations, $46 million related to the repurchase of $400 million of the Companys outstanding debentures, and $21 million related to abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Net earnings for 2006 include a $36 million reduction in income tax expense related to the recognition of federal and state income tax credits and adjustments resulting from the reconciliation of filed tax returns to the previously estimated tax provision. Earnings before income taxes for 2006 include charges of $15 million resulting from the Companys adoption of Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation No. 47, Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations, an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 143 (FIN 47), $71 million related to abandonment and write down of long lived assets, $9 million representing the Companys share of a charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets reported by an unconsolidated affiliate of the Company, and $22 million associated with the closure of a citric acid plant and exiting the European animal feed business. Earnings before income taxes for 2006 also include credits of $12 million from the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations, $17 million from the sale of long lived assets, $46 million related to Brazilian transactional tax credits, and $40 million related to realized securities gains. Analysis of Statements of Earnings Net sales and other operating income increased 20% to $44.0 billion due primarily to increased selling prices of agricultural commodities, oilseed and corn processing products and, to a lesser extent, increased sales volumes of agricultural commodities and oilseed processing products. In addition, net sales and other operating income increased $916 million, or 3%, due to currency exchange rate fluctuations. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Net sales and other operating income by segment are as follows: 2007 2006 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing & Origination $ 8,036 $ 7,048 $ 988 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel & Other 5,758 4,726 1,032 Asia 149 119 30 Total Oilseeds Processing 13,943 11,893 2,050 Corn Processing Sweeteners & Starches 2,761 2,529 232 Bioproducts 3,064 2,727 337 Total Corn Processing 5,825 5,256 569 Agricultural Services Merchandising & Handling 20,222 15,954 4,268 Transportation 197 201 (4 ) Total Agricultural Services 20,419 16,155 4,264 Other Wheat, Cocoa, & Malt 3,738 3,217 521 Financial 93 75 18 Total Other 3,831 3,292 539 Total $ 44,018 $ 36,596 $ 7,422 Oilseeds Processing sales increased 17% to $13.9 billion due principally to increased average selling prices of vegetable oil and increased sales volumes of vegetable oil and biodiesel. Vegetable oil selling prices and volumes improved as the markets anticipated new demand from the developing United States biodiesel industry. Biodiesel sales volumes increased due to additional production capacity. Corn Processing sales increased 11% to $5.8 billion due principally to increased sales of Bioproducts and, to a lesser extent, increased sales of Sweeteners and Starches. Bioproducts sales increased primarily due to higher average selling prices of ethanol, partially offset by lower sales volumes. Ethanol average selling prices increased primarily due to higher gasoline prices. Ethanol sales volumes decreased as 2006 sales volumes exceeded production due to the release of inventories built up in anticipation of refiners replacing MTBE with ethanol. Sweeteners and Starches sales increased primarily due to higher average selling prices resulting from good demand for sweetener and starch products. Agricultural Services sales increased 26% to $20.4 billion due principally to increased agricultural commodity prices and increased sales volumes. The increase in commodity prices was primarily due to higher average market prices of corn in North America which had increased 60% from the prior year. Increased sales volumes of global grain merchandising activities also contributed to the increase in Agricultural Services sales. Other sales increased 16% to $3.8 billion primarily due to higher average selling prices of wheat flour products and, to a lesser extent, increased sales volumes and higher average selling prices of cocoa products. Cost of products sold increased 21% to $40.8 billion primarily due to higher average costs of agricultural commodities and increased sales volumes. Manufacturing costs for 2007 and 2006 include a $21 million and $62 million charge, respectively, for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. In addition, cost of products sold increased $874 million, or 3%, due to currency exchange rate fluctuations. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Selling, general, and administrative expenses of $1.2 billion were comparable to 2006 and included $25 million of currency exchange rate increases. Excluding the impact of currency exchange rate increases, selling, general and administrative expenses decreased $23 million due principally to 2006 selling, general and administrative expenses including $20 million of severance costs associated with the closure of a citric acid plant. During 2007 and 2006, the Company issued option grants and restricted stock awards to officers and key employees pursuant to the Companys Long term Management Incentive Program. Certain officers and key employees of the Company receiving option grants and restricted stock awards were eligible for retirement. Compensation expense related to option grants and restricted stock awards issued to these retirement eligible employees is recognized in earnings on the date of grant. Selling, general, and administrative expense for 2007 and 2006 includes compensation expense related to option grants and restricted stock awards granted to retirement eligible employees of $30 million and $31 million, respectively. Other income net increased $1.0 billion primarily due to the $440 million Wilmar Gain, a $357 million gain on the sale of the Companys equity securities of Tyson Foods, Inc. and Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc., a $153 million gain on the sale of the Companys interest in Agricore United, and a $53 million gain on the sale of the Companys Arkady food ingredient business. Other income net also includes a $46 million charge related to the repurchase of $400 million of the Companys outstanding debentures in 2007. Excluding these items, other income net increased $73 million primarily due to a $120 million increase in equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates, and a $53 million increase in investment income, partially offset by a $69 million increase in interest expense and a $27 million reduction in gains on sales of long lived assets. The increase in equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates was primarily due to higher valuations of the Companys private equity fund investments and improved operating results of the Companys Asian oilseed ventures. Interest expense and investment income increased primarily due to increased average borrowing and investment levels. Operating profit by segment is as follows: 2007 2006 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing & Origination $ 414 $ 376 $ 38 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel & Other 202 140 62 Asia 523 53 470 Total Oilseeds Processing 1,139 569 570 Corn Processing Sweeteners & Starches 509 458 51 Bioproducts 596 443 153 Total Corn Processing 1,105 901 204 Agricultural Services Merchandising & Handling 382 94 288 Transportation 156 143 13 Total Agricultural Services 538 237 301 Other Wheat, Cocoa, & Malt 209 228 (19 ) Financial 170 126 44 Total Other 379 354 25 Total Segment Operating Profit 3,161 2,061 1,100 Corporate (7 ) (206 ) 199 Earnings Before Income Taxes $ 3,154 $ 1,855 $ 1,299 Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Oilseeds Processing operating profits increased $570 million to $1.1 billion due principally to the $440 million Wilmar Gain and improved market conditions in all geographic regions. North American processing results improved due principally to abundant oilseed supplies in the United States and good demand for vegetable oil and soybean meal. Vegetable oil values improved as the markets anticipated new demand from the developing United States biodiesel industry. North American processing results were also favorably impacted by lower plant operating costs resulting from improved capacity utilization. Asian joint venture results improved due to improved palm processing operating results partially offset by decreased soy crushing operating results. European processing results improved due principally to abundant oilseed supplies in Europe and strong demand for vegetable oil. The strong demand for vegetable oil is the result of strong biodiesel demand. These increases were partially offset by decreased biodiesel operating profits resulting from higher vegetable oil prices, increased market production capacity, and lower diesel fuel prices. South American processing results declined due principally to the $27 million credit for Brazilian transactional taxes in 2006. Excluding the impact of the credit for Brazilian transactional taxes, South American processing results improved due principally to increased fertilizer margins. The improvement in fertilizer margins was primarily due to higher average sales prices due to improved fertilizer demand combined with stable raw material costs. Operating profits for 2007 include a $6 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Operating profits for 2006 include a $14 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets and a $6 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47. Corn Processing operating profits increased $204 million to $1.1 billion due principally to higher average selling prices and lower energy costs, partially offset by lower ethanol sales volumes and higher net corn costs. Net corn costs increased approximately 60% during 2007 due to significant anticipated demand increases for corn resulting primarily from increasing corn derived ethanol industry capacity. Agricultural commodity market concerns regarding the expected decline in the ending 2006 corn crop carryover also contributed to the increase in corn costs. Sweeteners and Starches operating profits increased $51 million primarily due to higher average sales prices and lower energy costs. Sales prices increased due principally to good demand for sweetener and starch products. These increases were partially offset by increased net corn costs. Sweeteners and Starches operating profits for 2006 include a $5 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47. Bioproducts operating profits increased $153 million primarily due to higher ethanol average selling prices and lower energy costs, partially offset by increased net corn costs and lower ethanol sales volumes. Ethanol average sales prices increased due principally to strong demand from gasoline refiners and higher gasoline prices. Ethanol sales volumes decreased as 2006 sales volumes exceeded production due to the release of inventories built up in anticipation of refiners replacing MTBE with ethanol. Bioproducts operating results for 2007 include a $1 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Bioproducts operating results for 2006 include a $6 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets, a $2 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47, and $6 million of costs related to the closure of a citric acid plant. Agricultural Services operating profits increased $301 million to $538 million due principally to a $153 million gain from the sale of the Companys interest in Agricore United, a Canadian business which specialized in crop input, crop protection services, and grain marketing and merchandising. Excluding the Agricore United gain, Agricultural Services operating profits increased $148 million to $385 million due principally to improved global grain merchandising operating results and, to a lesser extent, improved transportation and North American origination operating results. Global grain merchandising results improved as regional production imbalances allowed the Company to capitalize on merchandising opportunities. North American river transportation operating results increased primarily due to increased barge freight rates created by strong demand for barge capacity. North American origination operating results improved due to good export demand for agricultural commodities and higher ocean freight rates. Agricultural Services operating profits for 2007 include a $12 million trade disruption insurance recovery related to Hurricane Katrina. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Other operating profits increased $25 million to $379 million. Wheat, Cocoa, and Malt operating profits decreased $19 million. Wheat operating profits include a $39 million gain on the sale of the Companys Arkady food ingredient business in 2007 and a $17 million gain from the sale of long lived assets in 2006. Excluding the effect of these one time gains, Wheat, Cocoa, and Malt operating profits declined $41 million primarily due to cocoa operating results declining from prior year levels and to a lesser extent, weaker equity earnings from our investment in Gruma S.A. partially offset by improved operating results of the Companys wheat flour processing operations. Cocoa processing operating results declined primarily due to increased industry production capacity which caused downward pressure on cocoa processing margins. Financial operating profits increased $44 million due principally to increased valuations of the Companys private equity fund investments and higher operating results of the Companys futures commission merchant business, partially offset by lower operating results of the Companys captive insurance operations. The results of the Companys captive insurance operations for 2007 include a $12 million charge related to a Hurricane Katrina trade disruption insurance settlement. Corporate expense decreased $199 million to $7 million due principally to a $345 million increase in realized securities gains principally resulting from sales of the Companys equity securities of Tyson Foods, Inc. and Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc. and a $103 million reduction in unallocated interest expense due principally to higher levels of invested funds and higher interest rates. These decreases were partially offset by a $207 million charge, compared to a $12 million credit in the prior year, related to the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations and a $46 million charge related to the repurchase of $400 million of the Companys outstanding debentures. Income taxes increased due principally to higher pretax earnings and the absence of a $36 million income tax credit in 2006 related to the recognition of federal and state income tax credits and adjustments resulting from the reconciliation of filed tax returns to the previously estimated tax provision. The Companys effective tax rate during 2007 was 31.5% and, after excluding the effect of the 2006 $36 million tax credit, was 31.2% for the prior year. The increase in the Companys effective tax rate was primarily due to changes in the geographic mix of pretax earnings. Liquidity and Capital Resources A Company objective is to have sufficient liquidity, balance sheet strength, and financial flexibility to fund the operating and capital requirements of a capital intensive agricultural based commodity business. At June 30, 2008, the Company had $1.3 billion of cash, cash equivalents, and short term marketable securities and a current ratio, defined as current assets divided by current liabilities, of 1.7 to 1. Included in working capital is $7.8 billion of readily marketable commodity inventories. Cash used in operating activities totaled $3.2 billion for the year compared to $303 million cash generated from operations last year. This change was primarily due to an increase in working capital requirements principally related to increased market prices and, to a lesser extent, increased quantities of agricultural commodity inventories, principally readily marketable commodity inventories, and increased receivables. Cash used in investing activities increased $1.5 billion for the year to $1.9 billion primarily due to increased capital expenditures and decreased proceeds from sales of businesses including the sale of the Companys equity interests in Tyson Foods, Inc., Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc. and Agricore United in 2007. Cash generated by financing activities was $5.2 billion compared to cash used in financing activities of $398 million last year. Net long term borrowings increased primarily as a result of the issuance in 2008 of approximately $3.1 billion of additional long term debt, including $500 million of debentures issued in December 2007, $700 million of notes issued in March 2008, and $1.75 billion of debentures in June 2008, compared to $1.15 billion of convertible senior notes issued in February 2007, partially offset by $480 million of reduced debt payments principally related to the Companys retirement of $400 million of debentures in 2007. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Capital resources were strengthened in 2008 as shown by the increase in the Companys net worth from $11.3 billion to $13.5 billion. The Companys ratio of long term debt to total capital (the sum of the Companys long term debt and shareholders equity) was 36% at June 30, 2008, and 30% at June 30, 2007. This ratio is a measure of the Companys long term liquidity and is an indicator of financial flexibility. The Company currently has $7.4 billion of commercial paper and commercial bank lines available to meet seasonal cash requirements of which $5.2 billion are committed and $2.2 billion are uncommitted. At June 30, 2008, the Company had $3.1 billion of short term debt outstanding. Standard & Poors, Moodys, and Fitch rate the Companys commercial paper as A 1, P 1, and F1, respectively, and rate the Companys long term debt as A, A2, and A, respectively. In addition to the cash flow generated from operations, the Company has access to equity and debt capital through numerous alternatives from public and private sources in domestic and international markets. The Company has outstanding $1.15 billion principal amount of convertible senior notes. As of June 30, 2008, none of the conditions permitting conversion of the notes had been satisfied. As of June 30, 2008, the market price of the Companys common stock was not greater than the exercise price of the purchased call options or warrants related to the convertible senior notes. In June 2008, the Company issued $1.75 billion of debentures as a component of Equity Units. The Equity Units are a combination of (a) debt and (b) forward contracts for the holder to purchase the Companys common stock. The purchase contracts obligate the holder to purchase from the Company, no later than June 1, 2011, for a price of $50 in cash, a certain number of shares, ranging from 1.0453 shares to 1.2544 shares, of the Companys common stock, based on a formula established in the contract. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements In the normal course of business, the Company enters into contracts and commitments which obligate the Company to make payments in the future. The following table sets forth the Companys significant future obligations by time period. Purchases include commodity based contracts entered into in the normal course of business, which are further described in Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, energy related purchase contracts entered into in the normal course of business, and other purchase obligations related to the Companys normal business activities. Where applicable, information included in the Companys consolidated financial statements and notes is cross referenced in this table. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Payments Due by Period Contractual Note Less than 1 3 3 5 More than Obligations Reference Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years (In millions) Purchases Inventories $ 24,230 $ 22,813 $ 1,200 $ 174 $ 43 Energy 952 502 302 80 68 Other 148 58 60 18 12 Total purchases 25,330 23,373 1,562 272 123 Short term debt Note 7 3,123 3,123 Long term debt Note 7 7,993 232 358 380 7,023 Estimated interest payments 9,639 511 808 758 7,562 Operating leases Note 12 1,364 403 402 239 320 Estimated pension and other postretirement plan contributions Note 13 1,217 90 204 229 694 Total $ 48,666 $ 27,732 $ 3,334 $ 1,878 $ 15,722 At June 30, 2008, the Company estimates it will spend approximately $2.5 billion over the next five years to complete currently approved capital projects and acquisitions which is not included in the table above. The Company is a limited partner in various private equity funds which invest primarily in emerging markets. At June 30, 2008, the Companys carrying value of these limited partnership investments was $129 million. The Company has future capital commitments related to these partnerships of $137 million and expects the majority of these additional capital commitments, if called for, to be funded by cash flows generated by the partnerships. The Company also has outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds of $500 million at June 30, 2008. In addition, the Company has entered into agreements, primarily debt guarantee agreements related to equity method investees, which could obligate the Company to make future payments. The Companys liability under these agreements arises only if the primary entity fails to perform its contractual obligation. The Company has collateral for a portion of these contingent obligations. At June 30, 2008, these contingent obligations totaled approximately $135 million. Amounts outstanding for the primary entity under these contingent obligations were $62 million at June 30, 2008. Critical Accounting Policies The process of preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the carrying values of the Companys assets and liabilities as well as the recognition of revenues and expenses. These estimates and judgments are based on the Companys historical experience and managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Certain of the Companys accounting policies are considered critical, as these policies are important to the depiction of the Companys financial statements and require significant or complex judgment by management. Management has discussed with the Companys Audit Committee the development, selection, disclosure, and application of these critical accounting policies. Following are the accounting policies management considers critical to the Companys financial statements. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Inventories and Derivatives Certain of the Companys merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, forward fixed price purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts are valued at estimated market values. These merchandisable agricultural commodities are freely traded, have quoted market prices, and may be sold without significant additional processing. Management estimates market value based on exchange quoted prices, adjusted for differences in local markets. Changes in the market values of these inventories and contracts are recognized in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. If management used different methods or factors to estimate market value, amounts reported as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. Additionally, if market conditions change subsequent to year end, amounts reported in future periods as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. The Company, from time to time, uses derivative contracts designated as cash flow hedges to fix the purchase price of anticipated volumes of commodities to be purchased and processed in a future month, to fix the purchase price of the Companys anticipated natural gas requirements for certain production facilities, and to fix the sales price of anticipated volumes of ethanol. The change in the market value of such derivative contracts has historically been, and is expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. If it is determined that the derivative instruments used are no longer effective at offsetting changes in the price of the hedged item, then the changes in the market value of these exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts would be recorded in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. Employee Benefit Plans The Company provides substantially all domestic employees and employees at certain international subsidiaries with pension benefits. The Company also provides substantially all domestic salaried employees with postretirement health care and life insurance benefits. In order to measure the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans, management makes several estimates and assumptions, including interest rates used to discount certain liabilities, rates of return on assets set aside to fund these plans, rates of compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and anticipated future health care costs. These estimates and assumptions are based on the Companys historical experience combined with managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Management also uses third party actuaries to assist in measuring the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans. If management used different estimates and assumptions regarding these plans, the funded status of the plans could vary significantly, and the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Income Taxes The Company frequently faces challenges from domestic and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company records reserves for estimates of potential additional tax owed by the Company. Deferred tax assets represent items to be used as tax deductions or credits in future tax returns, and the related tax benefit has already been recognized in the Companys income statement. Realization of certain deferred tax assets reflects the Companys tax planning strategies. Valuation allowances related to these deferred tax assets have been established to the extent the realization of the tax benefit is not probable. Based on managements evaluation of the Companys tax position, it is believed the amounts related to these tax exposures are appropriately accrued. To the extent the Company were to favorably resolve matters for which accruals have been established or be required to pay amounts in excess of the aforementioned reserves, the Companys effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be impacted. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and affiliated corporate joint ventures accounted for on the equity method are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by unpredictable factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned unpredictable factors, therefore, may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and profitability of the Companys asset base in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its factories. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment, technology, and companies related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. The Company evaluates goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives for impairment annually. Assets are written down after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these assets, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Valuation of Marketable Securities and Investments in Affiliates The Company classifies the majority of its marketable securities as available for sale and carries these securities at fair value. Investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings and are adjusted, where appropriate, for amortizable basis differences between the investment balance and the underlying net assets of the investee. For publicly traded securities, the fair value of the Companys investments is readily available based on quoted market prices. For non publicly traded securities, managements assessment of fair value is based on valuation methodologies including discounted cash flows and estimates of sales proceeds. In the event of a decline in fair value of an investment below carrying value, management may be required to determine if the decline in fair value is other than temporary. In evaluating the nature of a decline in the fair value of an investment, management considers the market conditions, trends of earnings, discounted cash flows, trading volumes, and other key measures of the investment as well as the Companys ability and intent to hold the investment. When such a decline in value is deemed to be other than temporary, an impairment loss is recognized in the current period operating results to the extent of the decline. See Notes 3 and 5 to the Companys consolidated financial statements for information regarding the Companys marketable securities and investments in affiliates. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these marketable securities, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in: commodity market prices as they relate to the Companys net commodity position, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and price of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to unpredictable factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. To reduce price risk caused by market fluctuations, the Company generally follows a policy of using exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts to minimize its net position of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories and forward cash purchase and sales contracts. The Company will also use exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the volatility of the relationship between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contracts defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company from time to time enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. A sensitivity analysis has been prepared to estimate the Companys exposure to market risk of its daily net commodity position. The Companys daily net commodity position consists of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, related purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts, including those contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements. The fair value of such daily net commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing each net position at quoted futures prices. Market risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in such prices. Actual results may differ. 2008 2007 Long/(Short) Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest position $ 1,260 $ 126 $ 703 $ 70 Lowest position (915 ) (92 ) (565 ) (57 ) Average position 251 25 180 18 The change in fair value of the average position for 2008 compared to 2007 was principally a result of increases in commodity prices and, to a lesser extent, quantities underlying the daily net commodity position. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) Currencies In order to reduce the risk of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, except for amounts permanently invested as described below, the Company follows a policy of entering into currency exchange forward contracts to mitigate its foreign currency risk related to transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currencies applicable to each of its various entities. The instruments used are forward contracts, swaps with banks, and exchange traded futures contracts. The changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $7.0 billion at June 30, 2008, and $5.4 billion at June 30, 2007. This increase is due to an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and appreciation of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar. The potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $695 million and $543 million for 2008 and 2007, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical .5% decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2008 2007 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 7,789 $ 4,862 Excess of fair value over carrying value 99 110 Market risk 308 232 The increase in fair value of long term debt in 2008 resulted principally from the Companys issuance of approximately $3.1 billion in long term debt in 2008. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $224 million to $1.4 billion primarily due to higher employee related costs and higher outside service costs, including $44 million related to an organizational realignment and reorganization of the companys European headquarters, and increased $37 million due to the impact of currency rate fluctuations. Other income net decreased $911 million primarily due to gains totaling $1.0 billion on business disposals recorded in 2007 including $440 million related to the Wilmar gain, $357 million realized securities gain from sales of the Companys equity securities of Tyson Foods, Inc. and Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc., a gain of $153 million from the sale of the Companys interest in Agricore United, and a $53 million gain from the sale of the Companys Arkady food ingredient business. Equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates increased $121 million in 2008, primarily related to improved operating results of the Companys investments in U.S. grain export, Asian oilseeds and peanut processing ventures. Other income net also reflects $38 million in gains on sales of securities in 2008, $21 million in gains on disposals of long lived assets in 2008, an increase from 2007 to 2008 of $11 million in charges related to abandonment and write down of long lived assets, and a charge of $46 million related to the repurchase of $400 million of the Companys outstanding debentures in 2007. Operating profit by segment is as follows: 2008 2007 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing & Origination $ 727 $ 414 $ 313 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel & Other 181 202 (21 ) Asia 132 523 (391 ) Total Oilseeds Processing 1,040 1,139 (99 ) Corn Processing Sweeteners & Starches 529 509 20 Bioproducts 432 596 (164 ) Total Corn Processing 961 1,105 (144 ) Agricultural Services Merchandising & Handling 873 382 491 Transportation 144 156 (12 ) Total Agricultural Services 1,017 538 479 Other Wheat, Cocoa, & Malt 217 209 8 Financial 206 170 36 Total Other 423 379 44 Total Segment Operating Profit 3,441 3,161 280 Corporate (817 ) (7 ) (810 ) Earnings Before Income Taxes $ 2,624 $ 3,154 $ (530 ) Oilseeds Processing operating profit decreased 9% to $1.0 billion. Excluding the $440 million Wilmar gain reflected in Asia results in 2007, Oilseeds Processing operating profit increased 49%, primarily due to strong global demand for protein meal, vegetable oil, and fertilizer. Crushing and Origination operating profits increased 76% to $727 million due principally to improved crushing margins in North and South America and improved fertilizer results in South America. Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel and Other operating profits decreased 10% to $181 million due principally to decreased biodiesel margins in Europe and asset impairment charges of $28 million in 2008, partially offset by improved global refining margins. 2007 operating profit for Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel and Other includes a $14 million gain on a business disposal. Excluding the Wilmar gain, Asia operating profits increased 59% to $132 million, principally reflecting the Companys share of improved operating profits of Wilmar International Limited. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Corn Processing operating profits decreased 13% to $961 million, primarily due to higher net corn costs. Sweeteners and Starches operating profits of $529 were relatively unchanged as higher average selling prices were offset by higher net corn costs and increased manufacturing costs. Manufacturing cost increases reflect higher energy costs, higher repair and maintenance expenses, and higher costs for chemicals used in the manufacturing process. Bioproducts operating profits decreased 28% to $432 million primarily due to higher net corn costs, higher manufacturing expenses, and decreased average ethanol selling prices, partially offset by higher sales volumes for ethanol and, to a lesser extent, higher average lysine selling prices and higher lysine sales volumes. Agricultural Services operating profits increased 89% to $1.0 billion. 2007 operating profits in Merchandising and Handling include a $153 million gain on the sale of the Companys interest in Agricore United. Excluding this gain, Merchandising and Handling operating profits increased 281% to $873 million. This increase was primarily due to enhanced merchandising and handling margins caused by volatile global grain and freight markets, favorable risk management results, and to a lesser extent, increased sales volumes. Transportation operating profits decreased 8% to $144 million primarily due to increased fuel costs. Other operating profits increased 12% to $423 million. Wheat, Cocoa and Malt operating profits increased 4% to $217 million. 2007 operating profits for Wheat included a gain of $39 million from the sale of the Companys Arkady food ingredient business. Excluding the Arkady gain, Wheat, Cocoa and Malt operating profits improved 28%, primarily due to improved wheat and malt margins reflecting increased demand, partially offset by decreased cocoa processing margins reflecting higher raw material and operating costs and competitive pressures experienced in the North American chocolate market. Financial operating profits improved 21% to $206 million primarily due to improvements in the Companys futures commission merchant business. Corporate expense increased $810 million to $817 million, primarily due to a $362 million increase in the charge related to the effects of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations, a $371 million decrease in realized securities gains primarily reflecting the $357 million gain recorded in 2007 from sales of the Companys equity securities of Tyson Foods, Inc. and Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc., a $51 million increase in corporate expenses due principally to reorganization and realignment costs, partially offset by a charge of $46 million recorded in 2007 related to the repurchase of $400 million of the Companys outstanding debentures. Income taxes decreased primarily due to lower pretax earnings. The Companys effective tax rate during 2008 of 31.3% was comparable to the 2007 rate of 31.5%. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) 2007 Compared to 2006 As an agricultural based commodity business, the Company is subject to a variety of market factors which affect the Companys operating results. Strong biodiesel demand in Europe continued to create increased vegetable oil demand and positively impacted rapeseed crushing margins in Europe. Abundant oilseed supplies, improved vegetable oil values, and strong protein meal demand have positively impacted oilseed crushing margins in North America. Increased ethanol contracted selling prices, continuing strong ethanol demand, and solid demand for sweetener and starch products improved corn processing results. These increases in corn processing results were partially offset by higher net corn costs. Global grain merchandising opportunities resulting from regional production imbalances also improved operating results. North American river transportation operations were favorably impacted by strong demand for river transportation services which increased barge freight rates. Increasing commodity price levels resulted in larger LIFO inventory valuation reserves. Net earnings increased due principally to improved operating results in all of the Companys operating segments. Earnings before income taxes for 2007 include a gain of $440 million related to the exchange of the Companys interests in certain Asian joint ventures for shares of Wilmar International Limited (the Wilmar Gain), a $357 million realized securities gain from sales of the Companys equity securities of Tyson Foods, Inc. and Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc., a gain of $153 million from the sale of the Companys interest in Agricore United and a $53 million gain from the sale of the Companys Arkady food ingredient business. Earnings before income taxes for 2007 also include charges of $207 million from the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations, $46 million related to the repurchase of $400 million of the Companys outstanding debentures, and $21 million related to abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Net earnings for 2006 include a $36 million reduction in income tax expense related to the recognition of federal and state income tax credits and adjustments resulting from the reconciliation of filed tax returns to the previously estimated tax provision. Earnings before income taxes for 2006 include charges of $15 million resulting from the Companys adoption of Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation No. 47, Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations, an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 143 (FIN 47), $71 million related to abandonment and write down of long lived assets, $9 million representing the Companys share of a charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets reported by an unconsolidated affiliate of the Company, and $22 million associated with the closure of a citric acid plant and exiting the European animal feed business. Earnings before income taxes for 2006 also include credits of $12 million from the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations, $17 million from the sale of long lived assets, $46 million related to Brazilian transactional tax credits, and $40 million related to realized securities gains. Analysis of Statements of Earnings Net sales and other operating income increased 20% to $44.0 billion due primarily to increased selling prices of agricultural commodities, oilseed and corn processing products and, to a lesser extent, increased sales volumes of agricultural commodities and oilseed processing products. In addition, net sales and other operating income increased $916 million, or 3%, due to currency exchange rate fluctuations. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Net sales and other operating income by segment are as follows: 2007 2006 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing & Origination $ 8,036 $ 7,048 $ 988 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel & Other 5,758 4,726 1,032 Asia 149 119 30 Total Oilseeds Processing 13,943 11,893 2,050 Corn Processing Sweeteners & Starches 2,761 2,529 232 Bioproducts 3,064 2,727 337 Total Corn Processing 5,825 5,256 569 Agricultural Services Merchandising & Handling 20,222 15,954 4,268 Transportation 197 201 (4 ) Total Agricultural Services 20,419 16,155 4,264 Other Wheat, Cocoa, & Malt 3,738 3,217 521 Financial 93 75 18 Total Other 3,831 3,292 539 Total $ 44,018 $ 36,596 $ 7,422 Oilseeds Processing sales increased 17% to $13.9 billion due principally to increased average selling prices of vegetable oil and increased sales volumes of vegetable oil and biodiesel. Vegetable oil selling prices and volumes improved as the markets anticipated new demand from the developing United States biodiesel industry. Biodiesel sales volumes increased due to additional production capacity. Corn Processing sales increased 11% to $5.8 billion due principally to increased sales of Bioproducts and, to a lesser extent, increased sales of Sweeteners and Starches. Bioproducts sales increased primarily due to higher average selling prices of ethanol, partially offset by lower sales volumes. Ethanol average selling prices increased primarily due to higher gasoline prices. Ethanol sales volumes decreased as 2006 sales volumes exceeded production due to the release of inventories built up in anticipation of refiners replacing MTBE with ethanol. Sweeteners and Starches sales increased primarily due to higher average selling prices resulting from good demand for sweetener and starch products. Agricultural Services sales increased 26% to $20.4 billion due principally to increased agricultural commodity prices and increased sales volumes. The increase in commodity prices was primarily due to higher average market prices of corn in North America which had increased 60% from the prior year. Increased sales volumes of global grain merchandising activities also contributed to the increase in Agricultural Services sales. Other sales increased 16% to $3.8 billion primarily due to higher average selling prices of wheat flour products and, to a lesser extent, increased sales volumes and higher average selling prices of cocoa products. Cost of products sold increased 21% to $40.8 billion primarily due to higher average costs of agricultural commodities and increased sales volumes. Manufacturing costs for 2007 and 2006 include a $21 million and $62 million charge, respectively, for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. In addition, cost of products sold increased $874 million, or 3%, due to currency exchange rate fluctuations. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Selling, general, and administrative expenses of $1.2 billion were comparable to 2006 and included $25 million of currency exchange rate increases. Excluding the impact of currency exchange rate increases, selling, general and administrative expenses decreased $23 million due principally to 2006 selling, general and administrative expenses including $20 million of severance costs associated with the closure of a citric acid plant. During 2007 and 2006, the Company issued option grants and restricted stock awards to officers and key employees pursuant to the Companys Long term Management Incentive Program. Certain officers and key employees of the Company receiving option grants and restricted stock awards were eligible for retirement. Compensation expense related to option grants and restricted stock awards issued to these retirement eligible employees is recognized in earnings on the date of grant. Selling, general, and administrative expense for 2007 and 2006 includes compensation expense related to option grants and restricted stock awards granted to retirement eligible employees of $30 million and $31 million, respectively. Other income net increased $1.0 billion primarily due to the $440 million Wilmar Gain, a $357 million gain on the sale of the Companys equity securities of Tyson Foods, Inc. and Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc., a $153 million gain on the sale of the Companys interest in Agricore United, and a $53 million gain on the sale of the Companys Arkady food ingredient business. Other income net also includes a $46 million charge related to the repurchase of $400 million of the Companys outstanding debentures in 2007. Excluding these items, other income net increased $73 million primarily due to a $120 million increase in equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates, and a $53 million increase in investment income, partially offset by a $69 million increase in interest expense and a $27 million reduction in gains on sales of long lived assets. The increase in equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates was primarily due to higher valuations of the Companys private equity fund investments and improved operating results of the Companys Asian oilseed ventures. Interest expense and investment income increased primarily due to increased average borrowing and investment levels. Operating profit by segment is as follows: 2007 2006 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing & Origination $ 414 $ 376 $ 38 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel & Other 202 140 62 Asia 523 53 470 Total Oilseeds Processing 1,139 569 570 Corn Processing Sweeteners & Starches 509 458 51 Bioproducts 596 443 153 Total Corn Processing 1,105 901 204 Agricultural Services Merchandising & Handling 382 94 288 Transportation 156 143 13 Total Agricultural Services 538 237 301 Other Wheat, Cocoa, & Malt 209 228 (19 ) Financial 170 126 44 Total Other 379 354 25 Total Segment Operating Profit 3,161 2,061 1,100 Corporate (7 ) (206 ) 199 Earnings Before Income Taxes $ 3,154 $ 1,855 $ 1,299 Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Oilseeds Processing operating profits increased $570 million to $1.1 billion due principally to the $440 million Wilmar Gain and improved market conditions in all geographic regions. North American processing results improved due principally to abundant oilseed supplies in the United States and good demand for vegetable oil and soybean meal. Vegetable oil values improved as the markets anticipated new demand from the developing United States biodiesel industry. North American processing results were also favorably impacted by lower plant operating costs resulting from improved capacity utilization. Asian joint venture results improved due to improved palm processing operating results partially offset by decreased soy crushing operating results. European processing results improved due principally to abundant oilseed supplies in Europe and strong demand for vegetable oil. The strong demand for vegetable oil is the result of strong biodiesel demand. These increases were partially offset by decreased biodiesel operating profits resulting from higher vegetable oil prices, increased market production capacity, and lower diesel fuel prices. South American processing results declined due principally to the $27 million credit for Brazilian transactional taxes in 2006. Excluding the impact of the credit for Brazilian transactional taxes, South American processing results improved due principally to increased fertilizer margins. The improvement in fertilizer margins was primarily due to higher average sales prices due to improved fertilizer demand combined with stable raw material costs. Operating profits for 2007 include a $6 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Operating profits for 2006 include a $14 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets and a $6 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47. Corn Processing operating profits increased $204 million to $1.1 billion due principally to higher average selling prices and lower energy costs, partially offset by lower ethanol sales volumes and higher net corn costs. Net corn costs increased approximately 60% during 2007 due to significant anticipated demand increases for corn resulting primarily from increasing corn derived ethanol industry capacity. Agricultural commodity market concerns regarding the expected decline in the ending 2006 corn crop carryover also contributed to the increase in corn costs. Sweeteners and Starches operating profits increased $51 million primarily due to higher average sales prices and lower energy costs. Sales prices increased due principally to good demand for sweetener and starch products. These increases were partially offset by increased net corn costs. Sweeteners and Starches operating profits for 2006 include a $5 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47. Bioproducts operating profits increased $153 million primarily due to higher ethanol average selling prices and lower energy costs, partially offset by increased net corn costs and lower ethanol sales volumes. Ethanol average sales prices increased due principally to strong demand from gasoline refiners and higher gasoline prices. Ethanol sales volumes decreased as 2006 sales volumes exceeded production due to the release of inventories built up in anticipation of refiners replacing MTBE with ethanol. Bioproducts operating results for 2007 include a $1 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Bioproducts operating results for 2006 include a $6 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets, a $2 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47, and $6 million of costs related to the closure of a citric acid plant. Agricultural Services operating profits increased $301 million to $538 million due principally to a $153 million gain from the sale of the Companys interest in Agricore United, a Canadian business which specialized in crop input, crop protection services, and grain marketing and merchandising. Excluding the Agricore United gain, Agricultural Services operating profits increased $148 million to $385 million due principally to improved global grain merchandising operating results and, to a lesser extent, improved transportation and North American origination operating results. Global grain merchandising results improved as regional production imbalances allowed the Company to capitalize on merchandising opportunities. North American river transportation operating results increased primarily due to increased barge freight rates created by strong demand for barge capacity. North American origination operating results improved due to good export demand for agricultural commodities and higher ocean freight rates. Agricultural Services operating profits for 2007 include a $12 million trade disruption insurance recovery related to Hurricane Katrina. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Other operating profits increased $25 million to $379 million. Wheat, Cocoa, and Malt operating profits decreased $19 million. Wheat operating profits include a $39 million gain on the sale of the Companys Arkady food ingredient business in 2007 and a $17 million gain from the sale of long lived assets in 2006. Excluding the effect of these one time gains, Wheat, Cocoa, and Malt operating profits declined $41 million primarily due to cocoa operating results declining from prior year levels and to a lesser extent, weaker equity earnings from our investment in Gruma S.A. partially offset by improved operating results of the Companys wheat flour processing operations. Cocoa processing operating results declined primarily due to increased industry production capacity which caused downward pressure on cocoa processing margins. Financial operating profits increased $44 million due principally to increased valuations of the Companys private equity fund investments and higher operating results of the Companys futures commission merchant business, partially offset by lower operating results of the Companys captive insurance operations. The results of the Companys captive insurance operations for 2007 include a $12 million charge related to a Hurricane Katrina trade disruption insurance settlement. Corporate expense decreased $199 million to $7 million due principally to a $345 million increase in realized securities gains principally resulting from sales of the Companys equity securities of Tyson Foods, Inc. and Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc. and a $103 million reduction in unallocated interest expense due principally to higher levels of invested funds and higher interest rates. These decreases were partially offset by a $207 million charge, compared to a $12 million credit in the prior year, related to the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations and a $46 million charge related to the repurchase of $400 million of the Companys outstanding debentures. Income taxes increased due principally to higher pretax earnings and the absence of a $36 million income tax credit in 2006 related to the recognition of federal and state income tax credits and adjustments resulting from the reconciliation of filed tax returns to the previously estimated tax provision. The Companys effective tax rate during 2007 was 31.5% and, after excluding the effect of the 2006 $36 million tax credit, was 31.2% for the prior year. The increase in the Companys effective tax rate was primarily due to changes in the geographic mix of pretax earnings. Liquidity and Capital Resources A Company objective is to have sufficient liquidity, balance sheet strength, and financial flexibility to fund the operating and capital requirements of a capital intensive agricultural based commodity business. At June 30, 2008, the Company had $1.3 billion of cash, cash equivalents, and short term marketable securities and a current ratio, defined as current assets divided by current liabilities, of 1.7 to 1. Included in working capital is $7.8 billion of readily marketable commodity inventories. Cash used in operating activities totaled $3.2 billion for the year compared to $303 million cash generated from operations last year. This change was primarily due to an increase in working capital requirements principally related to increased market prices and, to a lesser extent, increased quantities of agricultural commodity inventories, principally readily marketable commodity inventories, and increased receivables. Cash used in investing activities increased $1.5 billion for the year to $1.9 billion primarily due to increased capital expenditures and decreased proceeds from sales of businesses including the sale of the Companys equity interests in Tyson Foods, Inc., Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc. and Agricore United in 2007. Cash generated by financing activities was $5.2 billion compared to cash used in financing activities of $398 million last year. Net long term borrowings increased primarily as a result of the issuance in 2008 of approximately $3.1 billion of additional long term debt, including $500 million of debentures issued in December 2007, $700 million of notes issued in March 2008, and $1.75 billion of debentures in June 2008, compared to $1.15 billion of convertible senior notes issued in February 2007, partially offset by $480 million of reduced debt payments principally related to the Companys retirement of $400 million of debentures in 2007. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Capital resources were strengthened in 2008 as shown by the increase in the Companys net worth from $11.3 billion to $13.5 billion. The Companys ratio of long term debt to total capital (the sum of the Companys long term debt and shareholders equity) was 36% at June 30, 2008, and 30% at June 30, 2007. This ratio is a measure of the Companys long term liquidity and is an indicator of financial flexibility. The Company currently has $7.4 billion of commercial paper and commercial bank lines available to meet seasonal cash requirements of which $5.2 billion are committed and $2.2 billion are uncommitted. At June 30, 2008, the Company had $3.1 billion of short term debt outstanding. Standard & Poors, Moodys, and Fitch rate the Companys commercial paper as A 1, P 1, and F1, respectively, and rate the Companys long term debt as A, A2, and A, respectively. In addition to the cash flow generated from operations, the Company has access to equity and debt capital through numerous alternatives from public and private sources in domestic and international markets. The Company has outstanding $1.15 billion principal amount of convertible senior notes. As of June 30, 2008, none of the conditions permitting conversion of the notes had been satisfied. As of June 30, 2008, the market price of the Companys common stock was not greater than the exercise price of the purchased call options or warrants related to the convertible senior notes. In June 2008, the Company issued $1.75 billion of debentures as a component of Equity Units. The Equity Units are a combination of (a) debt and (b) forward contracts for the holder to purchase the Companys common stock. The purchase contracts obligate the holder to purchase from the Company, no later than June 1, 2011, for a price of $50 in cash, a certain number of shares, ranging from 1.0453 shares to 1.2544 shares, of the Companys common stock, based on a formula established in the contract. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements In the normal course of business, the Company enters into contracts and commitments which obligate the Company to make payments in the future. The following table sets forth the Companys significant future obligations by time period. Purchases include commodity based contracts entered into in the normal course of business, which are further described in Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, energy related purchase contracts entered into in the normal course of business, and other purchase obligations related to the Companys normal business activities. Where applicable, information included in the Companys consolidated financial statements and notes is cross referenced in this table. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Payments Due by Period Contractual Note Less than 1 3 3 5 More than Obligations Reference Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years (In millions) Purchases Inventories $ 24,230 $ 22,813 $ 1,200 $ 174 $ 43 Energy 952 502 302 80 68 Other 148 58 60 18 12 Total purchases 25,330 23,373 1,562 272 123 Short term debt Note 7 3,123 3,123 Long term debt Note 7 7,993 232 358 380 7,023 Estimated interest payments 9,639 511 808 758 7,562 Operating leases Note 12 1,364 403 402 239 320 Estimated pension and other postretirement plan contributions Note 13 1,217 90 204 229 694 Total $ 48,666 $ 27,732 $ 3,334 $ 1,878 $ 15,722 At June 30, 2008, the Company estimates it will spend approximately $2.5 billion over the next five years to complete currently approved capital projects and acquisitions which is not included in the table above. The Company is a limited partner in various private equity funds which invest primarily in emerging markets. At June 30, 2008, the Companys carrying value of these limited partnership investments was $129 million. The Company has future capital commitments related to these partnerships of $137 million and expects the majority of these additional capital commitments, if called for, to be funded by cash flows generated by the partnerships. The Company also has outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds of $500 million at June 30, 2008. In addition, the Company has entered into agreements, primarily debt guarantee agreements related to equity method investees, which could obligate the Company to make future payments. The Companys liability under these agreements arises only if the primary entity fails to perform its contractual obligation. The Company has collateral for a portion of these contingent obligations. At June 30, 2008, these contingent obligations totaled approximately $135 million. Amounts outstanding for the primary entity under these contingent obligations were $62 million at June 30, 2008. Critical Accounting Policies The process of preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the carrying values of the Companys assets and liabilities as well as the recognition of revenues and expenses. These estimates and judgments are based on the Companys historical experience and managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Certain of the Companys accounting policies are considered critical, as these policies are important to the depiction of the Companys financial statements and require significant or complex judgment by management. Management has discussed with the Companys Audit Committee the development, selection, disclosure, and application of these critical accounting policies. Following are the accounting policies management considers critical to the Companys financial statements. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Inventories and Derivatives Certain of the Companys merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, forward fixed price purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts are valued at estimated market values. These merchandisable agricultural commodities are freely traded, have quoted market prices, and may be sold without significant additional processing. Management estimates market value based on exchange quoted prices, adjusted for differences in local markets. Changes in the market values of these inventories and contracts are recognized in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. If management used different methods or factors to estimate market value, amounts reported as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. Additionally, if market conditions change subsequent to year end, amounts reported in future periods as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. The Company, from time to time, uses derivative contracts designated as cash flow hedges to fix the purchase price of anticipated volumes of commodities to be purchased and processed in a future month, to fix the purchase price of the Companys anticipated natural gas requirements for certain production facilities, and to fix the sales price of anticipated volumes of ethanol. The change in the market value of such derivative contracts has historically been, and is expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. If it is determined that the derivative instruments used are no longer effective at offsetting changes in the price of the hedged item, then the changes in the market value of these exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts would be recorded in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. Employee Benefit Plans The Company provides substantially all domestic employees and employees at certain international subsidiaries with pension benefits. The Company also provides substantially all domestic salaried employees with postretirement health care and life insurance benefits. In order to measure the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans, management makes several estimates and assumptions, including interest rates used to discount certain liabilities, rates of return on assets set aside to fund these plans, rates of compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and anticipated future health care costs. These estimates and assumptions are based on the Companys historical experience combined with managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Management also uses third party actuaries to assist in measuring the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans. If management used different estimates and assumptions regarding these plans, the funded status of the plans could vary significantly, and the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Income Taxes The Company frequently faces challenges from domestic and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company records reserves for estimates of potential additional tax owed by the Company. Deferred tax assets represent items to be used as tax deductions or credits in future tax returns, and the related tax benefit has already been recognized in the Companys income statement. Realization of certain deferred tax assets reflects the Companys tax planning strategies. Valuation allowances related to these deferred tax assets have been established to the extent the realization of the tax benefit is not probable. Based on managements evaluation of the Companys tax position, it is believed the amounts related to these tax exposures are appropriately accrued. To the extent the Company were to favorably resolve matters for which accruals have been established or be required to pay amounts in excess of the aforementioned reserves, the Companys effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be impacted. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and affiliated corporate joint ventures accounted for on the equity method are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by unpredictable factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned unpredictable factors, therefore, may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and profitability of the Companys asset base in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its factories. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment, technology, and companies related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. The Company evaluates goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives for impairment annually. Assets are written down after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these assets, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Valuation of Marketable Securities and Investments in Affiliates The Company classifies the majority of its marketable securities as available for sale and carries these securities at fair value. Investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings and are adjusted, where appropriate, for amortizable basis differences between the investment balance and the underlying net assets of the investee. For publicly traded securities, the fair value of the Companys investments is readily available based on quoted market prices. For non publicly traded securities, managements assessment of fair value is based on valuation methodologies including discounted cash flows and estimates of sales proceeds. In the event of a decline in fair value of an investment below carrying value, management may be required to determine if the decline in fair value is other than temporary. In evaluating the nature of a decline in the fair value of an investment, management considers the market conditions, trends of earnings, discounted cash flows, trading volumes, and other key measures of the investment as well as the Companys ability and intent to hold the investment. When such a decline in value is deemed to be other than temporary, an impairment loss is recognized in the current period operating results to the extent of the decline. See Notes 3 and 5 to the Companys consolidated financial statements for information regarding the Companys marketable securities and investments in affiliates. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these marketable securities, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in: commodity market prices as they relate to the Companys net commodity position, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and price of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to unpredictable factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. To reduce price risk caused by market fluctuations, the Company generally follows a policy of using exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts to minimize its net position of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories and forward cash purchase and sales contracts. The Company will also use exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the volatility of the relationship between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contracts defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company from time to time enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. A sensitivity analysis has been prepared to estimate the Companys exposure to market risk of its daily net commodity position. The Companys daily net commodity position consists of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, related purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts, including those contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements. The fair value of such daily net commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing each net position at quoted futures prices. Market risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in such prices. Actual results may differ. 2008 2007 Long/(Short) Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest position $ 1,260 $ 126 $ 703 $ 70 Lowest position (915 ) (92 ) (565 ) (57 ) Average position 251 25 180 18 The change in fair value of the average position for 2008 compared to 2007 was principally a result of increases in commodity prices and, to a lesser extent, quantities underlying the daily net commodity position. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) Currencies In order to reduce the risk of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, except for amounts permanently invested as described below, the Company follows a policy of entering into currency exchange forward contracts to mitigate its foreign currency risk related to transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currencies applicable to each of its various entities. The instruments used are forward contracts, swaps with banks, and exchange traded futures contracts. The changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $7.0 billion at June 30, 2008, and $5.4 billion at June 30, 2007. This increase is due to an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and appreciation of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar. The potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $695 million and $543 million for 2008 and 2007, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical .5% decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2008 2007 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 7,789 $ 4,862 Excess of fair value over carrying value 99 110 Market risk 308 232 The increase in fair value of long term debt in 2008 resulted principally from the Companys issuance of approximately $3.1 billion in long term debt in 2008. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Corn Processing operating profits decreased 13% to $961 million, primarily due to higher net corn costs. Sweeteners and Starches operating profits of $529 were relatively unchanged as higher average selling prices were offset by higher net corn costs and increased manufacturing costs. Manufacturing cost increases reflect higher energy costs, higher repair and maintenance expenses, and higher costs for chemicals used in the manufacturing process. Bioproducts operating profits decreased 28% to $432 million primarily due to higher net corn costs, higher manufacturing expenses, and decreased average ethanol selling prices, partially offset by higher sales volumes for ethanol and, to a lesser extent, higher average lysine selling prices and higher lysine sales volumes. Agricultural Services operating profits increased 89% to $1.0 billion. 2007 operating profits in Merchandising and Handling include a $153 million gain on the sale of the Companys interest in Agricore United. Excluding this gain, Merchandising and Handling operating profits increased 281% to $873 million. This increase was primarily due to enhanced merchandising and handling margins caused by volatile global grain and freight markets, favorable risk management results, and to a lesser extent, increased sales volumes. Transportation operating profits decreased 8% to $144 million primarily due to increased fuel costs. Other operating profits increased 12% to $423 million. Wheat, Cocoa and Malt operating profits increased 4% to $217 million. 2007 operating profits for Wheat included a gain of $39 million from the sale of the Companys Arkady food ingredient business. Excluding the Arkady gain, Wheat, Cocoa and Malt operating profits improved 28%, primarily due to improved wheat and malt margins reflecting increased demand, partially offset by decreased cocoa processing margins reflecting higher raw material and operating costs and competitive pressures experienced in the North American chocolate market. Financial operating profits improved 21% to $206 million primarily due to improvements in the Companys futures commission merchant business. Corporate expense increased $810 million to $817 million, primarily due to a $362 million increase in the charge related to the effects of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations, a $371 million decrease in realized securities gains primarily reflecting the $357 million gain recorded in 2007 from sales of the Companys equity securities of Tyson Foods, Inc. and Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc., a $51 million increase in corporate expenses due principally to reorganization and realignment costs, partially offset by a charge of $46 million recorded in 2007 related to the repurchase of $400 million of the Companys outstanding debentures. Income taxes decreased primarily due to lower pretax earnings. The Companys effective tax rate during 2008 of 31.3% was comparable to the 2007 rate of 31.5%. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) 2007 Compared to 2006 As an agricultural based commodity business, the Company is subject to a variety of market factors which affect the Companys operating results. Strong biodiesel demand in Europe continued to create increased vegetable oil demand and positively impacted rapeseed crushing margins in Europe. Abundant oilseed supplies, improved vegetable oil values, and strong protein meal demand have positively impacted oilseed crushing margins in North America. Increased ethanol contracted selling prices, continuing strong ethanol demand, and solid demand for sweetener and starch products improved corn processing results. These increases in corn processing results were partially offset by higher net corn costs. Global grain merchandising opportunities resulting from regional production imbalances also improved operating results. North American river transportation operations were favorably impacted by strong demand for river transportation services which increased barge freight rates. Increasing commodity price levels resulted in larger LIFO inventory valuation reserves. Net earnings increased due principally to improved operating results in all of the Companys operating segments. Earnings before income taxes for 2007 include a gain of $440 million related to the exchange of the Companys interests in certain Asian joint ventures for shares of Wilmar International Limited (the Wilmar Gain), a $357 million realized securities gain from sales of the Companys equity securities of Tyson Foods, Inc. and Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc., a gain of $153 million from the sale of the Companys interest in Agricore United and a $53 million gain from the sale of the Companys Arkady food ingredient business. Earnings before income taxes for 2007 also include charges of $207 million from the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations, $46 million related to the repurchase of $400 million of the Companys outstanding debentures, and $21 million related to abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Net earnings for 2006 include a $36 million reduction in income tax expense related to the recognition of federal and state income tax credits and adjustments resulting from the reconciliation of filed tax returns to the previously estimated tax provision. Earnings before income taxes for 2006 include charges of $15 million resulting from the Companys adoption of Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation No. 47, Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations, an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 143 (FIN 47), $71 million related to abandonment and write down of long lived assets, $9 million representing the Companys share of a charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets reported by an unconsolidated affiliate of the Company, and $22 million associated with the closure of a citric acid plant and exiting the European animal feed business. Earnings before income taxes for 2006 also include credits of $12 million from the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations, $17 million from the sale of long lived assets, $46 million related to Brazilian transactional tax credits, and $40 million related to realized securities gains. Analysis of Statements of Earnings Net sales and other operating income increased 20% to $44.0 billion due primarily to increased selling prices of agricultural commodities, oilseed and corn processing products and, to a lesser extent, increased sales volumes of agricultural commodities and oilseed processing products. In addition, net sales and other operating income increased $916 million, or 3%, due to currency exchange rate fluctuations. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Net sales and other operating income by segment are as follows: 2007 2006 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing & Origination $ 8,036 $ 7,048 $ 988 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel & Other 5,758 4,726 1,032 Asia 149 119 30 Total Oilseeds Processing 13,943 11,893 2,050 Corn Processing Sweeteners & Starches 2,761 2,529 232 Bioproducts 3,064 2,727 337 Total Corn Processing 5,825 5,256 569 Agricultural Services Merchandising & Handling 20,222 15,954 4,268 Transportation 197 201 (4 ) Total Agricultural Services 20,419 16,155 4,264 Other Wheat, Cocoa, & Malt 3,738 3,217 521 Financial 93 75 18 Total Other 3,831 3,292 539 Total $ 44,018 $ 36,596 $ 7,422 Oilseeds Processing sales increased 17% to $13.9 billion due principally to increased average selling prices of vegetable oil and increased sales volumes of vegetable oil and biodiesel. Vegetable oil selling prices and volumes improved as the markets anticipated new demand from the developing United States biodiesel industry. Biodiesel sales volumes increased due to additional production capacity. Corn Processing sales increased 11% to $5.8 billion due principally to increased sales of Bioproducts and, to a lesser extent, increased sales of Sweeteners and Starches. Bioproducts sales increased primarily due to higher average selling prices of ethanol, partially offset by lower sales volumes. Ethanol average selling prices increased primarily due to higher gasoline prices. Ethanol sales volumes decreased as 2006 sales volumes exceeded production due to the release of inventories built up in anticipation of refiners replacing MTBE with ethanol. Sweeteners and Starches sales increased primarily due to higher average selling prices resulting from good demand for sweetener and starch products. Agricultural Services sales increased 26% to $20.4 billion due principally to increased agricultural commodity prices and increased sales volumes. The increase in commodity prices was primarily due to higher average market prices of corn in North America which had increased 60% from the prior year. Increased sales volumes of global grain merchandising activities also contributed to the increase in Agricultural Services sales. Other sales increased 16% to $3.8 billion primarily due to higher average selling prices of wheat flour products and, to a lesser extent, increased sales volumes and higher average selling prices of cocoa products. Cost of products sold increased 21% to $40.8 billion primarily due to higher average costs of agricultural commodities and increased sales volumes. Manufacturing costs for 2007 and 2006 include a $21 million and $62 million charge, respectively, for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. In addition, cost of products sold increased $874 million, or 3%, due to currency exchange rate fluctuations. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Selling, general, and administrative expenses of $1.2 billion were comparable to 2006 and included $25 million of currency exchange rate increases. Excluding the impact of currency exchange rate increases, selling, general and administrative expenses decreased $23 million due principally to 2006 selling, general and administrative expenses including $20 million of severance costs associated with the closure of a citric acid plant. During 2007 and 2006, the Company issued option grants and restricted stock awards to officers and key employees pursuant to the Companys Long term Management Incentive Program. Certain officers and key employees of the Company receiving option grants and restricted stock awards were eligible for retirement. Compensation expense related to option grants and restricted stock awards issued to these retirement eligible employees is recognized in earnings on the date of grant. Selling, general, and administrative expense for 2007 and 2006 includes compensation expense related to option grants and restricted stock awards granted to retirement eligible employees of $30 million and $31 million, respectively. Other income net increased $1.0 billion primarily due to the $440 million Wilmar Gain, a $357 million gain on the sale of the Companys equity securities of Tyson Foods, Inc. and Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc., a $153 million gain on the sale of the Companys interest in Agricore United, and a $53 million gain on the sale of the Companys Arkady food ingredient business. Other income net also includes a $46 million charge related to the repurchase of $400 million of the Companys outstanding debentures in 2007. Excluding these items, other income net increased $73 million primarily due to a $120 million increase in equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates, and a $53 million increase in investment income, partially offset by a $69 million increase in interest expense and a $27 million reduction in gains on sales of long lived assets. The increase in equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates was primarily due to higher valuations of the Companys private equity fund investments and improved operating results of the Companys Asian oilseed ventures. Interest expense and investment income increased primarily due to increased average borrowing and investment levels. Operating profit by segment is as follows: 2007 2006 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing & Origination $ 414 $ 376 $ 38 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel & Other 202 140 62 Asia 523 53 470 Total Oilseeds Processing 1,139 569 570 Corn Processing Sweeteners & Starches 509 458 51 Bioproducts 596 443 153 Total Corn Processing 1,105 901 204 Agricultural Services Merchandising & Handling 382 94 288 Transportation 156 143 13 Total Agricultural Services 538 237 301 Other Wheat, Cocoa, & Malt 209 228 (19 ) Financial 170 126 44 Total Other 379 354 25 Total Segment Operating Profit 3,161 2,061 1,100 Corporate (7 ) (206 ) 199 Earnings Before Income Taxes $ 3,154 $ 1,855 $ 1,299 Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Oilseeds Processing operating profits increased $570 million to $1.1 billion due principally to the $440 million Wilmar Gain and improved market conditions in all geographic regions. North American processing results improved due principally to abundant oilseed supplies in the United States and good demand for vegetable oil and soybean meal. Vegetable oil values improved as the markets anticipated new demand from the developing United States biodiesel industry. North American processing results were also favorably impacted by lower plant operating costs resulting from improved capacity utilization. Asian joint venture results improved due to improved palm processing operating results partially offset by decreased soy crushing operating results. European processing results improved due principally to abundant oilseed supplies in Europe and strong demand for vegetable oil. The strong demand for vegetable oil is the result of strong biodiesel demand. These increases were partially offset by decreased biodiesel operating profits resulting from higher vegetable oil prices, increased market production capacity, and lower diesel fuel prices. South American processing results declined due principally to the $27 million credit for Brazilian transactional taxes in 2006. Excluding the impact of the credit for Brazilian transactional taxes, South American processing results improved due principally to increased fertilizer margins. The improvement in fertilizer margins was primarily due to higher average sales prices due to improved fertilizer demand combined with stable raw material costs. Operating profits for 2007 include a $6 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Operating profits for 2006 include a $14 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets and a $6 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47. Corn Processing operating profits increased $204 million to $1.1 billion due principally to higher average selling prices and lower energy costs, partially offset by lower ethanol sales volumes and higher net corn costs. Net corn costs increased approximately 60% during 2007 due to significant anticipated demand increases for corn resulting primarily from increasing corn derived ethanol industry capacity. Agricultural commodity market concerns regarding the expected decline in the ending 2006 corn crop carryover also contributed to the increase in corn costs. Sweeteners and Starches operating profits increased $51 million primarily due to higher average sales prices and lower energy costs. Sales prices increased due principally to good demand for sweetener and starch products. These increases were partially offset by increased net corn costs. Sweeteners and Starches operating profits for 2006 include a $5 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47. Bioproducts operating profits increased $153 million primarily due to higher ethanol average selling prices and lower energy costs, partially offset by increased net corn costs and lower ethanol sales volumes. Ethanol average sales prices increased due principally to strong demand from gasoline refiners and higher gasoline prices. Ethanol sales volumes decreased as 2006 sales volumes exceeded production due to the release of inventories built up in anticipation of refiners replacing MTBE with ethanol. Bioproducts operating results for 2007 include a $1 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Bioproducts operating results for 2006 include a $6 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets, a $2 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47, and $6 million of costs related to the closure of a citric acid plant. Agricultural Services operating profits increased $301 million to $538 million due principally to a $153 million gain from the sale of the Companys interest in Agricore United, a Canadian business which specialized in crop input, crop protection services, and grain marketing and merchandising. Excluding the Agricore United gain, Agricultural Services operating profits increased $148 million to $385 million due principally to improved global grain merchandising operating results and, to a lesser extent, improved transportation and North American origination operating results. Global grain merchandising results improved as regional production imbalances allowed the Company to capitalize on merchandising opportunities. North American river transportation operating results increased primarily due to increased barge freight rates created by strong demand for barge capacity. North American origination operating results improved due to good export demand for agricultural commodities and higher ocean freight rates. Agricultural Services operating profits for 2007 include a $12 million trade disruption insurance recovery related to Hurricane Katrina. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Other operating profits increased $25 million to $379 million. Wheat, Cocoa, and Malt operating profits decreased $19 million. Wheat operating profits include a $39 million gain on the sale of the Companys Arkady food ingredient business in 2007 and a $17 million gain from the sale of long lived assets in 2006. Excluding the effect of these one time gains, Wheat, Cocoa, and Malt operating profits declined $41 million primarily due to cocoa operating results declining from prior year levels and to a lesser extent, weaker equity earnings from our investment in Gruma S.A. partially offset by improved operating results of the Companys wheat flour processing operations. Cocoa processing operating results declined primarily due to increased industry production capacity which caused downward pressure on cocoa processing margins. Financial operating profits increased $44 million due principally to increased valuations of the Companys private equity fund investments and higher operating results of the Companys futures commission merchant business, partially offset by lower operating results of the Companys captive insurance operations. The results of the Companys captive insurance operations for 2007 include a $12 million charge related to a Hurricane Katrina trade disruption insurance settlement. Corporate expense decreased $199 million to $7 million due principally to a $345 million increase in realized securities gains principally resulting from sales of the Companys equity securities of Tyson Foods, Inc. and Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc. and a $103 million reduction in unallocated interest expense due principally to higher levels of invested funds and higher interest rates. These decreases were partially offset by a $207 million charge, compared to a $12 million credit in the prior year, related to the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations and a $46 million charge related to the repurchase of $400 million of the Companys outstanding debentures. Income taxes increased due principally to higher pretax earnings and the absence of a $36 million income tax credit in 2006 related to the recognition of federal and state income tax credits and adjustments resulting from the reconciliation of filed tax returns to the previously estimated tax provision. The Companys effective tax rate during 2007 was 31.5% and, after excluding the effect of the 2006 $36 million tax credit, was 31.2% for the prior year. The increase in the Companys effective tax rate was primarily due to changes in the geographic mix of pretax earnings. Liquidity and Capital Resources A Company objective is to have sufficient liquidity, balance sheet strength, and financial flexibility to fund the operating and capital requirements of a capital intensive agricultural based commodity business. At June 30, 2008, the Company had $1.3 billion of cash, cash equivalents, and short term marketable securities and a current ratio, defined as current assets divided by current liabilities, of 1.7 to 1. Included in working capital is $7.8 billion of readily marketable commodity inventories. Cash used in operating activities totaled $3.2 billion for the year compared to $303 million cash generated from operations last year. This change was primarily due to an increase in working capital requirements principally related to increased market prices and, to a lesser extent, increased quantities of agricultural commodity inventories, principally readily marketable commodity inventories, and increased receivables. Cash used in investing activities increased $1.5 billion for the year to $1.9 billion primarily due to increased capital expenditures and decreased proceeds from sales of businesses including the sale of the Companys equity interests in Tyson Foods, Inc., Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc. and Agricore United in 2007. Cash generated by financing activities was $5.2 billion compared to cash used in financing activities of $398 million last year. Net long term borrowings increased primarily as a result of the issuance in 2008 of approximately $3.1 billion of additional long term debt, including $500 million of debentures issued in December 2007, $700 million of notes issued in March 2008, and $1.75 billion of debentures in June 2008, compared to $1.15 billion of convertible senior notes issued in February 2007, partially offset by $480 million of reduced debt payments principally related to the Companys retirement of $400 million of debentures in 2007. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Capital resources were strengthened in 2008 as shown by the increase in the Companys net worth from $11.3 billion to $13.5 billion. The Companys ratio of long term debt to total capital (the sum of the Companys long term debt and shareholders equity) was 36% at June 30, 2008, and 30% at June 30, 2007. This ratio is a measure of the Companys long term liquidity and is an indicator of financial flexibility. The Company currently has $7.4 billion of commercial paper and commercial bank lines available to meet seasonal cash requirements of which $5.2 billion are committed and $2.2 billion are uncommitted. At June 30, 2008, the Company had $3.1 billion of short term debt outstanding. Standard & Poors, Moodys, and Fitch rate the Companys commercial paper as A 1, P 1, and F1, respectively, and rate the Companys long term debt as A, A2, and A, respectively. In addition to the cash flow generated from operations, the Company has access to equity and debt capital through numerous alternatives from public and private sources in domestic and international markets. The Company has outstanding $1.15 billion principal amount of convertible senior notes. As of June 30, 2008, none of the conditions permitting conversion of the notes had been satisfied. As of June 30, 2008, the market price of the Companys common stock was not greater than the exercise price of the purchased call options or warrants related to the convertible senior notes. In June 2008, the Company issued $1.75 billion of debentures as a component of Equity Units. The Equity Units are a combination of (a) debt and (b) forward contracts for the holder to purchase the Companys common stock. The purchase contracts obligate the holder to purchase from the Company, no later than June 1, 2011, for a price of $50 in cash, a certain number of shares, ranging from 1.0453 shares to 1.2544 shares, of the Companys common stock, based on a formula established in the contract. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements In the normal course of business, the Company enters into contracts and commitments which obligate the Company to make payments in the future. The following table sets forth the Companys significant future obligations by time period. Purchases include commodity based contracts entered into in the normal course of business, which are further described in Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, energy related purchase contracts entered into in the normal course of business, and other purchase obligations related to the Companys normal business activities. Where applicable, information included in the Companys consolidated financial statements and notes is cross referenced in this table. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Payments Due by Period Contractual Note Less than 1 3 3 5 More than Obligations Reference Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years (In millions) Purchases Inventories $ 24,230 $ 22,813 $ 1,200 $ 174 $ 43 Energy 952 502 302 80 68 Other 148 58 60 18 12 Total purchases 25,330 23,373 1,562 272 123 Short term debt Note 7 3,123 3,123 Long term debt Note 7 7,993 232 358 380 7,023 Estimated interest payments 9,639 511 808 758 7,562 Operating leases Note 12 1,364 403 402 239 320 Estimated pension and other postretirement plan contributions Note 13 1,217 90 204 229 694 Total $ 48,666 $ 27,732 $ 3,334 $ 1,878 $ 15,722 At June 30, 2008, the Company estimates it will spend approximately $2.5 billion over the next five years to complete currently approved capital projects and acquisitions which is not included in the table above. The Company is a limited partner in various private equity funds which invest primarily in emerging markets. At June 30, 2008, the Companys carrying value of these limited partnership investments was $129 million. The Company has future capital commitments related to these partnerships of $137 million and expects the majority of these additional capital commitments, if called for, to be funded by cash flows generated by the partnerships. The Company also has outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds of $500 million at June 30, 2008. In addition, the Company has entered into agreements, primarily debt guarantee agreements related to equity method investees, which could obligate the Company to make future payments. The Companys liability under these agreements arises only if the primary entity fails to perform its contractual obligation. The Company has collateral for a portion of these contingent obligations. At June 30, 2008, these contingent obligations totaled approximately $135 million. Amounts outstanding for the primary entity under these contingent obligations were $62 million at June 30, 2008. Critical Accounting Policies The process of preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the carrying values of the Companys assets and liabilities as well as the recognition of revenues and expenses. These estimates and judgments are based on the Companys historical experience and managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Certain of the Companys accounting policies are considered critical, as these policies are important to the depiction of the Companys financial statements and require significant or complex judgment by management. Management has discussed with the Companys Audit Committee the development, selection, disclosure, and application of these critical accounting policies. Following are the accounting policies management considers critical to the Companys financial statements. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Inventories and Derivatives Certain of the Companys merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, forward fixed price purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts are valued at estimated market values. These merchandisable agricultural commodities are freely traded, have quoted market prices, and may be sold without significant additional processing. Management estimates market value based on exchange quoted prices, adjusted for differences in local markets. Changes in the market values of these inventories and contracts are recognized in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. If management used different methods or factors to estimate market value, amounts reported as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. Additionally, if market conditions change subsequent to year end, amounts reported in future periods as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. The Company, from time to time, uses derivative contracts designated as cash flow hedges to fix the purchase price of anticipated volumes of commodities to be purchased and processed in a future month, to fix the purchase price of the Companys anticipated natural gas requirements for certain production facilities, and to fix the sales price of anticipated volumes of ethanol. The change in the market value of such derivative contracts has historically been, and is expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. If it is determined that the derivative instruments used are no longer effective at offsetting changes in the price of the hedged item, then the changes in the market value of these exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts would be recorded in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. Employee Benefit Plans The Company provides substantially all domestic employees and employees at certain international subsidiaries with pension benefits. The Company also provides substantially all domestic salaried employees with postretirement health care and life insurance benefits. In order to measure the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans, management makes several estimates and assumptions, including interest rates used to discount certain liabilities, rates of return on assets set aside to fund these plans, rates of compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and anticipated future health care costs. These estimates and assumptions are based on the Companys historical experience combined with managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Management also uses third party actuaries to assist in measuring the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans. If management used different estimates and assumptions regarding these plans, the funded status of the plans could vary significantly, and the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Income Taxes The Company frequently faces challenges from domestic and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company records reserves for estimates of potential additional tax owed by the Company. Deferred tax assets represent items to be used as tax deductions or credits in future tax returns, and the related tax benefit has already been recognized in the Companys income statement. Realization of certain deferred tax assets reflects the Companys tax planning strategies. Valuation allowances related to these deferred tax assets have been established to the extent the realization of the tax benefit is not probable. Based on managements evaluation of the Companys tax position, it is believed the amounts related to these tax exposures are appropriately accrued. To the extent the Company were to favorably resolve matters for which accruals have been established or be required to pay amounts in excess of the aforementioned reserves, the Companys effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be impacted. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and affiliated corporate joint ventures accounted for on the equity method are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by unpredictable factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned unpredictable factors, therefore, may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and profitability of the Companys asset base in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its factories. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment, technology, and companies related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. The Company evaluates goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives for impairment annually. Assets are written down after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these assets, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Valuation of Marketable Securities and Investments in Affiliates The Company classifies the majority of its marketable securities as available for sale and carries these securities at fair value. Investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings and are adjusted, where appropriate, for amortizable basis differences between the investment balance and the underlying net assets of the investee. For publicly traded securities, the fair value of the Companys investments is readily available based on quoted market prices. For non publicly traded securities, managements assessment of fair value is based on valuation methodologies including discounted cash flows and estimates of sales proceeds. In the event of a decline in fair value of an investment below carrying value, management may be required to determine if the decline in fair value is other than temporary. In evaluating the nature of a decline in the fair value of an investment, management considers the market conditions, trends of earnings, discounted cash flows, trading volumes, and other key measures of the investment as well as the Companys ability and intent to hold the investment. When such a decline in value is deemed to be other than temporary, an impairment loss is recognized in the current period operating results to the extent of the decline. See Notes 3 and 5 to the Companys consolidated financial statements for information regarding the Companys marketable securities and investments in affiliates. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these marketable securities, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in: commodity market prices as they relate to the Companys net commodity position, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and price of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to unpredictable factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. To reduce price risk caused by market fluctuations, the Company generally follows a policy of using exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts to minimize its net position of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories and forward cash purchase and sales contracts. The Company will also use exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the volatility of the relationship between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contracts defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company from time to time enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. A sensitivity analysis has been prepared to estimate the Companys exposure to market risk of its daily net commodity position. The Companys daily net commodity position consists of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, related purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts, including those contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements. The fair value of such daily net commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing each net position at quoted futures prices. Market risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in such prices. Actual results may differ. 2008 2007 Long/(Short) Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest position $ 1,260 $ 126 $ 703 $ 70 Lowest position (915 ) (92 ) (565 ) (57 ) Average position 251 25 180 18 The change in fair value of the average position for 2008 compared to 2007 was principally a result of increases in commodity prices and, to a lesser extent, quantities underlying the daily net commodity position. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) Currencies In order to reduce the risk of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, except for amounts permanently invested as described below, the Company follows a policy of entering into currency exchange forward contracts to mitigate its foreign currency risk related to transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currencies applicable to each of its various entities. The instruments used are forward contracts, swaps with banks, and exchange traded futures contracts. The changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $7.0 billion at June 30, 2008, and $5.4 billion at June 30, 2007. This increase is due to an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and appreciation of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar. The potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $695 million and $543 million for 2008 and 2007, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical .5% decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2008 2007 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 7,789 $ 4,862 Excess of fair value over carrying value 99 110 Market risk 308 232 The increase in fair value of long term debt in 2008 resulted principally from the Companys issuance of approximately $3.1 billion in long term debt in 2008. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) 2007 Compared to 2006 As an agricultural based commodity business, the Company is subject to a variety of market factors which affect the Companys operating results. Strong biodiesel demand in Europe continued to create increased vegetable oil demand and positively impacted rapeseed crushing margins in Europe. Abundant oilseed supplies, improved vegetable oil values, and strong protein meal demand have positively impacted oilseed crushing margins in North America. Increased ethanol contracted selling prices, continuing strong ethanol demand, and solid demand for sweetener and starch products improved corn processing results. These increases in corn processing results were partially offset by higher net corn costs. Global grain merchandising opportunities resulting from regional production imbalances also improved operating results. North American river transportation operations were favorably impacted by strong demand for river transportation services which increased barge freight rates. Increasing commodity price levels resulted in larger LIFO inventory valuation reserves. Net earnings increased due principally to improved operating results in all of the Companys operating segments. Earnings before income taxes for 2007 include a gain of $440 million related to the exchange of the Companys interests in certain Asian joint ventures for shares of Wilmar International Limited (the Wilmar Gain), a $357 million realized securities gain from sales of the Companys equity securities of Tyson Foods, Inc. and Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc., a gain of $153 million from the sale of the Companys interest in Agricore United and a $53 million gain from the sale of the Companys Arkady food ingredient business. Earnings before income taxes for 2007 also include charges of $207 million from the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations, $46 million related to the repurchase of $400 million of the Companys outstanding debentures, and $21 million related to abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Net earnings for 2006 include a $36 million reduction in income tax expense related to the recognition of federal and state income tax credits and adjustments resulting from the reconciliation of filed tax returns to the previously estimated tax provision. Earnings before income taxes for 2006 include charges of $15 million resulting from the Companys adoption of Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation No. 47, Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations, an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 143 (FIN 47), $71 million related to abandonment and write down of long lived assets, $9 million representing the Companys share of a charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets reported by an unconsolidated affiliate of the Company, and $22 million associated with the closure of a citric acid plant and exiting the European animal feed business. Earnings before income taxes for 2006 also include credits of $12 million from the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations, $17 million from the sale of long lived assets, $46 million related to Brazilian transactional tax credits, and $40 million related to realized securities gains. Analysis of Statements of Earnings Net sales and other operating income increased 20% to $44.0 billion due primarily to increased selling prices of agricultural commodities, oilseed and corn processing products and, to a lesser extent, increased sales volumes of agricultural commodities and oilseed processing products. In addition, net sales and other operating income increased $916 million, or 3%, due to currency exchange rate fluctuations. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Net sales and other operating income by segment are as follows: 2007 2006 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing & Origination $ 8,036 $ 7,048 $ 988 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel & Other 5,758 4,726 1,032 Asia 149 119 30 Total Oilseeds Processing 13,943 11,893 2,050 Corn Processing Sweeteners & Starches 2,761 2,529 232 Bioproducts 3,064 2,727 337 Total Corn Processing 5,825 5,256 569 Agricultural Services Merchandising & Handling 20,222 15,954 4,268 Transportation 197 201 (4 ) Total Agricultural Services 20,419 16,155 4,264 Other Wheat, Cocoa, & Malt 3,738 3,217 521 Financial 93 75 18 Total Other 3,831 3,292 539 Total $ 44,018 $ 36,596 $ 7,422 Oilseeds Processing sales increased 17% to $13.9 billion due principally to increased average selling prices of vegetable oil and increased sales volumes of vegetable oil and biodiesel. Vegetable oil selling prices and volumes improved as the markets anticipated new demand from the developing United States biodiesel industry. Biodiesel sales volumes increased due to additional production capacity. Corn Processing sales increased 11% to $5.8 billion due principally to increased sales of Bioproducts and, to a lesser extent, increased sales of Sweeteners and Starches. Bioproducts sales increased primarily due to higher average selling prices of ethanol, partially offset by lower sales volumes. Ethanol average selling prices increased primarily due to higher gasoline prices. Ethanol sales volumes decreased as 2006 sales volumes exceeded production due to the release of inventories built up in anticipation of refiners replacing MTBE with ethanol. Sweeteners and Starches sales increased primarily due to higher average selling prices resulting from good demand for sweetener and starch products. Agricultural Services sales increased 26% to $20.4 billion due principally to increased agricultural commodity prices and increased sales volumes. The increase in commodity prices was primarily due to higher average market prices of corn in North America which had increased 60% from the prior year. Increased sales volumes of global grain merchandising activities also contributed to the increase in Agricultural Services sales. Other sales increased 16% to $3.8 billion primarily due to higher average selling prices of wheat flour products and, to a lesser extent, increased sales volumes and higher average selling prices of cocoa products. Cost of products sold increased 21% to $40.8 billion primarily due to higher average costs of agricultural commodities and increased sales volumes. Manufacturing costs for 2007 and 2006 include a $21 million and $62 million charge, respectively, for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. In addition, cost of products sold increased $874 million, or 3%, due to currency exchange rate fluctuations. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Selling, general, and administrative expenses of $1.2 billion were comparable to 2006 and included $25 million of currency exchange rate increases. Excluding the impact of currency exchange rate increases, selling, general and administrative expenses decreased $23 million due principally to 2006 selling, general and administrative expenses including $20 million of severance costs associated with the closure of a citric acid plant. During 2007 and 2006, the Company issued option grants and restricted stock awards to officers and key employees pursuant to the Companys Long term Management Incentive Program. Certain officers and key employees of the Company receiving option grants and restricted stock awards were eligible for retirement. Compensation expense related to option grants and restricted stock awards issued to these retirement eligible employees is recognized in earnings on the date of grant. Selling, general, and administrative expense for 2007 and 2006 includes compensation expense related to option grants and restricted stock awards granted to retirement eligible employees of $30 million and $31 million, respectively. Other income net increased $1.0 billion primarily due to the $440 million Wilmar Gain, a $357 million gain on the sale of the Companys equity securities of Tyson Foods, Inc. and Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc., a $153 million gain on the sale of the Companys interest in Agricore United, and a $53 million gain on the sale of the Companys Arkady food ingredient business. Other income net also includes a $46 million charge related to the repurchase of $400 million of the Companys outstanding debentures in 2007. Excluding these items, other income net increased $73 million primarily due to a $120 million increase in equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates, and a $53 million increase in investment income, partially offset by a $69 million increase in interest expense and a $27 million reduction in gains on sales of long lived assets. The increase in equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates was primarily due to higher valuations of the Companys private equity fund investments and improved operating results of the Companys Asian oilseed ventures. Interest expense and investment income increased primarily due to increased average borrowing and investment levels. Operating profit by segment is as follows: 2007 2006 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing & Origination $ 414 $ 376 $ 38 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel & Other 202 140 62 Asia 523 53 470 Total Oilseeds Processing 1,139 569 570 Corn Processing Sweeteners & Starches 509 458 51 Bioproducts 596 443 153 Total Corn Processing 1,105 901 204 Agricultural Services Merchandising & Handling 382 94 288 Transportation 156 143 13 Total Agricultural Services 538 237 301 Other Wheat, Cocoa, & Malt 209 228 (19 ) Financial 170 126 44 Total Other 379 354 25 Total Segment Operating Profit 3,161 2,061 1,100 Corporate (7 ) (206 ) 199 Earnings Before Income Taxes $ 3,154 $ 1,855 $ 1,299 Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Oilseeds Processing operating profits increased $570 million to $1.1 billion due principally to the $440 million Wilmar Gain and improved market conditions in all geographic regions. North American processing results improved due principally to abundant oilseed supplies in the United States and good demand for vegetable oil and soybean meal. Vegetable oil values improved as the markets anticipated new demand from the developing United States biodiesel industry. North American processing results were also favorably impacted by lower plant operating costs resulting from improved capacity utilization. Asian joint venture results improved due to improved palm processing operating results partially offset by decreased soy crushing operating results. European processing results improved due principally to abundant oilseed supplies in Europe and strong demand for vegetable oil. The strong demand for vegetable oil is the result of strong biodiesel demand. These increases were partially offset by decreased biodiesel operating profits resulting from higher vegetable oil prices, increased market production capacity, and lower diesel fuel prices. South American processing results declined due principally to the $27 million credit for Brazilian transactional taxes in 2006. Excluding the impact of the credit for Brazilian transactional taxes, South American processing results improved due principally to increased fertilizer margins. The improvement in fertilizer margins was primarily due to higher average sales prices due to improved fertilizer demand combined with stable raw material costs. Operating profits for 2007 include a $6 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Operating profits for 2006 include a $14 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets and a $6 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47. Corn Processing operating profits increased $204 million to $1.1 billion due principally to higher average selling prices and lower energy costs, partially offset by lower ethanol sales volumes and higher net corn costs. Net corn costs increased approximately 60% during 2007 due to significant anticipated demand increases for corn resulting primarily from increasing corn derived ethanol industry capacity. Agricultural commodity market concerns regarding the expected decline in the ending 2006 corn crop carryover also contributed to the increase in corn costs. Sweeteners and Starches operating profits increased $51 million primarily due to higher average sales prices and lower energy costs. Sales prices increased due principally to good demand for sweetener and starch products. These increases were partially offset by increased net corn costs. Sweeteners and Starches operating profits for 2006 include a $5 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47. Bioproducts operating profits increased $153 million primarily due to higher ethanol average selling prices and lower energy costs, partially offset by increased net corn costs and lower ethanol sales volumes. Ethanol average sales prices increased due principally to strong demand from gasoline refiners and higher gasoline prices. Ethanol sales volumes decreased as 2006 sales volumes exceeded production due to the release of inventories built up in anticipation of refiners replacing MTBE with ethanol. Bioproducts operating results for 2007 include a $1 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Bioproducts operating results for 2006 include a $6 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets, a $2 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47, and $6 million of costs related to the closure of a citric acid plant. Agricultural Services operating profits increased $301 million to $538 million due principally to a $153 million gain from the sale of the Companys interest in Agricore United, a Canadian business which specialized in crop input, crop protection services, and grain marketing and merchandising. Excluding the Agricore United gain, Agricultural Services operating profits increased $148 million to $385 million due principally to improved global grain merchandising operating results and, to a lesser extent, improved transportation and North American origination operating results. Global grain merchandising results improved as regional production imbalances allowed the Company to capitalize on merchandising opportunities. North American river transportation operating results increased primarily due to increased barge freight rates created by strong demand for barge capacity. North American origination operating results improved due to good export demand for agricultural commodities and higher ocean freight rates. Agricultural Services operating profits for 2007 include a $12 million trade disruption insurance recovery related to Hurricane Katrina. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Other operating profits increased $25 million to $379 million. Wheat, Cocoa, and Malt operating profits decreased $19 million. Wheat operating profits include a $39 million gain on the sale of the Companys Arkady food ingredient business in 2007 and a $17 million gain from the sale of long lived assets in 2006. Excluding the effect of these one time gains, Wheat, Cocoa, and Malt operating profits declined $41 million primarily due to cocoa operating results declining from prior year levels and to a lesser extent, weaker equity earnings from our investment in Gruma S.A. partially offset by improved operating results of the Companys wheat flour processing operations. Cocoa processing operating results declined primarily due to increased industry production capacity which caused downward pressure on cocoa processing margins. Financial operating profits increased $44 million due principally to increased valuations of the Companys private equity fund investments and higher operating results of the Companys futures commission merchant business, partially offset by lower operating results of the Companys captive insurance operations. The results of the Companys captive insurance operations for 2007 include a $12 million charge related to a Hurricane Katrina trade disruption insurance settlement. Corporate expense decreased $199 million to $7 million due principally to a $345 million increase in realized securities gains principally resulting from sales of the Companys equity securities of Tyson Foods, Inc. and Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc. and a $103 million reduction in unallocated interest expense due principally to higher levels of invested funds and higher interest rates. These decreases were partially offset by a $207 million charge, compared to a $12 million credit in the prior year, related to the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations and a $46 million charge related to the repurchase of $400 million of the Companys outstanding debentures. Income taxes increased due principally to higher pretax earnings and the absence of a $36 million income tax credit in 2006 related to the recognition of federal and state income tax credits and adjustments resulting from the reconciliation of filed tax returns to the previously estimated tax provision. The Companys effective tax rate during 2007 was 31.5% and, after excluding the effect of the 2006 $36 million tax credit, was 31.2% for the prior year. The increase in the Companys effective tax rate was primarily due to changes in the geographic mix of pretax earnings. Liquidity and Capital Resources A Company objective is to have sufficient liquidity, balance sheet strength, and financial flexibility to fund the operating and capital requirements of a capital intensive agricultural based commodity business. At June 30, 2008, the Company had $1.3 billion of cash, cash equivalents, and short term marketable securities and a current ratio, defined as current assets divided by current liabilities, of 1.7 to 1. Included in working capital is $7.8 billion of readily marketable commodity inventories. Cash used in operating activities totaled $3.2 billion for the year compared to $303 million cash generated from operations last year. This change was primarily due to an increase in working capital requirements principally related to increased market prices and, to a lesser extent, increased quantities of agricultural commodity inventories, principally readily marketable commodity inventories, and increased receivables. Cash used in investing activities increased $1.5 billion for the year to $1.9 billion primarily due to increased capital expenditures and decreased proceeds from sales of businesses including the sale of the Companys equity interests in Tyson Foods, Inc., Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc. and Agricore United in 2007. Cash generated by financing activities was $5.2 billion compared to cash used in financing activities of $398 million last year. Net long term borrowings increased primarily as a result of the issuance in 2008 of approximately $3.1 billion of additional long term debt, including $500 million of debentures issued in December 2007, $700 million of notes issued in March 2008, and $1.75 billion of debentures in June 2008, compared to $1.15 billion of convertible senior notes issued in February 2007, partially offset by $480 million of reduced debt payments principally related to the Companys retirement of $400 million of debentures in 2007. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Capital resources were strengthened in 2008 as shown by the increase in the Companys net worth from $11.3 billion to $13.5 billion. The Companys ratio of long term debt to total capital (the sum of the Companys long term debt and shareholders equity) was 36% at June 30, 2008, and 30% at June 30, 2007. This ratio is a measure of the Companys long term liquidity and is an indicator of financial flexibility. The Company currently has $7.4 billion of commercial paper and commercial bank lines available to meet seasonal cash requirements of which $5.2 billion are committed and $2.2 billion are uncommitted. At June 30, 2008, the Company had $3.1 billion of short term debt outstanding. Standard & Poors, Moodys, and Fitch rate the Companys commercial paper as A 1, P 1, and F1, respectively, and rate the Companys long term debt as A, A2, and A, respectively. In addition to the cash flow generated from operations, the Company has access to equity and debt capital through numerous alternatives from public and private sources in domestic and international markets. The Company has outstanding $1.15 billion principal amount of convertible senior notes. As of June 30, 2008, none of the conditions permitting conversion of the notes had been satisfied. As of June 30, 2008, the market price of the Companys common stock was not greater than the exercise price of the purchased call options or warrants related to the convertible senior notes. In June 2008, the Company issued $1.75 billion of debentures as a component of Equity Units. The Equity Units are a combination of (a) debt and (b) forward contracts for the holder to purchase the Companys common stock. The purchase contracts obligate the holder to purchase from the Company, no later than June 1, 2011, for a price of $50 in cash, a certain number of shares, ranging from 1.0453 shares to 1.2544 shares, of the Companys common stock, based on a formula established in the contract. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements In the normal course of business, the Company enters into contracts and commitments which obligate the Company to make payments in the future. The following table sets forth the Companys significant future obligations by time period. Purchases include commodity based contracts entered into in the normal course of business, which are further described in Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, energy related purchase contracts entered into in the normal course of business, and other purchase obligations related to the Companys normal business activities. Where applicable, information included in the Companys consolidated financial statements and notes is cross referenced in this table. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Payments Due by Period Contractual Note Less than 1 3 3 5 More than Obligations Reference Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years (In millions) Purchases Inventories $ 24,230 $ 22,813 $ 1,200 $ 174 $ 43 Energy 952 502 302 80 68 Other 148 58 60 18 12 Total purchases 25,330 23,373 1,562 272 123 Short term debt Note 7 3,123 3,123 Long term debt Note 7 7,993 232 358 380 7,023 Estimated interest payments 9,639 511 808 758 7,562 Operating leases Note 12 1,364 403 402 239 320 Estimated pension and other postretirement plan contributions Note 13 1,217 90 204 229 694 Total $ 48,666 $ 27,732 $ 3,334 $ 1,878 $ 15,722 At June 30, 2008, the Company estimates it will spend approximately $2.5 billion over the next five years to complete currently approved capital projects and acquisitions which is not included in the table above. The Company is a limited partner in various private equity funds which invest primarily in emerging markets. At June 30, 2008, the Companys carrying value of these limited partnership investments was $129 million. The Company has future capital commitments related to these partnerships of $137 million and expects the majority of these additional capital commitments, if called for, to be funded by cash flows generated by the partnerships. The Company also has outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds of $500 million at June 30, 2008. In addition, the Company has entered into agreements, primarily debt guarantee agreements related to equity method investees, which could obligate the Company to make future payments. The Companys liability under these agreements arises only if the primary entity fails to perform its contractual obligation. The Company has collateral for a portion of these contingent obligations. At June 30, 2008, these contingent obligations totaled approximately $135 million. Amounts outstanding for the primary entity under these contingent obligations were $62 million at June 30, 2008. Critical Accounting Policies The process of preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the carrying values of the Companys assets and liabilities as well as the recognition of revenues and expenses. These estimates and judgments are based on the Companys historical experience and managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Certain of the Companys accounting policies are considered critical, as these policies are important to the depiction of the Companys financial statements and require significant or complex judgment by management. Management has discussed with the Companys Audit Committee the development, selection, disclosure, and application of these critical accounting policies. Following are the accounting policies management considers critical to the Companys financial statements. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Inventories and Derivatives Certain of the Companys merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, forward fixed price purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts are valued at estimated market values. These merchandisable agricultural commodities are freely traded, have quoted market prices, and may be sold without significant additional processing. Management estimates market value based on exchange quoted prices, adjusted for differences in local markets. Changes in the market values of these inventories and contracts are recognized in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. If management used different methods or factors to estimate market value, amounts reported as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. Additionally, if market conditions change subsequent to year end, amounts reported in future periods as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. The Company, from time to time, uses derivative contracts designated as cash flow hedges to fix the purchase price of anticipated volumes of commodities to be purchased and processed in a future month, to fix the purchase price of the Companys anticipated natural gas requirements for certain production facilities, and to fix the sales price of anticipated volumes of ethanol. The change in the market value of such derivative contracts has historically been, and is expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. If it is determined that the derivative instruments used are no longer effective at offsetting changes in the price of the hedged item, then the changes in the market value of these exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts would be recorded in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. Employee Benefit Plans The Company provides substantially all domestic employees and employees at certain international subsidiaries with pension benefits. The Company also provides substantially all domestic salaried employees with postretirement health care and life insurance benefits. In order to measure the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans, management makes several estimates and assumptions, including interest rates used to discount certain liabilities, rates of return on assets set aside to fund these plans, rates of compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and anticipated future health care costs. These estimates and assumptions are based on the Companys historical experience combined with managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Management also uses third party actuaries to assist in measuring the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans. If management used different estimates and assumptions regarding these plans, the funded status of the plans could vary significantly, and the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Income Taxes The Company frequently faces challenges from domestic and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company records reserves for estimates of potential additional tax owed by the Company. Deferred tax assets represent items to be used as tax deductions or credits in future tax returns, and the related tax benefit has already been recognized in the Companys income statement. Realization of certain deferred tax assets reflects the Companys tax planning strategies. Valuation allowances related to these deferred tax assets have been established to the extent the realization of the tax benefit is not probable. Based on managements evaluation of the Companys tax position, it is believed the amounts related to these tax exposures are appropriately accrued. To the extent the Company were to favorably resolve matters for which accruals have been established or be required to pay amounts in excess of the aforementioned reserves, the Companys effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be impacted. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and affiliated corporate joint ventures accounted for on the equity method are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by unpredictable factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned unpredictable factors, therefore, may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and profitability of the Companys asset base in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its factories. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment, technology, and companies related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. The Company evaluates goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives for impairment annually. Assets are written down after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these assets, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Valuation of Marketable Securities and Investments in Affiliates The Company classifies the majority of its marketable securities as available for sale and carries these securities at fair value. Investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings and are adjusted, where appropriate, for amortizable basis differences between the investment balance and the underlying net assets of the investee. For publicly traded securities, the fair value of the Companys investments is readily available based on quoted market prices. For non publicly traded securities, managements assessment of fair value is based on valuation methodologies including discounted cash flows and estimates of sales proceeds. In the event of a decline in fair value of an investment below carrying value, management may be required to determine if the decline in fair value is other than temporary. In evaluating the nature of a decline in the fair value of an investment, management considers the market conditions, trends of earnings, discounted cash flows, trading volumes, and other key measures of the investment as well as the Companys ability and intent to hold the investment. When such a decline in value is deemed to be other than temporary, an impairment loss is recognized in the current period operating results to the extent of the decline. See Notes 3 and 5 to the Companys consolidated financial statements for information regarding the Companys marketable securities and investments in affiliates. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these marketable securities, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in: commodity market prices as they relate to the Companys net commodity position, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and price of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to unpredictable factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. To reduce price risk caused by market fluctuations, the Company generally follows a policy of using exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts to minimize its net position of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories and forward cash purchase and sales contracts. The Company will also use exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the volatility of the relationship between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contracts defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company from time to time enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. A sensitivity analysis has been prepared to estimate the Companys exposure to market risk of its daily net commodity position. The Companys daily net commodity position consists of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, related purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts, including those contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements. The fair value of such daily net commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing each net position at quoted futures prices. Market risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in such prices. Actual results may differ. 2008 2007 Long/(Short) Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest position $ 1,260 $ 126 $ 703 $ 70 Lowest position (915 ) (92 ) (565 ) (57 ) Average position 251 25 180 18 The change in fair value of the average position for 2008 compared to 2007 was principally a result of increases in commodity prices and, to a lesser extent, quantities underlying the daily net commodity position. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) Currencies In order to reduce the risk of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, except for amounts permanently invested as described below, the Company follows a policy of entering into currency exchange forward contracts to mitigate its foreign currency risk related to transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currencies applicable to each of its various entities. The instruments used are forward contracts, swaps with banks, and exchange traded futures contracts. The changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $7.0 billion at June 30, 2008, and $5.4 billion at June 30, 2007. This increase is due to an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and appreciation of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar. The potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $695 million and $543 million for 2008 and 2007, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical .5% decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2008 2007 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 7,789 $ 4,862 Excess of fair value over carrying value 99 110 Market risk 308 232 The increase in fair value of long term debt in 2008 resulted principally from the Companys issuance of approximately $3.1 billion in long term debt in 2008. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Net sales and other operating income by segment are as follows: 2007 2006 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing & Origination $ 8,036 $ 7,048 $ 988 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel & Other 5,758 4,726 1,032 Asia 149 119 30 Total Oilseeds Processing 13,943 11,893 2,050 Corn Processing Sweeteners & Starches 2,761 2,529 232 Bioproducts 3,064 2,727 337 Total Corn Processing 5,825 5,256 569 Agricultural Services Merchandising & Handling 20,222 15,954 4,268 Transportation 197 201 (4 ) Total Agricultural Services 20,419 16,155 4,264 Other Wheat, Cocoa, & Malt 3,738 3,217 521 Financial 93 75 18 Total Other 3,831 3,292 539 Total $ 44,018 $ 36,596 $ 7,422 Oilseeds Processing sales increased 17% to $13.9 billion due principally to increased average selling prices of vegetable oil and increased sales volumes of vegetable oil and biodiesel. Vegetable oil selling prices and volumes improved as the markets anticipated new demand from the developing United States biodiesel industry. Biodiesel sales volumes increased due to additional production capacity. Corn Processing sales increased 11% to $5.8 billion due principally to increased sales of Bioproducts and, to a lesser extent, increased sales of Sweeteners and Starches. Bioproducts sales increased primarily due to higher average selling prices of ethanol, partially offset by lower sales volumes. Ethanol average selling prices increased primarily due to higher gasoline prices. Ethanol sales volumes decreased as 2006 sales volumes exceeded production due to the release of inventories built up in anticipation of refiners replacing MTBE with ethanol. Sweeteners and Starches sales increased primarily due to higher average selling prices resulting from good demand for sweetener and starch products. Agricultural Services sales increased 26% to $20.4 billion due principally to increased agricultural commodity prices and increased sales volumes. The increase in commodity prices was primarily due to higher average market prices of corn in North America which had increased 60% from the prior year. Increased sales volumes of global grain merchandising activities also contributed to the increase in Agricultural Services sales. Other sales increased 16% to $3.8 billion primarily due to higher average selling prices of wheat flour products and, to a lesser extent, increased sales volumes and higher average selling prices of cocoa products. Cost of products sold increased 21% to $40.8 billion primarily due to higher average costs of agricultural commodities and increased sales volumes. Manufacturing costs for 2007 and 2006 include a $21 million and $62 million charge, respectively, for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. In addition, cost of products sold increased $874 million, or 3%, due to currency exchange rate fluctuations. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Selling, general, and administrative expenses of $1.2 billion were comparable to 2006 and included $25 million of currency exchange rate increases. Excluding the impact of currency exchange rate increases, selling, general and administrative expenses decreased $23 million due principally to 2006 selling, general and administrative expenses including $20 million of severance costs associated with the closure of a citric acid plant. During 2007 and 2006, the Company issued option grants and restricted stock awards to officers and key employees pursuant to the Companys Long term Management Incentive Program. Certain officers and key employees of the Company receiving option grants and restricted stock awards were eligible for retirement. Compensation expense related to option grants and restricted stock awards issued to these retirement eligible employees is recognized in earnings on the date of grant. Selling, general, and administrative expense for 2007 and 2006 includes compensation expense related to option grants and restricted stock awards granted to retirement eligible employees of $30 million and $31 million, respectively. Other income net increased $1.0 billion primarily due to the $440 million Wilmar Gain, a $357 million gain on the sale of the Companys equity securities of Tyson Foods, Inc. and Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc., a $153 million gain on the sale of the Companys interest in Agricore United, and a $53 million gain on the sale of the Companys Arkady food ingredient business. Other income net also includes a $46 million charge related to the repurchase of $400 million of the Companys outstanding debentures in 2007. Excluding these items, other income net increased $73 million primarily due to a $120 million increase in equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates, and a $53 million increase in investment income, partially offset by a $69 million increase in interest expense and a $27 million reduction in gains on sales of long lived assets. The increase in equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates was primarily due to higher valuations of the Companys private equity fund investments and improved operating results of the Companys Asian oilseed ventures. Interest expense and investment income increased primarily due to increased average borrowing and investment levels. Operating profit by segment is as follows: 2007 2006 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing & Origination $ 414 $ 376 $ 38 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel & Other 202 140 62 Asia 523 53 470 Total Oilseeds Processing 1,139 569 570 Corn Processing Sweeteners & Starches 509 458 51 Bioproducts 596 443 153 Total Corn Processing 1,105 901 204 Agricultural Services Merchandising & Handling 382 94 288 Transportation 156 143 13 Total Agricultural Services 538 237 301 Other Wheat, Cocoa, & Malt 209 228 (19 ) Financial 170 126 44 Total Other 379 354 25 Total Segment Operating Profit 3,161 2,061 1,100 Corporate (7 ) (206 ) 199 Earnings Before Income Taxes $ 3,154 $ 1,855 $ 1,299 Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Oilseeds Processing operating profits increased $570 million to $1.1 billion due principally to the $440 million Wilmar Gain and improved market conditions in all geographic regions. North American processing results improved due principally to abundant oilseed supplies in the United States and good demand for vegetable oil and soybean meal. Vegetable oil values improved as the markets anticipated new demand from the developing United States biodiesel industry. North American processing results were also favorably impacted by lower plant operating costs resulting from improved capacity utilization. Asian joint venture results improved due to improved palm processing operating results partially offset by decreased soy crushing operating results. European processing results improved due principally to abundant oilseed supplies in Europe and strong demand for vegetable oil. The strong demand for vegetable oil is the result of strong biodiesel demand. These increases were partially offset by decreased biodiesel operating profits resulting from higher vegetable oil prices, increased market production capacity, and lower diesel fuel prices. South American processing results declined due principally to the $27 million credit for Brazilian transactional taxes in 2006. Excluding the impact of the credit for Brazilian transactional taxes, South American processing results improved due principally to increased fertilizer margins. The improvement in fertilizer margins was primarily due to higher average sales prices due to improved fertilizer demand combined with stable raw material costs. Operating profits for 2007 include a $6 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Operating profits for 2006 include a $14 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets and a $6 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47. Corn Processing operating profits increased $204 million to $1.1 billion due principally to higher average selling prices and lower energy costs, partially offset by lower ethanol sales volumes and higher net corn costs. Net corn costs increased approximately 60% during 2007 due to significant anticipated demand increases for corn resulting primarily from increasing corn derived ethanol industry capacity. Agricultural commodity market concerns regarding the expected decline in the ending 2006 corn crop carryover also contributed to the increase in corn costs. Sweeteners and Starches operating profits increased $51 million primarily due to higher average sales prices and lower energy costs. Sales prices increased due principally to good demand for sweetener and starch products. These increases were partially offset by increased net corn costs. Sweeteners and Starches operating profits for 2006 include a $5 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47. Bioproducts operating profits increased $153 million primarily due to higher ethanol average selling prices and lower energy costs, partially offset by increased net corn costs and lower ethanol sales volumes. Ethanol average sales prices increased due principally to strong demand from gasoline refiners and higher gasoline prices. Ethanol sales volumes decreased as 2006 sales volumes exceeded production due to the release of inventories built up in anticipation of refiners replacing MTBE with ethanol. Bioproducts operating results for 2007 include a $1 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Bioproducts operating results for 2006 include a $6 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets, a $2 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47, and $6 million of costs related to the closure of a citric acid plant. Agricultural Services operating profits increased $301 million to $538 million due principally to a $153 million gain from the sale of the Companys interest in Agricore United, a Canadian business which specialized in crop input, crop protection services, and grain marketing and merchandising. Excluding the Agricore United gain, Agricultural Services operating profits increased $148 million to $385 million due principally to improved global grain merchandising operating results and, to a lesser extent, improved transportation and North American origination operating results. Global grain merchandising results improved as regional production imbalances allowed the Company to capitalize on merchandising opportunities. North American river transportation operating results increased primarily due to increased barge freight rates created by strong demand for barge capacity. North American origination operating results improved due to good export demand for agricultural commodities and higher ocean freight rates. Agricultural Services operating profits for 2007 include a $12 million trade disruption insurance recovery related to Hurricane Katrina. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Other operating profits increased $25 million to $379 million. Wheat, Cocoa, and Malt operating profits decreased $19 million. Wheat operating profits include a $39 million gain on the sale of the Companys Arkady food ingredient business in 2007 and a $17 million gain from the sale of long lived assets in 2006. Excluding the effect of these one time gains, Wheat, Cocoa, and Malt operating profits declined $41 million primarily due to cocoa operating results declining from prior year levels and to a lesser extent, weaker equity earnings from our investment in Gruma S.A. partially offset by improved operating results of the Companys wheat flour processing operations. Cocoa processing operating results declined primarily due to increased industry production capacity which caused downward pressure on cocoa processing margins. Financial operating profits increased $44 million due principally to increased valuations of the Companys private equity fund investments and higher operating results of the Companys futures commission merchant business, partially offset by lower operating results of the Companys captive insurance operations. The results of the Companys captive insurance operations for 2007 include a $12 million charge related to a Hurricane Katrina trade disruption insurance settlement. Corporate expense decreased $199 million to $7 million due principally to a $345 million increase in realized securities gains principally resulting from sales of the Companys equity securities of Tyson Foods, Inc. and Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc. and a $103 million reduction in unallocated interest expense due principally to higher levels of invested funds and higher interest rates. These decreases were partially offset by a $207 million charge, compared to a $12 million credit in the prior year, related to the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations and a $46 million charge related to the repurchase of $400 million of the Companys outstanding debentures. Income taxes increased due principally to higher pretax earnings and the absence of a $36 million income tax credit in 2006 related to the recognition of federal and state income tax credits and adjustments resulting from the reconciliation of filed tax returns to the previously estimated tax provision. The Companys effective tax rate during 2007 was 31.5% and, after excluding the effect of the 2006 $36 million tax credit, was 31.2% for the prior year. The increase in the Companys effective tax rate was primarily due to changes in the geographic mix of pretax earnings. Liquidity and Capital Resources A Company objective is to have sufficient liquidity, balance sheet strength, and financial flexibility to fund the operating and capital requirements of a capital intensive agricultural based commodity business. At June 30, 2008, the Company had $1.3 billion of cash, cash equivalents, and short term marketable securities and a current ratio, defined as current assets divided by current liabilities, of 1.7 to 1. Included in working capital is $7.8 billion of readily marketable commodity inventories. Cash used in operating activities totaled $3.2 billion for the year compared to $303 million cash generated from operations last year. This change was primarily due to an increase in working capital requirements principally related to increased market prices and, to a lesser extent, increased quantities of agricultural commodity inventories, principally readily marketable commodity inventories, and increased receivables. Cash used in investing activities increased $1.5 billion for the year to $1.9 billion primarily due to increased capital expenditures and decreased proceeds from sales of businesses including the sale of the Companys equity interests in Tyson Foods, Inc., Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc. and Agricore United in 2007. Cash generated by financing activities was $5.2 billion compared to cash used in financing activities of $398 million last year. Net long term borrowings increased primarily as a result of the issuance in 2008 of approximately $3.1 billion of additional long term debt, including $500 million of debentures issued in December 2007, $700 million of notes issued in March 2008, and $1.75 billion of debentures in June 2008, compared to $1.15 billion of convertible senior notes issued in February 2007, partially offset by $480 million of reduced debt payments principally related to the Companys retirement of $400 million of debentures in 2007. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Capital resources were strengthened in 2008 as shown by the increase in the Companys net worth from $11.3 billion to $13.5 billion. The Companys ratio of long term debt to total capital (the sum of the Companys long term debt and shareholders equity) was 36% at June 30, 2008, and 30% at June 30, 2007. This ratio is a measure of the Companys long term liquidity and is an indicator of financial flexibility. The Company currently has $7.4 billion of commercial paper and commercial bank lines available to meet seasonal cash requirements of which $5.2 billion are committed and $2.2 billion are uncommitted. At June 30, 2008, the Company had $3.1 billion of short term debt outstanding. Standard & Poors, Moodys, and Fitch rate the Companys commercial paper as A 1, P 1, and F1, respectively, and rate the Companys long term debt as A, A2, and A, respectively. In addition to the cash flow generated from operations, the Company has access to equity and debt capital through numerous alternatives from public and private sources in domestic and international markets. The Company has outstanding $1.15 billion principal amount of convertible senior notes. As of June 30, 2008, none of the conditions permitting conversion of the notes had been satisfied. As of June 30, 2008, the market price of the Companys common stock was not greater than the exercise price of the purchased call options or warrants related to the convertible senior notes. In June 2008, the Company issued $1.75 billion of debentures as a component of Equity Units. The Equity Units are a combination of (a) debt and (b) forward contracts for the holder to purchase the Companys common stock. The purchase contracts obligate the holder to purchase from the Company, no later than June 1, 2011, for a price of $50 in cash, a certain number of shares, ranging from 1.0453 shares to 1.2544 shares, of the Companys common stock, based on a formula established in the contract. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements In the normal course of business, the Company enters into contracts and commitments which obligate the Company to make payments in the future. The following table sets forth the Companys significant future obligations by time period. Purchases include commodity based contracts entered into in the normal course of business, which are further described in Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, energy related purchase contracts entered into in the normal course of business, and other purchase obligations related to the Companys normal business activities. Where applicable, information included in the Companys consolidated financial statements and notes is cross referenced in this table. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Payments Due by Period Contractual Note Less than 1 3 3 5 More than Obligations Reference Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years (In millions) Purchases Inventories $ 24,230 $ 22,813 $ 1,200 $ 174 $ 43 Energy 952 502 302 80 68 Other 148 58 60 18 12 Total purchases 25,330 23,373 1,562 272 123 Short term debt Note 7 3,123 3,123 Long term debt Note 7 7,993 232 358 380 7,023 Estimated interest payments 9,639 511 808 758 7,562 Operating leases Note 12 1,364 403 402 239 320 Estimated pension and other postretirement plan contributions Note 13 1,217 90 204 229 694 Total $ 48,666 $ 27,732 $ 3,334 $ 1,878 $ 15,722 At June 30, 2008, the Company estimates it will spend approximately $2.5 billion over the next five years to complete currently approved capital projects and acquisitions which is not included in the table above. The Company is a limited partner in various private equity funds which invest primarily in emerging markets. At June 30, 2008, the Companys carrying value of these limited partnership investments was $129 million. The Company has future capital commitments related to these partnerships of $137 million and expects the majority of these additional capital commitments, if called for, to be funded by cash flows generated by the partnerships. The Company also has outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds of $500 million at June 30, 2008. In addition, the Company has entered into agreements, primarily debt guarantee agreements related to equity method investees, which could obligate the Company to make future payments. The Companys liability under these agreements arises only if the primary entity fails to perform its contractual obligation. The Company has collateral for a portion of these contingent obligations. At June 30, 2008, these contingent obligations totaled approximately $135 million. Amounts outstanding for the primary entity under these contingent obligations were $62 million at June 30, 2008. Critical Accounting Policies The process of preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the carrying values of the Companys assets and liabilities as well as the recognition of revenues and expenses. These estimates and judgments are based on the Companys historical experience and managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Certain of the Companys accounting policies are considered critical, as these policies are important to the depiction of the Companys financial statements and require significant or complex judgment by management. Management has discussed with the Companys Audit Committee the development, selection, disclosure, and application of these critical accounting policies. Following are the accounting policies management considers critical to the Companys financial statements. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Inventories and Derivatives Certain of the Companys merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, forward fixed price purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts are valued at estimated market values. These merchandisable agricultural commodities are freely traded, have quoted market prices, and may be sold without significant additional processing. Management estimates market value based on exchange quoted prices, adjusted for differences in local markets. Changes in the market values of these inventories and contracts are recognized in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. If management used different methods or factors to estimate market value, amounts reported as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. Additionally, if market conditions change subsequent to year end, amounts reported in future periods as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. The Company, from time to time, uses derivative contracts designated as cash flow hedges to fix the purchase price of anticipated volumes of commodities to be purchased and processed in a future month, to fix the purchase price of the Companys anticipated natural gas requirements for certain production facilities, and to fix the sales price of anticipated volumes of ethanol. The change in the market value of such derivative contracts has historically been, and is expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. If it is determined that the derivative instruments used are no longer effective at offsetting changes in the price of the hedged item, then the changes in the market value of these exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts would be recorded in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. Employee Benefit Plans The Company provides substantially all domestic employees and employees at certain international subsidiaries with pension benefits. The Company also provides substantially all domestic salaried employees with postretirement health care and life insurance benefits. In order to measure the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans, management makes several estimates and assumptions, including interest rates used to discount certain liabilities, rates of return on assets set aside to fund these plans, rates of compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and anticipated future health care costs. These estimates and assumptions are based on the Companys historical experience combined with managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Management also uses third party actuaries to assist in measuring the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans. If management used different estimates and assumptions regarding these plans, the funded status of the plans could vary significantly, and the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Income Taxes The Company frequently faces challenges from domestic and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company records reserves for estimates of potential additional tax owed by the Company. Deferred tax assets represent items to be used as tax deductions or credits in future tax returns, and the related tax benefit has already been recognized in the Companys income statement. Realization of certain deferred tax assets reflects the Companys tax planning strategies. Valuation allowances related to these deferred tax assets have been established to the extent the realization of the tax benefit is not probable. Based on managements evaluation of the Companys tax position, it is believed the amounts related to these tax exposures are appropriately accrued. To the extent the Company were to favorably resolve matters for which accruals have been established or be required to pay amounts in excess of the aforementioned reserves, the Companys effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be impacted. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and affiliated corporate joint ventures accounted for on the equity method are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by unpredictable factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned unpredictable factors, therefore, may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and profitability of the Companys asset base in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its factories. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment, technology, and companies related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. The Company evaluates goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives for impairment annually. Assets are written down after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these assets, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Valuation of Marketable Securities and Investments in Affiliates The Company classifies the majority of its marketable securities as available for sale and carries these securities at fair value. Investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings and are adjusted, where appropriate, for amortizable basis differences between the investment balance and the underlying net assets of the investee. For publicly traded securities, the fair value of the Companys investments is readily available based on quoted market prices. For non publicly traded securities, managements assessment of fair value is based on valuation methodologies including discounted cash flows and estimates of sales proceeds. In the event of a decline in fair value of an investment below carrying value, management may be required to determine if the decline in fair value is other than temporary. In evaluating the nature of a decline in the fair value of an investment, management considers the market conditions, trends of earnings, discounted cash flows, trading volumes, and other key measures of the investment as well as the Companys ability and intent to hold the investment. When such a decline in value is deemed to be other than temporary, an impairment loss is recognized in the current period operating results to the extent of the decline. See Notes 3 and 5 to the Companys consolidated financial statements for information regarding the Companys marketable securities and investments in affiliates. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these marketable securities, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in: commodity market prices as they relate to the Companys net commodity position, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and price of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to unpredictable factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. To reduce price risk caused by market fluctuations, the Company generally follows a policy of using exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts to minimize its net position of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories and forward cash purchase and sales contracts. The Company will also use exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the volatility of the relationship between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contracts defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company from time to time enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. A sensitivity analysis has been prepared to estimate the Companys exposure to market risk of its daily net commodity position. The Companys daily net commodity position consists of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, related purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts, including those contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements. The fair value of such daily net commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing each net position at quoted futures prices. Market risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in such prices. Actual results may differ. 2008 2007 Long/(Short) Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest position $ 1,260 $ 126 $ 703 $ 70 Lowest position (915 ) (92 ) (565 ) (57 ) Average position 251 25 180 18 The change in fair value of the average position for 2008 compared to 2007 was principally a result of increases in commodity prices and, to a lesser extent, quantities underlying the daily net commodity position. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) Currencies In order to reduce the risk of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, except for amounts permanently invested as described below, the Company follows a policy of entering into currency exchange forward contracts to mitigate its foreign currency risk related to transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currencies applicable to each of its various entities. The instruments used are forward contracts, swaps with banks, and exchange traded futures contracts. The changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $7.0 billion at June 30, 2008, and $5.4 billion at June 30, 2007. This increase is due to an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and appreciation of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar. The potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $695 million and $543 million for 2008 and 2007, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical .5% decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2008 2007 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 7,789 $ 4,862 Excess of fair value over carrying value 99 110 Market risk 308 232 The increase in fair value of long term debt in 2008 resulted principally from the Companys issuance of approximately $3.1 billion in long term debt in 2008. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Selling, general, and administrative expenses of $1.2 billion were comparable to 2006 and included $25 million of currency exchange rate increases. Excluding the impact of currency exchange rate increases, selling, general and administrative expenses decreased $23 million due principally to 2006 selling, general and administrative expenses including $20 million of severance costs associated with the closure of a citric acid plant. During 2007 and 2006, the Company issued option grants and restricted stock awards to officers and key employees pursuant to the Companys Long term Management Incentive Program. Certain officers and key employees of the Company receiving option grants and restricted stock awards were eligible for retirement. Compensation expense related to option grants and restricted stock awards issued to these retirement eligible employees is recognized in earnings on the date of grant. Selling, general, and administrative expense for 2007 and 2006 includes compensation expense related to option grants and restricted stock awards granted to retirement eligible employees of $30 million and $31 million, respectively. Other income net increased $1.0 billion primarily due to the $440 million Wilmar Gain, a $357 million gain on the sale of the Companys equity securities of Tyson Foods, Inc. and Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc., a $153 million gain on the sale of the Companys interest in Agricore United, and a $53 million gain on the sale of the Companys Arkady food ingredient business. Other income net also includes a $46 million charge related to the repurchase of $400 million of the Companys outstanding debentures in 2007. Excluding these items, other income net increased $73 million primarily due to a $120 million increase in equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates, and a $53 million increase in investment income, partially offset by a $69 million increase in interest expense and a $27 million reduction in gains on sales of long lived assets. The increase in equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates was primarily due to higher valuations of the Companys private equity fund investments and improved operating results of the Companys Asian oilseed ventures. Interest expense and investment income increased primarily due to increased average borrowing and investment levels. Operating profit by segment is as follows: 2007 2006 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing & Origination $ 414 $ 376 $ 38 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel & Other 202 140 62 Asia 523 53 470 Total Oilseeds Processing 1,139 569 570 Corn Processing Sweeteners & Starches 509 458 51 Bioproducts 596 443 153 Total Corn Processing 1,105 901 204 Agricultural Services Merchandising & Handling 382 94 288 Transportation 156 143 13 Total Agricultural Services 538 237 301 Other Wheat, Cocoa, & Malt 209 228 (19 ) Financial 170 126 44 Total Other 379 354 25 Total Segment Operating Profit 3,161 2,061 1,100 Corporate (7 ) (206 ) 199 Earnings Before Income Taxes $ 3,154 $ 1,855 $ 1,299 Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Oilseeds Processing operating profits increased $570 million to $1.1 billion due principally to the $440 million Wilmar Gain and improved market conditions in all geographic regions. North American processing results improved due principally to abundant oilseed supplies in the United States and good demand for vegetable oil and soybean meal. Vegetable oil values improved as the markets anticipated new demand from the developing United States biodiesel industry. North American processing results were also favorably impacted by lower plant operating costs resulting from improved capacity utilization. Asian joint venture results improved due to improved palm processing operating results partially offset by decreased soy crushing operating results. European processing results improved due principally to abundant oilseed supplies in Europe and strong demand for vegetable oil. The strong demand for vegetable oil is the result of strong biodiesel demand. These increases were partially offset by decreased biodiesel operating profits resulting from higher vegetable oil prices, increased market production capacity, and lower diesel fuel prices. South American processing results declined due principally to the $27 million credit for Brazilian transactional taxes in 2006. Excluding the impact of the credit for Brazilian transactional taxes, South American processing results improved due principally to increased fertilizer margins. The improvement in fertilizer margins was primarily due to higher average sales prices due to improved fertilizer demand combined with stable raw material costs. Operating profits for 2007 include a $6 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Operating profits for 2006 include a $14 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets and a $6 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47. Corn Processing operating profits increased $204 million to $1.1 billion due principally to higher average selling prices and lower energy costs, partially offset by lower ethanol sales volumes and higher net corn costs. Net corn costs increased approximately 60% during 2007 due to significant anticipated demand increases for corn resulting primarily from increasing corn derived ethanol industry capacity. Agricultural commodity market concerns regarding the expected decline in the ending 2006 corn crop carryover also contributed to the increase in corn costs. Sweeteners and Starches operating profits increased $51 million primarily due to higher average sales prices and lower energy costs. Sales prices increased due principally to good demand for sweetener and starch products. These increases were partially offset by increased net corn costs. Sweeteners and Starches operating profits for 2006 include a $5 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47. Bioproducts operating profits increased $153 million primarily due to higher ethanol average selling prices and lower energy costs, partially offset by increased net corn costs and lower ethanol sales volumes. Ethanol average sales prices increased due principally to strong demand from gasoline refiners and higher gasoline prices. Ethanol sales volumes decreased as 2006 sales volumes exceeded production due to the release of inventories built up in anticipation of refiners replacing MTBE with ethanol. Bioproducts operating results for 2007 include a $1 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Bioproducts operating results for 2006 include a $6 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets, a $2 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47, and $6 million of costs related to the closure of a citric acid plant. Agricultural Services operating profits increased $301 million to $538 million due principally to a $153 million gain from the sale of the Companys interest in Agricore United, a Canadian business which specialized in crop input, crop protection services, and grain marketing and merchandising. Excluding the Agricore United gain, Agricultural Services operating profits increased $148 million to $385 million due principally to improved global grain merchandising operating results and, to a lesser extent, improved transportation and North American origination operating results. Global grain merchandising results improved as regional production imbalances allowed the Company to capitalize on merchandising opportunities. North American river transportation operating results increased primarily due to increased barge freight rates created by strong demand for barge capacity. North American origination operating results improved due to good export demand for agricultural commodities and higher ocean freight rates. Agricultural Services operating profits for 2007 include a $12 million trade disruption insurance recovery related to Hurricane Katrina. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Other operating profits increased $25 million to $379 million. Wheat, Cocoa, and Malt operating profits decreased $19 million. Wheat operating profits include a $39 million gain on the sale of the Companys Arkady food ingredient business in 2007 and a $17 million gain from the sale of long lived assets in 2006. Excluding the effect of these one time gains, Wheat, Cocoa, and Malt operating profits declined $41 million primarily due to cocoa operating results declining from prior year levels and to a lesser extent, weaker equity earnings from our investment in Gruma S.A. partially offset by improved operating results of the Companys wheat flour processing operations. Cocoa processing operating results declined primarily due to increased industry production capacity which caused downward pressure on cocoa processing margins. Financial operating profits increased $44 million due principally to increased valuations of the Companys private equity fund investments and higher operating results of the Companys futures commission merchant business, partially offset by lower operating results of the Companys captive insurance operations. The results of the Companys captive insurance operations for 2007 include a $12 million charge related to a Hurricane Katrina trade disruption insurance settlement. Corporate expense decreased $199 million to $7 million due principally to a $345 million increase in realized securities gains principally resulting from sales of the Companys equity securities of Tyson Foods, Inc. and Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc. and a $103 million reduction in unallocated interest expense due principally to higher levels of invested funds and higher interest rates. These decreases were partially offset by a $207 million charge, compared to a $12 million credit in the prior year, related to the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations and a $46 million charge related to the repurchase of $400 million of the Companys outstanding debentures. Income taxes increased due principally to higher pretax earnings and the absence of a $36 million income tax credit in 2006 related to the recognition of federal and state income tax credits and adjustments resulting from the reconciliation of filed tax returns to the previously estimated tax provision. The Companys effective tax rate during 2007 was 31.5% and, after excluding the effect of the 2006 $36 million tax credit, was 31.2% for the prior year. The increase in the Companys effective tax rate was primarily due to changes in the geographic mix of pretax earnings. Liquidity and Capital Resources A Company objective is to have sufficient liquidity, balance sheet strength, and financial flexibility to fund the operating and capital requirements of a capital intensive agricultural based commodity business. At June 30, 2008, the Company had $1.3 billion of cash, cash equivalents, and short term marketable securities and a current ratio, defined as current assets divided by current liabilities, of 1.7 to 1. Included in working capital is $7.8 billion of readily marketable commodity inventories. Cash used in operating activities totaled $3.2 billion for the year compared to $303 million cash generated from operations last year. This change was primarily due to an increase in working capital requirements principally related to increased market prices and, to a lesser extent, increased quantities of agricultural commodity inventories, principally readily marketable commodity inventories, and increased receivables. Cash used in investing activities increased $1.5 billion for the year to $1.9 billion primarily due to increased capital expenditures and decreased proceeds from sales of businesses including the sale of the Companys equity interests in Tyson Foods, Inc., Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc. and Agricore United in 2007. Cash generated by financing activities was $5.2 billion compared to cash used in financing activities of $398 million last year. Net long term borrowings increased primarily as a result of the issuance in 2008 of approximately $3.1 billion of additional long term debt, including $500 million of debentures issued in December 2007, $700 million of notes issued in March 2008, and $1.75 billion of debentures in June 2008, compared to $1.15 billion of convertible senior notes issued in February 2007, partially offset by $480 million of reduced debt payments principally related to the Companys retirement of $400 million of debentures in 2007. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Capital resources were strengthened in 2008 as shown by the increase in the Companys net worth from $11.3 billion to $13.5 billion. The Companys ratio of long term debt to total capital (the sum of the Companys long term debt and shareholders equity) was 36% at June 30, 2008, and 30% at June 30, 2007. This ratio is a measure of the Companys long term liquidity and is an indicator of financial flexibility. The Company currently has $7.4 billion of commercial paper and commercial bank lines available to meet seasonal cash requirements of which $5.2 billion are committed and $2.2 billion are uncommitted. At June 30, 2008, the Company had $3.1 billion of short term debt outstanding. Standard & Poors, Moodys, and Fitch rate the Companys commercial paper as A 1, P 1, and F1, respectively, and rate the Companys long term debt as A, A2, and A, respectively. In addition to the cash flow generated from operations, the Company has access to equity and debt capital through numerous alternatives from public and private sources in domestic and international markets. The Company has outstanding $1.15 billion principal amount of convertible senior notes. As of June 30, 2008, none of the conditions permitting conversion of the notes had been satisfied. As of June 30, 2008, the market price of the Companys common stock was not greater than the exercise price of the purchased call options or warrants related to the convertible senior notes. In June 2008, the Company issued $1.75 billion of debentures as a component of Equity Units. The Equity Units are a combination of (a) debt and (b) forward contracts for the holder to purchase the Companys common stock. The purchase contracts obligate the holder to purchase from the Company, no later than June 1, 2011, for a price of $50 in cash, a certain number of shares, ranging from 1.0453 shares to 1.2544 shares, of the Companys common stock, based on a formula established in the contract. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements In the normal course of business, the Company enters into contracts and commitments which obligate the Company to make payments in the future. The following table sets forth the Companys significant future obligations by time period. Purchases include commodity based contracts entered into in the normal course of business, which are further described in Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, energy related purchase contracts entered into in the normal course of business, and other purchase obligations related to the Companys normal business activities. Where applicable, information included in the Companys consolidated financial statements and notes is cross referenced in this table. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Payments Due by Period Contractual Note Less than 1 3 3 5 More than Obligations Reference Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years (In millions) Purchases Inventories $ 24,230 $ 22,813 $ 1,200 $ 174 $ 43 Energy 952 502 302 80 68 Other 148 58 60 18 12 Total purchases 25,330 23,373 1,562 272 123 Short term debt Note 7 3,123 3,123 Long term debt Note 7 7,993 232 358 380 7,023 Estimated interest payments 9,639 511 808 758 7,562 Operating leases Note 12 1,364 403 402 239 320 Estimated pension and other postretirement plan contributions Note 13 1,217 90 204 229 694 Total $ 48,666 $ 27,732 $ 3,334 $ 1,878 $ 15,722 At June 30, 2008, the Company estimates it will spend approximately $2.5 billion over the next five years to complete currently approved capital projects and acquisitions which is not included in the table above. The Company is a limited partner in various private equity funds which invest primarily in emerging markets. At June 30, 2008, the Companys carrying value of these limited partnership investments was $129 million. The Company has future capital commitments related to these partnerships of $137 million and expects the majority of these additional capital commitments, if called for, to be funded by cash flows generated by the partnerships. The Company also has outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds of $500 million at June 30, 2008. In addition, the Company has entered into agreements, primarily debt guarantee agreements related to equity method investees, which could obligate the Company to make future payments. The Companys liability under these agreements arises only if the primary entity fails to perform its contractual obligation. The Company has collateral for a portion of these contingent obligations. At June 30, 2008, these contingent obligations totaled approximately $135 million. Amounts outstanding for the primary entity under these contingent obligations were $62 million at June 30, 2008. Critical Accounting Policies The process of preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the carrying values of the Companys assets and liabilities as well as the recognition of revenues and expenses. These estimates and judgments are based on the Companys historical experience and managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Certain of the Companys accounting policies are considered critical, as these policies are important to the depiction of the Companys financial statements and require significant or complex judgment by management. Management has discussed with the Companys Audit Committee the development, selection, disclosure, and application of these critical accounting policies. Following are the accounting policies management considers critical to the Companys financial statements. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Inventories and Derivatives Certain of the Companys merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, forward fixed price purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts are valued at estimated market values. These merchandisable agricultural commodities are freely traded, have quoted market prices, and may be sold without significant additional processing. Management estimates market value based on exchange quoted prices, adjusted for differences in local markets. Changes in the market values of these inventories and contracts are recognized in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. If management used different methods or factors to estimate market value, amounts reported as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. Additionally, if market conditions change subsequent to year end, amounts reported in future periods as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. The Company, from time to time, uses derivative contracts designated as cash flow hedges to fix the purchase price of anticipated volumes of commodities to be purchased and processed in a future month, to fix the purchase price of the Companys anticipated natural gas requirements for certain production facilities, and to fix the sales price of anticipated volumes of ethanol. The change in the market value of such derivative contracts has historically been, and is expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. If it is determined that the derivative instruments used are no longer effective at offsetting changes in the price of the hedged item, then the changes in the market value of these exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts would be recorded in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. Employee Benefit Plans The Company provides substantially all domestic employees and employees at certain international subsidiaries with pension benefits. The Company also provides substantially all domestic salaried employees with postretirement health care and life insurance benefits. In order to measure the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans, management makes several estimates and assumptions, including interest rates used to discount certain liabilities, rates of return on assets set aside to fund these plans, rates of compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and anticipated future health care costs. These estimates and assumptions are based on the Companys historical experience combined with managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Management also uses third party actuaries to assist in measuring the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans. If management used different estimates and assumptions regarding these plans, the funded status of the plans could vary significantly, and the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Income Taxes The Company frequently faces challenges from domestic and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company records reserves for estimates of potential additional tax owed by the Company. Deferred tax assets represent items to be used as tax deductions or credits in future tax returns, and the related tax benefit has already been recognized in the Companys income statement. Realization of certain deferred tax assets reflects the Companys tax planning strategies. Valuation allowances related to these deferred tax assets have been established to the extent the realization of the tax benefit is not probable. Based on managements evaluation of the Companys tax position, it is believed the amounts related to these tax exposures are appropriately accrued. To the extent the Company were to favorably resolve matters for which accruals have been established or be required to pay amounts in excess of the aforementioned reserves, the Companys effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be impacted. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and affiliated corporate joint ventures accounted for on the equity method are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by unpredictable factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned unpredictable factors, therefore, may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and profitability of the Companys asset base in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its factories. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment, technology, and companies related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. The Company evaluates goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives for impairment annually. Assets are written down after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these assets, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Valuation of Marketable Securities and Investments in Affiliates The Company classifies the majority of its marketable securities as available for sale and carries these securities at fair value. Investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings and are adjusted, where appropriate, for amortizable basis differences between the investment balance and the underlying net assets of the investee. For publicly traded securities, the fair value of the Companys investments is readily available based on quoted market prices. For non publicly traded securities, managements assessment of fair value is based on valuation methodologies including discounted cash flows and estimates of sales proceeds. In the event of a decline in fair value of an investment below carrying value, management may be required to determine if the decline in fair value is other than temporary. In evaluating the nature of a decline in the fair value of an investment, management considers the market conditions, trends of earnings, discounted cash flows, trading volumes, and other key measures of the investment as well as the Companys ability and intent to hold the investment. When such a decline in value is deemed to be other than temporary, an impairment loss is recognized in the current period operating results to the extent of the decline. See Notes 3 and 5 to the Companys consolidated financial statements for information regarding the Companys marketable securities and investments in affiliates. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these marketable securities, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in: commodity market prices as they relate to the Companys net commodity position, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and price of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to unpredictable factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. To reduce price risk caused by market fluctuations, the Company generally follows a policy of using exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts to minimize its net position of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories and forward cash purchase and sales contracts. The Company will also use exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the volatility of the relationship between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contracts defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company from time to time enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. A sensitivity analysis has been prepared to estimate the Companys exposure to market risk of its daily net commodity position. The Companys daily net commodity position consists of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, related purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts, including those contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements. The fair value of such daily net commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing each net position at quoted futures prices. Market risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in such prices. Actual results may differ. 2008 2007 Long/(Short) Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest position $ 1,260 $ 126 $ 703 $ 70 Lowest position (915 ) (92 ) (565 ) (57 ) Average position 251 25 180 18 The change in fair value of the average position for 2008 compared to 2007 was principally a result of increases in commodity prices and, to a lesser extent, quantities underlying the daily net commodity position. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) Currencies In order to reduce the risk of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, except for amounts permanently invested as described below, the Company follows a policy of entering into currency exchange forward contracts to mitigate its foreign currency risk related to transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currencies applicable to each of its various entities. The instruments used are forward contracts, swaps with banks, and exchange traded futures contracts. The changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $7.0 billion at June 30, 2008, and $5.4 billion at June 30, 2007. This increase is due to an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and appreciation of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar. The potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $695 million and $543 million for 2008 and 2007, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical .5% decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2008 2007 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 7,789 $ 4,862 Excess of fair value over carrying value 99 110 Market risk 308 232 The increase in fair value of long term debt in 2008 resulted principally from the Companys issuance of approximately $3.1 billion in long term debt in 2008. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Oilseeds Processing operating profits increased $570 million to $1.1 billion due principally to the $440 million Wilmar Gain and improved market conditions in all geographic regions. North American processing results improved due principally to abundant oilseed supplies in the United States and good demand for vegetable oil and soybean meal. Vegetable oil values improved as the markets anticipated new demand from the developing United States biodiesel industry. North American processing results were also favorably impacted by lower plant operating costs resulting from improved capacity utilization. Asian joint venture results improved due to improved palm processing operating results partially offset by decreased soy crushing operating results. European processing results improved due principally to abundant oilseed supplies in Europe and strong demand for vegetable oil. The strong demand for vegetable oil is the result of strong biodiesel demand. These increases were partially offset by decreased biodiesel operating profits resulting from higher vegetable oil prices, increased market production capacity, and lower diesel fuel prices. South American processing results declined due principally to the $27 million credit for Brazilian transactional taxes in 2006. Excluding the impact of the credit for Brazilian transactional taxes, South American processing results improved due principally to increased fertilizer margins. The improvement in fertilizer margins was primarily due to higher average sales prices due to improved fertilizer demand combined with stable raw material costs. Operating profits for 2007 include a $6 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Operating profits for 2006 include a $14 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets and a $6 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47. Corn Processing operating profits increased $204 million to $1.1 billion due principally to higher average selling prices and lower energy costs, partially offset by lower ethanol sales volumes and higher net corn costs. Net corn costs increased approximately 60% during 2007 due to significant anticipated demand increases for corn resulting primarily from increasing corn derived ethanol industry capacity. Agricultural commodity market concerns regarding the expected decline in the ending 2006 corn crop carryover also contributed to the increase in corn costs. Sweeteners and Starches operating profits increased $51 million primarily due to higher average sales prices and lower energy costs. Sales prices increased due principally to good demand for sweetener and starch products. These increases were partially offset by increased net corn costs. Sweeteners and Starches operating profits for 2006 include a $5 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47. Bioproducts operating profits increased $153 million primarily due to higher ethanol average selling prices and lower energy costs, partially offset by increased net corn costs and lower ethanol sales volumes. Ethanol average sales prices increased due principally to strong demand from gasoline refiners and higher gasoline prices. Ethanol sales volumes decreased as 2006 sales volumes exceeded production due to the release of inventories built up in anticipation of refiners replacing MTBE with ethanol. Bioproducts operating results for 2007 include a $1 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets. Bioproducts operating results for 2006 include a $6 million charge for abandonment and write down of long lived assets, a $2 million charge related to the adoption of FIN 47, and $6 million of costs related to the closure of a citric acid plant. Agricultural Services operating profits increased $301 million to $538 million due principally to a $153 million gain from the sale of the Companys interest in Agricore United, a Canadian business which specialized in crop input, crop protection services, and grain marketing and merchandising. Excluding the Agricore United gain, Agricultural Services operating profits increased $148 million to $385 million due principally to improved global grain merchandising operating results and, to a lesser extent, improved transportation and North American origination operating results. Global grain merchandising results improved as regional production imbalances allowed the Company to capitalize on merchandising opportunities. North American river transportation operating results increased primarily due to increased barge freight rates created by strong demand for barge capacity. North American origination operating results improved due to good export demand for agricultural commodities and higher ocean freight rates. Agricultural Services operating profits for 2007 include a $12 million trade disruption insurance recovery related to Hurricane Katrina. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Other operating profits increased $25 million to $379 million. Wheat, Cocoa, and Malt operating profits decreased $19 million. Wheat operating profits include a $39 million gain on the sale of the Companys Arkady food ingredient business in 2007 and a $17 million gain from the sale of long lived assets in 2006. Excluding the effect of these one time gains, Wheat, Cocoa, and Malt operating profits declined $41 million primarily due to cocoa operating results declining from prior year levels and to a lesser extent, weaker equity earnings from our investment in Gruma S.A. partially offset by improved operating results of the Companys wheat flour processing operations. Cocoa processing operating results declined primarily due to increased industry production capacity which caused downward pressure on cocoa processing margins. Financial operating profits increased $44 million due principally to increased valuations of the Companys private equity fund investments and higher operating results of the Companys futures commission merchant business, partially offset by lower operating results of the Companys captive insurance operations. The results of the Companys captive insurance operations for 2007 include a $12 million charge related to a Hurricane Katrina trade disruption insurance settlement. Corporate expense decreased $199 million to $7 million due principally to a $345 million increase in realized securities gains principally resulting from sales of the Companys equity securities of Tyson Foods, Inc. and Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc. and a $103 million reduction in unallocated interest expense due principally to higher levels of invested funds and higher interest rates. These decreases were partially offset by a $207 million charge, compared to a $12 million credit in the prior year, related to the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations and a $46 million charge related to the repurchase of $400 million of the Companys outstanding debentures. Income taxes increased due principally to higher pretax earnings and the absence of a $36 million income tax credit in 2006 related to the recognition of federal and state income tax credits and adjustments resulting from the reconciliation of filed tax returns to the previously estimated tax provision. The Companys effective tax rate during 2007 was 31.5% and, after excluding the effect of the 2006 $36 million tax credit, was 31.2% for the prior year. The increase in the Companys effective tax rate was primarily due to changes in the geographic mix of pretax earnings. Liquidity and Capital Resources A Company objective is to have sufficient liquidity, balance sheet strength, and financial flexibility to fund the operating and capital requirements of a capital intensive agricultural based commodity business. At June 30, 2008, the Company had $1.3 billion of cash, cash equivalents, and short term marketable securities and a current ratio, defined as current assets divided by current liabilities, of 1.7 to 1. Included in working capital is $7.8 billion of readily marketable commodity inventories. Cash used in operating activities totaled $3.2 billion for the year compared to $303 million cash generated from operations last year. This change was primarily due to an increase in working capital requirements principally related to increased market prices and, to a lesser extent, increased quantities of agricultural commodity inventories, principally readily marketable commodity inventories, and increased receivables. Cash used in investing activities increased $1.5 billion for the year to $1.9 billion primarily due to increased capital expenditures and decreased proceeds from sales of businesses including the sale of the Companys equity interests in Tyson Foods, Inc., Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc. and Agricore United in 2007. Cash generated by financing activities was $5.2 billion compared to cash used in financing activities of $398 million last year. Net long term borrowings increased primarily as a result of the issuance in 2008 of approximately $3.1 billion of additional long term debt, including $500 million of debentures issued in December 2007, $700 million of notes issued in March 2008, and $1.75 billion of debentures in June 2008, compared to $1.15 billion of convertible senior notes issued in February 2007, partially offset by $480 million of reduced debt payments principally related to the Companys retirement of $400 million of debentures in 2007. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Capital resources were strengthened in 2008 as shown by the increase in the Companys net worth from $11.3 billion to $13.5 billion. The Companys ratio of long term debt to total capital (the sum of the Companys long term debt and shareholders equity) was 36% at June 30, 2008, and 30% at June 30, 2007. This ratio is a measure of the Companys long term liquidity and is an indicator of financial flexibility. The Company currently has $7.4 billion of commercial paper and commercial bank lines available to meet seasonal cash requirements of which $5.2 billion are committed and $2.2 billion are uncommitted. At June 30, 2008, the Company had $3.1 billion of short term debt outstanding. Standard & Poors, Moodys, and Fitch rate the Companys commercial paper as A 1, P 1, and F1, respectively, and rate the Companys long term debt as A, A2, and A, respectively. In addition to the cash flow generated from operations, the Company has access to equity and debt capital through numerous alternatives from public and private sources in domestic and international markets. The Company has outstanding $1.15 billion principal amount of convertible senior notes. As of June 30, 2008, none of the conditions permitting conversion of the notes had been satisfied. As of June 30, 2008, the market price of the Companys common stock was not greater than the exercise price of the purchased call options or warrants related to the convertible senior notes. In June 2008, the Company issued $1.75 billion of debentures as a component of Equity Units. The Equity Units are a combination of (a) debt and (b) forward contracts for the holder to purchase the Companys common stock. The purchase contracts obligate the holder to purchase from the Company, no later than June 1, 2011, for a price of $50 in cash, a certain number of shares, ranging from 1.0453 shares to 1.2544 shares, of the Companys common stock, based on a formula established in the contract. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements In the normal course of business, the Company enters into contracts and commitments which obligate the Company to make payments in the future. The following table sets forth the Companys significant future obligations by time period. Purchases include commodity based contracts entered into in the normal course of business, which are further described in Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, energy related purchase contracts entered into in the normal course of business, and other purchase obligations related to the Companys normal business activities. Where applicable, information included in the Companys consolidated financial statements and notes is cross referenced in this table. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Payments Due by Period Contractual Note Less than 1 3 3 5 More than Obligations Reference Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years (In millions) Purchases Inventories $ 24,230 $ 22,813 $ 1,200 $ 174 $ 43 Energy 952 502 302 80 68 Other 148 58 60 18 12 Total purchases 25,330 23,373 1,562 272 123 Short term debt Note 7 3,123 3,123 Long term debt Note 7 7,993 232 358 380 7,023 Estimated interest payments 9,639 511 808 758 7,562 Operating leases Note 12 1,364 403 402 239 320 Estimated pension and other postretirement plan contributions Note 13 1,217 90 204 229 694 Total $ 48,666 $ 27,732 $ 3,334 $ 1,878 $ 15,722 At June 30, 2008, the Company estimates it will spend approximately $2.5 billion over the next five years to complete currently approved capital projects and acquisitions which is not included in the table above. The Company is a limited partner in various private equity funds which invest primarily in emerging markets. At June 30, 2008, the Companys carrying value of these limited partnership investments was $129 million. The Company has future capital commitments related to these partnerships of $137 million and expects the majority of these additional capital commitments, if called for, to be funded by cash flows generated by the partnerships. The Company also has outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds of $500 million at June 30, 2008. In addition, the Company has entered into agreements, primarily debt guarantee agreements related to equity method investees, which could obligate the Company to make future payments. The Companys liability under these agreements arises only if the primary entity fails to perform its contractual obligation. The Company has collateral for a portion of these contingent obligations. At June 30, 2008, these contingent obligations totaled approximately $135 million. Amounts outstanding for the primary entity under these contingent obligations were $62 million at June 30, 2008. Critical Accounting Policies The process of preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the carrying values of the Companys assets and liabilities as well as the recognition of revenues and expenses. These estimates and judgments are based on the Companys historical experience and managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Certain of the Companys accounting policies are considered critical, as these policies are important to the depiction of the Companys financial statements and require significant or complex judgment by management. Management has discussed with the Companys Audit Committee the development, selection, disclosure, and application of these critical accounting policies. Following are the accounting policies management considers critical to the Companys financial statements. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Inventories and Derivatives Certain of the Companys merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, forward fixed price purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts are valued at estimated market values. These merchandisable agricultural commodities are freely traded, have quoted market prices, and may be sold without significant additional processing. Management estimates market value based on exchange quoted prices, adjusted for differences in local markets. Changes in the market values of these inventories and contracts are recognized in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. If management used different methods or factors to estimate market value, amounts reported as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. Additionally, if market conditions change subsequent to year end, amounts reported in future periods as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. The Company, from time to time, uses derivative contracts designated as cash flow hedges to fix the purchase price of anticipated volumes of commodities to be purchased and processed in a future month, to fix the purchase price of the Companys anticipated natural gas requirements for certain production facilities, and to fix the sales price of anticipated volumes of ethanol. The change in the market value of such derivative contracts has historically been, and is expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. If it is determined that the derivative instruments used are no longer effective at offsetting changes in the price of the hedged item, then the changes in the market value of these exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts would be recorded in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. Employee Benefit Plans The Company provides substantially all domestic employees and employees at certain international subsidiaries with pension benefits. The Company also provides substantially all domestic salaried employees with postretirement health care and life insurance benefits. In order to measure the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans, management makes several estimates and assumptions, including interest rates used to discount certain liabilities, rates of return on assets set aside to fund these plans, rates of compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and anticipated future health care costs. These estimates and assumptions are based on the Companys historical experience combined with managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Management also uses third party actuaries to assist in measuring the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans. If management used different estimates and assumptions regarding these plans, the funded status of the plans could vary significantly, and the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Income Taxes The Company frequently faces challenges from domestic and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company records reserves for estimates of potential additional tax owed by the Company. Deferred tax assets represent items to be used as tax deductions or credits in future tax returns, and the related tax benefit has already been recognized in the Companys income statement. Realization of certain deferred tax assets reflects the Companys tax planning strategies. Valuation allowances related to these deferred tax assets have been established to the extent the realization of the tax benefit is not probable. Based on managements evaluation of the Companys tax position, it is believed the amounts related to these tax exposures are appropriately accrued. To the extent the Company were to favorably resolve matters for which accruals have been established or be required to pay amounts in excess of the aforementioned reserves, the Companys effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be impacted. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and affiliated corporate joint ventures accounted for on the equity method are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by unpredictable factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned unpredictable factors, therefore, may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and profitability of the Companys asset base in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its factories. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment, technology, and companies related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. The Company evaluates goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives for impairment annually. Assets are written down after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these assets, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Valuation of Marketable Securities and Investments in Affiliates The Company classifies the majority of its marketable securities as available for sale and carries these securities at fair value. Investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings and are adjusted, where appropriate, for amortizable basis differences between the investment balance and the underlying net assets of the investee. For publicly traded securities, the fair value of the Companys investments is readily available based on quoted market prices. For non publicly traded securities, managements assessment of fair value is based on valuation methodologies including discounted cash flows and estimates of sales proceeds. In the event of a decline in fair value of an investment below carrying value, management may be required to determine if the decline in fair value is other than temporary. In evaluating the nature of a decline in the fair value of an investment, management considers the market conditions, trends of earnings, discounted cash flows, trading volumes, and other key measures of the investment as well as the Companys ability and intent to hold the investment. When such a decline in value is deemed to be other than temporary, an impairment loss is recognized in the current period operating results to the extent of the decline. See Notes 3 and 5 to the Companys consolidated financial statements for information regarding the Companys marketable securities and investments in affiliates. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these marketable securities, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in: commodity market prices as they relate to the Companys net commodity position, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and price of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to unpredictable factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. To reduce price risk caused by market fluctuations, the Company generally follows a policy of using exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts to minimize its net position of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories and forward cash purchase and sales contracts. The Company will also use exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the volatility of the relationship between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contracts defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company from time to time enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. A sensitivity analysis has been prepared to estimate the Companys exposure to market risk of its daily net commodity position. The Companys daily net commodity position consists of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, related purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts, including those contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements. The fair value of such daily net commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing each net position at quoted futures prices. Market risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in such prices. Actual results may differ. 2008 2007 Long/(Short) Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest position $ 1,260 $ 126 $ 703 $ 70 Lowest position (915 ) (92 ) (565 ) (57 ) Average position 251 25 180 18 The change in fair value of the average position for 2008 compared to 2007 was principally a result of increases in commodity prices and, to a lesser extent, quantities underlying the daily net commodity position. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) Currencies In order to reduce the risk of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, except for amounts permanently invested as described below, the Company follows a policy of entering into currency exchange forward contracts to mitigate its foreign currency risk related to transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currencies applicable to each of its various entities. The instruments used are forward contracts, swaps with banks, and exchange traded futures contracts. The changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $7.0 billion at June 30, 2008, and $5.4 billion at June 30, 2007. This increase is due to an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and appreciation of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar. The potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $695 million and $543 million for 2008 and 2007, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical .5% decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2008 2007 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 7,789 $ 4,862 Excess of fair value over carrying value 99 110 Market risk 308 232 The increase in fair value of long term debt in 2008 resulted principally from the Companys issuance of approximately $3.1 billion in long term debt in 2008. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Other operating profits increased $25 million to $379 million. Wheat, Cocoa, and Malt operating profits decreased $19 million. Wheat operating profits include a $39 million gain on the sale of the Companys Arkady food ingredient business in 2007 and a $17 million gain from the sale of long lived assets in 2006. Excluding the effect of these one time gains, Wheat, Cocoa, and Malt operating profits declined $41 million primarily due to cocoa operating results declining from prior year levels and to a lesser extent, weaker equity earnings from our investment in Gruma S.A. partially offset by improved operating results of the Companys wheat flour processing operations. Cocoa processing operating results declined primarily due to increased industry production capacity which caused downward pressure on cocoa processing margins. Financial operating profits increased $44 million due principally to increased valuations of the Companys private equity fund investments and higher operating results of the Companys futures commission merchant business, partially offset by lower operating results of the Companys captive insurance operations. The results of the Companys captive insurance operations for 2007 include a $12 million charge related to a Hurricane Katrina trade disruption insurance settlement. Corporate expense decreased $199 million to $7 million due principally to a $345 million increase in realized securities gains principally resulting from sales of the Companys equity securities of Tyson Foods, Inc. and Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc. and a $103 million reduction in unallocated interest expense due principally to higher levels of invested funds and higher interest rates. These decreases were partially offset by a $207 million charge, compared to a $12 million credit in the prior year, related to the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations and a $46 million charge related to the repurchase of $400 million of the Companys outstanding debentures. Income taxes increased due principally to higher pretax earnings and the absence of a $36 million income tax credit in 2006 related to the recognition of federal and state income tax credits and adjustments resulting from the reconciliation of filed tax returns to the previously estimated tax provision. The Companys effective tax rate during 2007 was 31.5% and, after excluding the effect of the 2006 $36 million tax credit, was 31.2% for the prior year. The increase in the Companys effective tax rate was primarily due to changes in the geographic mix of pretax earnings. Liquidity and Capital Resources A Company objective is to have sufficient liquidity, balance sheet strength, and financial flexibility to fund the operating and capital requirements of a capital intensive agricultural based commodity business. At June 30, 2008, the Company had $1.3 billion of cash, cash equivalents, and short term marketable securities and a current ratio, defined as current assets divided by current liabilities, of 1.7 to 1. Included in working capital is $7.8 billion of readily marketable commodity inventories. Cash used in operating activities totaled $3.2 billion for the year compared to $303 million cash generated from operations last year. This change was primarily due to an increase in working capital requirements principally related to increased market prices and, to a lesser extent, increased quantities of agricultural commodity inventories, principally readily marketable commodity inventories, and increased receivables. Cash used in investing activities increased $1.5 billion for the year to $1.9 billion primarily due to increased capital expenditures and decreased proceeds from sales of businesses including the sale of the Companys equity interests in Tyson Foods, Inc., Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc. and Agricore United in 2007. Cash generated by financing activities was $5.2 billion compared to cash used in financing activities of $398 million last year. Net long term borrowings increased primarily as a result of the issuance in 2008 of approximately $3.1 billion of additional long term debt, including $500 million of debentures issued in December 2007, $700 million of notes issued in March 2008, and $1.75 billion of debentures in June 2008, compared to $1.15 billion of convertible senior notes issued in February 2007, partially offset by $480 million of reduced debt payments principally related to the Companys retirement of $400 million of debentures in 2007. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Capital resources were strengthened in 2008 as shown by the increase in the Companys net worth from $11.3 billion to $13.5 billion. The Companys ratio of long term debt to total capital (the sum of the Companys long term debt and shareholders equity) was 36% at June 30, 2008, and 30% at June 30, 2007. This ratio is a measure of the Companys long term liquidity and is an indicator of financial flexibility. The Company currently has $7.4 billion of commercial paper and commercial bank lines available to meet seasonal cash requirements of which $5.2 billion are committed and $2.2 billion are uncommitted. At June 30, 2008, the Company had $3.1 billion of short term debt outstanding. Standard & Poors, Moodys, and Fitch rate the Companys commercial paper as A 1, P 1, and F1, respectively, and rate the Companys long term debt as A, A2, and A, respectively. In addition to the cash flow generated from operations, the Company has access to equity and debt capital through numerous alternatives from public and private sources in domestic and international markets. The Company has outstanding $1.15 billion principal amount of convertible senior notes. As of June 30, 2008, none of the conditions permitting conversion of the notes had been satisfied. As of June 30, 2008, the market price of the Companys common stock was not greater than the exercise price of the purchased call options or warrants related to the convertible senior notes. In June 2008, the Company issued $1.75 billion of debentures as a component of Equity Units. The Equity Units are a combination of (a) debt and (b) forward contracts for the holder to purchase the Companys common stock. The purchase contracts obligate the holder to purchase from the Company, no later than June 1, 2011, for a price of $50 in cash, a certain number of shares, ranging from 1.0453 shares to 1.2544 shares, of the Companys common stock, based on a formula established in the contract. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements In the normal course of business, the Company enters into contracts and commitments which obligate the Company to make payments in the future. The following table sets forth the Companys significant future obligations by time period. Purchases include commodity based contracts entered into in the normal course of business, which are further described in Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, energy related purchase contracts entered into in the normal course of business, and other purchase obligations related to the Companys normal business activities. Where applicable, information included in the Companys consolidated financial statements and notes is cross referenced in this table. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Payments Due by Period Contractual Note Less than 1 3 3 5 More than Obligations Reference Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years (In millions) Purchases Inventories $ 24,230 $ 22,813 $ 1,200 $ 174 $ 43 Energy 952 502 302 80 68 Other 148 58 60 18 12 Total purchases 25,330 23,373 1,562 272 123 Short term debt Note 7 3,123 3,123 Long term debt Note 7 7,993 232 358 380 7,023 Estimated interest payments 9,639 511 808 758 7,562 Operating leases Note 12 1,364 403 402 239 320 Estimated pension and other postretirement plan contributions Note 13 1,217 90 204 229 694 Total $ 48,666 $ 27,732 $ 3,334 $ 1,878 $ 15,722 At June 30, 2008, the Company estimates it will spend approximately $2.5 billion over the next five years to complete currently approved capital projects and acquisitions which is not included in the table above. The Company is a limited partner in various private equity funds which invest primarily in emerging markets. At June 30, 2008, the Companys carrying value of these limited partnership investments was $129 million. The Company has future capital commitments related to these partnerships of $137 million and expects the majority of these additional capital commitments, if called for, to be funded by cash flows generated by the partnerships. The Company also has outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds of $500 million at June 30, 2008. In addition, the Company has entered into agreements, primarily debt guarantee agreements related to equity method investees, which could obligate the Company to make future payments. The Companys liability under these agreements arises only if the primary entity fails to perform its contractual obligation. The Company has collateral for a portion of these contingent obligations. At June 30, 2008, these contingent obligations totaled approximately $135 million. Amounts outstanding for the primary entity under these contingent obligations were $62 million at June 30, 2008. Critical Accounting Policies The process of preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the carrying values of the Companys assets and liabilities as well as the recognition of revenues and expenses. These estimates and judgments are based on the Companys historical experience and managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Certain of the Companys accounting policies are considered critical, as these policies are important to the depiction of the Companys financial statements and require significant or complex judgment by management. Management has discussed with the Companys Audit Committee the development, selection, disclosure, and application of these critical accounting policies. Following are the accounting policies management considers critical to the Companys financial statements. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Inventories and Derivatives Certain of the Companys merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, forward fixed price purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts are valued at estimated market values. These merchandisable agricultural commodities are freely traded, have quoted market prices, and may be sold without significant additional processing. Management estimates market value based on exchange quoted prices, adjusted for differences in local markets. Changes in the market values of these inventories and contracts are recognized in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. If management used different methods or factors to estimate market value, amounts reported as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. Additionally, if market conditions change subsequent to year end, amounts reported in future periods as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. The Company, from time to time, uses derivative contracts designated as cash flow hedges to fix the purchase price of anticipated volumes of commodities to be purchased and processed in a future month, to fix the purchase price of the Companys anticipated natural gas requirements for certain production facilities, and to fix the sales price of anticipated volumes of ethanol. The change in the market value of such derivative contracts has historically been, and is expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. If it is determined that the derivative instruments used are no longer effective at offsetting changes in the price of the hedged item, then the changes in the market value of these exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts would be recorded in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. Employee Benefit Plans The Company provides substantially all domestic employees and employees at certain international subsidiaries with pension benefits. The Company also provides substantially all domestic salaried employees with postretirement health care and life insurance benefits. In order to measure the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans, management makes several estimates and assumptions, including interest rates used to discount certain liabilities, rates of return on assets set aside to fund these plans, rates of compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and anticipated future health care costs. These estimates and assumptions are based on the Companys historical experience combined with managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Management also uses third party actuaries to assist in measuring the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans. If management used different estimates and assumptions regarding these plans, the funded status of the plans could vary significantly, and the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Income Taxes The Company frequently faces challenges from domestic and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company records reserves for estimates of potential additional tax owed by the Company. Deferred tax assets represent items to be used as tax deductions or credits in future tax returns, and the related tax benefit has already been recognized in the Companys income statement. Realization of certain deferred tax assets reflects the Companys tax planning strategies. Valuation allowances related to these deferred tax assets have been established to the extent the realization of the tax benefit is not probable. Based on managements evaluation of the Companys tax position, it is believed the amounts related to these tax exposures are appropriately accrued. To the extent the Company were to favorably resolve matters for which accruals have been established or be required to pay amounts in excess of the aforementioned reserves, the Companys effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be impacted. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and affiliated corporate joint ventures accounted for on the equity method are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by unpredictable factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned unpredictable factors, therefore, may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and profitability of the Companys asset base in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its factories. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment, technology, and companies related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. The Company evaluates goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives for impairment annually. Assets are written down after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these assets, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Valuation of Marketable Securities and Investments in Affiliates The Company classifies the majority of its marketable securities as available for sale and carries these securities at fair value. Investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings and are adjusted, where appropriate, for amortizable basis differences between the investment balance and the underlying net assets of the investee. For publicly traded securities, the fair value of the Companys investments is readily available based on quoted market prices. For non publicly traded securities, managements assessment of fair value is based on valuation methodologies including discounted cash flows and estimates of sales proceeds. In the event of a decline in fair value of an investment below carrying value, management may be required to determine if the decline in fair value is other than temporary. In evaluating the nature of a decline in the fair value of an investment, management considers the market conditions, trends of earnings, discounted cash flows, trading volumes, and other key measures of the investment as well as the Companys ability and intent to hold the investment. When such a decline in value is deemed to be other than temporary, an impairment loss is recognized in the current period operating results to the extent of the decline. See Notes 3 and 5 to the Companys consolidated financial statements for information regarding the Companys marketable securities and investments in affiliates. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these marketable securities, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in: commodity market prices as they relate to the Companys net commodity position, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and price of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to unpredictable factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. To reduce price risk caused by market fluctuations, the Company generally follows a policy of using exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts to minimize its net position of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories and forward cash purchase and sales contracts. The Company will also use exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the volatility of the relationship between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contracts defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company from time to time enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. A sensitivity analysis has been prepared to estimate the Companys exposure to market risk of its daily net commodity position. The Companys daily net commodity position consists of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, related purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts, including those contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements. The fair value of such daily net commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing each net position at quoted futures prices. Market risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in such prices. Actual results may differ. 2008 2007 Long/(Short) Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest position $ 1,260 $ 126 $ 703 $ 70 Lowest position (915 ) (92 ) (565 ) (57 ) Average position 251 25 180 18 The change in fair value of the average position for 2008 compared to 2007 was principally a result of increases in commodity prices and, to a lesser extent, quantities underlying the daily net commodity position. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) Currencies In order to reduce the risk of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, except for amounts permanently invested as described below, the Company follows a policy of entering into currency exchange forward contracts to mitigate its foreign currency risk related to transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currencies applicable to each of its various entities. The instruments used are forward contracts, swaps with banks, and exchange traded futures contracts. The changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $7.0 billion at June 30, 2008, and $5.4 billion at June 30, 2007. This increase is due to an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and appreciation of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar. The potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $695 million and $543 million for 2008 and 2007, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical .5% decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2008 2007 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 7,789 $ 4,862 Excess of fair value over carrying value 99 110 Market risk 308 232 The increase in fair value of long term debt in 2008 resulted principally from the Companys issuance of approximately $3.1 billion in long term debt in 2008. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Capital resources were strengthened in 2008 as shown by the increase in the Companys net worth from $11.3 billion to $13.5 billion. The Companys ratio of long term debt to total capital (the sum of the Companys long term debt and shareholders equity) was 36% at June 30, 2008, and 30% at June 30, 2007. This ratio is a measure of the Companys long term liquidity and is an indicator of financial flexibility. The Company currently has $7.4 billion of commercial paper and commercial bank lines available to meet seasonal cash requirements of which $5.2 billion are committed and $2.2 billion are uncommitted. At June 30, 2008, the Company had $3.1 billion of short term debt outstanding. Standard & Poors, Moodys, and Fitch rate the Companys commercial paper as A 1, P 1, and F1, respectively, and rate the Companys long term debt as A, A2, and A, respectively. In addition to the cash flow generated from operations, the Company has access to equity and debt capital through numerous alternatives from public and private sources in domestic and international markets. The Company has outstanding $1.15 billion principal amount of convertible senior notes. As of June 30, 2008, none of the conditions permitting conversion of the notes had been satisfied. As of June 30, 2008, the market price of the Companys common stock was not greater than the exercise price of the purchased call options or warrants related to the convertible senior notes. In June 2008, the Company issued $1.75 billion of debentures as a component of Equity Units. The Equity Units are a combination of (a) debt and (b) forward contracts for the holder to purchase the Companys common stock. The purchase contracts obligate the holder to purchase from the Company, no later than June 1, 2011, for a price of $50 in cash, a certain number of shares, ranging from 1.0453 shares to 1.2544 shares, of the Companys common stock, based on a formula established in the contract. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements In the normal course of business, the Company enters into contracts and commitments which obligate the Company to make payments in the future. The following table sets forth the Companys significant future obligations by time period. Purchases include commodity based contracts entered into in the normal course of business, which are further described in Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, energy related purchase contracts entered into in the normal course of business, and other purchase obligations related to the Companys normal business activities. Where applicable, information included in the Companys consolidated financial statements and notes is cross referenced in this table. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Payments Due by Period Contractual Note Less than 1 3 3 5 More than Obligations Reference Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years (In millions) Purchases Inventories $ 24,230 $ 22,813 $ 1,200 $ 174 $ 43 Energy 952 502 302 80 68 Other 148 58 60 18 12 Total purchases 25,330 23,373 1,562 272 123 Short term debt Note 7 3,123 3,123 Long term debt Note 7 7,993 232 358 380 7,023 Estimated interest payments 9,639 511 808 758 7,562 Operating leases Note 12 1,364 403 402 239 320 Estimated pension and other postretirement plan contributions Note 13 1,217 90 204 229 694 Total $ 48,666 $ 27,732 $ 3,334 $ 1,878 $ 15,722 At June 30, 2008, the Company estimates it will spend approximately $2.5 billion over the next five years to complete currently approved capital projects and acquisitions which is not included in the table above. The Company is a limited partner in various private equity funds which invest primarily in emerging markets. At June 30, 2008, the Companys carrying value of these limited partnership investments was $129 million. The Company has future capital commitments related to these partnerships of $137 million and expects the majority of these additional capital commitments, if called for, to be funded by cash flows generated by the partnerships. The Company also has outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds of $500 million at June 30, 2008. In addition, the Company has entered into agreements, primarily debt guarantee agreements related to equity method investees, which could obligate the Company to make future payments. The Companys liability under these agreements arises only if the primary entity fails to perform its contractual obligation. The Company has collateral for a portion of these contingent obligations. At June 30, 2008, these contingent obligations totaled approximately $135 million. Amounts outstanding for the primary entity under these contingent obligations were $62 million at June 30, 2008. Critical Accounting Policies The process of preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the carrying values of the Companys assets and liabilities as well as the recognition of revenues and expenses. These estimates and judgments are based on the Companys historical experience and managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Certain of the Companys accounting policies are considered critical, as these policies are important to the depiction of the Companys financial statements and require significant or complex judgment by management. Management has discussed with the Companys Audit Committee the development, selection, disclosure, and application of these critical accounting policies. Following are the accounting policies management considers critical to the Companys financial statements. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Inventories and Derivatives Certain of the Companys merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, forward fixed price purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts are valued at estimated market values. These merchandisable agricultural commodities are freely traded, have quoted market prices, and may be sold without significant additional processing. Management estimates market value based on exchange quoted prices, adjusted for differences in local markets. Changes in the market values of these inventories and contracts are recognized in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. If management used different methods or factors to estimate market value, amounts reported as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. Additionally, if market conditions change subsequent to year end, amounts reported in future periods as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. The Company, from time to time, uses derivative contracts designated as cash flow hedges to fix the purchase price of anticipated volumes of commodities to be purchased and processed in a future month, to fix the purchase price of the Companys anticipated natural gas requirements for certain production facilities, and to fix the sales price of anticipated volumes of ethanol. The change in the market value of such derivative contracts has historically been, and is expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. If it is determined that the derivative instruments used are no longer effective at offsetting changes in the price of the hedged item, then the changes in the market value of these exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts would be recorded in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. Employee Benefit Plans The Company provides substantially all domestic employees and employees at certain international subsidiaries with pension benefits. The Company also provides substantially all domestic salaried employees with postretirement health care and life insurance benefits. In order to measure the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans, management makes several estimates and assumptions, including interest rates used to discount certain liabilities, rates of return on assets set aside to fund these plans, rates of compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and anticipated future health care costs. These estimates and assumptions are based on the Companys historical experience combined with managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Management also uses third party actuaries to assist in measuring the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans. If management used different estimates and assumptions regarding these plans, the funded status of the plans could vary significantly, and the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Income Taxes The Company frequently faces challenges from domestic and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company records reserves for estimates of potential additional tax owed by the Company. Deferred tax assets represent items to be used as tax deductions or credits in future tax returns, and the related tax benefit has already been recognized in the Companys income statement. Realization of certain deferred tax assets reflects the Companys tax planning strategies. Valuation allowances related to these deferred tax assets have been established to the extent the realization of the tax benefit is not probable. Based on managements evaluation of the Companys tax position, it is believed the amounts related to these tax exposures are appropriately accrued. To the extent the Company were to favorably resolve matters for which accruals have been established or be required to pay amounts in excess of the aforementioned reserves, the Companys effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be impacted. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and affiliated corporate joint ventures accounted for on the equity method are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by unpredictable factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned unpredictable factors, therefore, may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and profitability of the Companys asset base in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its factories. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment, technology, and companies related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. The Company evaluates goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives for impairment annually. Assets are written down after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these assets, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Valuation of Marketable Securities and Investments in Affiliates The Company classifies the majority of its marketable securities as available for sale and carries these securities at fair value. Investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings and are adjusted, where appropriate, for amortizable basis differences between the investment balance and the underlying net assets of the investee. For publicly traded securities, the fair value of the Companys investments is readily available based on quoted market prices. For non publicly traded securities, managements assessment of fair value is based on valuation methodologies including discounted cash flows and estimates of sales proceeds. In the event of a decline in fair value of an investment below carrying value, management may be required to determine if the decline in fair value is other than temporary. In evaluating the nature of a decline in the fair value of an investment, management considers the market conditions, trends of earnings, discounted cash flows, trading volumes, and other key measures of the investment as well as the Companys ability and intent to hold the investment. When such a decline in value is deemed to be other than temporary, an impairment loss is recognized in the current period operating results to the extent of the decline. See Notes 3 and 5 to the Companys consolidated financial statements for information regarding the Companys marketable securities and investments in affiliates. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these marketable securities, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in: commodity market prices as they relate to the Companys net commodity position, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and price of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to unpredictable factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. To reduce price risk caused by market fluctuations, the Company generally follows a policy of using exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts to minimize its net position of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories and forward cash purchase and sales contracts. The Company will also use exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the volatility of the relationship between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contracts defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company from time to time enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. A sensitivity analysis has been prepared to estimate the Companys exposure to market risk of its daily net commodity position. The Companys daily net commodity position consists of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, related purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts, including those contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements. The fair value of such daily net commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing each net position at quoted futures prices. Market risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in such prices. Actual results may differ. 2008 2007 Long/(Short) Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest position $ 1,260 $ 126 $ 703 $ 70 Lowest position (915 ) (92 ) (565 ) (57 ) Average position 251 25 180 18 The change in fair value of the average position for 2008 compared to 2007 was principally a result of increases in commodity prices and, to a lesser extent, quantities underlying the daily net commodity position. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) Currencies In order to reduce the risk of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, except for amounts permanently invested as described below, the Company follows a policy of entering into currency exchange forward contracts to mitigate its foreign currency risk related to transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currencies applicable to each of its various entities. The instruments used are forward contracts, swaps with banks, and exchange traded futures contracts. The changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $7.0 billion at June 30, 2008, and $5.4 billion at June 30, 2007. This increase is due to an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and appreciation of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar. The potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $695 million and $543 million for 2008 and 2007, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical .5% decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2008 2007 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 7,789 $ 4,862 Excess of fair value over carrying value 99 110 Market risk 308 232 The increase in fair value of long term debt in 2008 resulted principally from the Companys issuance of approximately $3.1 billion in long term debt in 2008. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Payments Due by Period Contractual Note Less than 1 3 3 5 More than Obligations Reference Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years (In millions) Purchases Inventories $ 24,230 $ 22,813 $ 1,200 $ 174 $ 43 Energy 952 502 302 80 68 Other 148 58 60 18 12 Total purchases 25,330 23,373 1,562 272 123 Short term debt Note 7 3,123 3,123 Long term debt Note 7 7,993 232 358 380 7,023 Estimated interest payments 9,639 511 808 758 7,562 Operating leases Note 12 1,364 403 402 239 320 Estimated pension and other postretirement plan contributions Note 13 1,217 90 204 229 694 Total $ 48,666 $ 27,732 $ 3,334 $ 1,878 $ 15,722 At June 30, 2008, the Company estimates it will spend approximately $2.5 billion over the next five years to complete currently approved capital projects and acquisitions which is not included in the table above. The Company is a limited partner in various private equity funds which invest primarily in emerging markets. At June 30, 2008, the Companys carrying value of these limited partnership investments was $129 million. The Company has future capital commitments related to these partnerships of $137 million and expects the majority of these additional capital commitments, if called for, to be funded by cash flows generated by the partnerships. The Company also has outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds of $500 million at June 30, 2008. In addition, the Company has entered into agreements, primarily debt guarantee agreements related to equity method investees, which could obligate the Company to make future payments. The Companys liability under these agreements arises only if the primary entity fails to perform its contractual obligation. The Company has collateral for a portion of these contingent obligations. At June 30, 2008, these contingent obligations totaled approximately $135 million. Amounts outstanding for the primary entity under these contingent obligations were $62 million at June 30, 2008. Critical Accounting Policies The process of preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the carrying values of the Companys assets and liabilities as well as the recognition of revenues and expenses. These estimates and judgments are based on the Companys historical experience and managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Certain of the Companys accounting policies are considered critical, as these policies are important to the depiction of the Companys financial statements and require significant or complex judgment by management. Management has discussed with the Companys Audit Committee the development, selection, disclosure, and application of these critical accounting policies. Following are the accounting policies management considers critical to the Companys financial statements. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Inventories and Derivatives Certain of the Companys merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, forward fixed price purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts are valued at estimated market values. These merchandisable agricultural commodities are freely traded, have quoted market prices, and may be sold without significant additional processing. Management estimates market value based on exchange quoted prices, adjusted for differences in local markets. Changes in the market values of these inventories and contracts are recognized in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. If management used different methods or factors to estimate market value, amounts reported as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. Additionally, if market conditions change subsequent to year end, amounts reported in future periods as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. The Company, from time to time, uses derivative contracts designated as cash flow hedges to fix the purchase price of anticipated volumes of commodities to be purchased and processed in a future month, to fix the purchase price of the Companys anticipated natural gas requirements for certain production facilities, and to fix the sales price of anticipated volumes of ethanol. The change in the market value of such derivative contracts has historically been, and is expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. If it is determined that the derivative instruments used are no longer effective at offsetting changes in the price of the hedged item, then the changes in the market value of these exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts would be recorded in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. Employee Benefit Plans The Company provides substantially all domestic employees and employees at certain international subsidiaries with pension benefits. The Company also provides substantially all domestic salaried employees with postretirement health care and life insurance benefits. In order to measure the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans, management makes several estimates and assumptions, including interest rates used to discount certain liabilities, rates of return on assets set aside to fund these plans, rates of compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and anticipated future health care costs. These estimates and assumptions are based on the Companys historical experience combined with managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Management also uses third party actuaries to assist in measuring the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans. If management used different estimates and assumptions regarding these plans, the funded status of the plans could vary significantly, and the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Income Taxes The Company frequently faces challenges from domestic and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company records reserves for estimates of potential additional tax owed by the Company. Deferred tax assets represent items to be used as tax deductions or credits in future tax returns, and the related tax benefit has already been recognized in the Companys income statement. Realization of certain deferred tax assets reflects the Companys tax planning strategies. Valuation allowances related to these deferred tax assets have been established to the extent the realization of the tax benefit is not probable. Based on managements evaluation of the Companys tax position, it is believed the amounts related to these tax exposures are appropriately accrued. To the extent the Company were to favorably resolve matters for which accruals have been established or be required to pay amounts in excess of the aforementioned reserves, the Companys effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be impacted. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and affiliated corporate joint ventures accounted for on the equity method are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by unpredictable factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned unpredictable factors, therefore, may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and profitability of the Companys asset base in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its factories. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment, technology, and companies related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. The Company evaluates goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives for impairment annually. Assets are written down after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these assets, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Valuation of Marketable Securities and Investments in Affiliates The Company classifies the majority of its marketable securities as available for sale and carries these securities at fair value. Investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings and are adjusted, where appropriate, for amortizable basis differences between the investment balance and the underlying net assets of the investee. For publicly traded securities, the fair value of the Companys investments is readily available based on quoted market prices. For non publicly traded securities, managements assessment of fair value is based on valuation methodologies including discounted cash flows and estimates of sales proceeds. In the event of a decline in fair value of an investment below carrying value, management may be required to determine if the decline in fair value is other than temporary. In evaluating the nature of a decline in the fair value of an investment, management considers the market conditions, trends of earnings, discounted cash flows, trading volumes, and other key measures of the investment as well as the Companys ability and intent to hold the investment. When such a decline in value is deemed to be other than temporary, an impairment loss is recognized in the current period operating results to the extent of the decline. See Notes 3 and 5 to the Companys consolidated financial statements for information regarding the Companys marketable securities and investments in affiliates. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these marketable securities, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in: commodity market prices as they relate to the Companys net commodity position, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and price of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to unpredictable factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. To reduce price risk caused by market fluctuations, the Company generally follows a policy of using exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts to minimize its net position of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories and forward cash purchase and sales contracts. The Company will also use exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the volatility of the relationship between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contracts defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company from time to time enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. A sensitivity analysis has been prepared to estimate the Companys exposure to market risk of its daily net commodity position. The Companys daily net commodity position consists of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, related purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts, including those contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements. The fair value of such daily net commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing each net position at quoted futures prices. Market risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in such prices. Actual results may differ. 2008 2007 Long/(Short) Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest position $ 1,260 $ 126 $ 703 $ 70 Lowest position (915 ) (92 ) (565 ) (57 ) Average position 251 25 180 18 The change in fair value of the average position for 2008 compared to 2007 was principally a result of increases in commodity prices and, to a lesser extent, quantities underlying the daily net commodity position. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) Currencies In order to reduce the risk of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, except for amounts permanently invested as described below, the Company follows a policy of entering into currency exchange forward contracts to mitigate its foreign currency risk related to transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currencies applicable to each of its various entities. The instruments used are forward contracts, swaps with banks, and exchange traded futures contracts. The changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $7.0 billion at June 30, 2008, and $5.4 billion at June 30, 2007. This increase is due to an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and appreciation of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar. The potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $695 million and $543 million for 2008 and 2007, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical .5% decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2008 2007 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 7,789 $ 4,862 Excess of fair value over carrying value 99 110 Market risk 308 232 The increase in fair value of long term debt in 2008 resulted principally from the Companys issuance of approximately $3.1 billion in long term debt in 2008. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Inventories and Derivatives Certain of the Companys merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, forward fixed price purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts are valued at estimated market values. These merchandisable agricultural commodities are freely traded, have quoted market prices, and may be sold without significant additional processing. Management estimates market value based on exchange quoted prices, adjusted for differences in local markets. Changes in the market values of these inventories and contracts are recognized in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. If management used different methods or factors to estimate market value, amounts reported as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. Additionally, if market conditions change subsequent to year end, amounts reported in future periods as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. The Company, from time to time, uses derivative contracts designated as cash flow hedges to fix the purchase price of anticipated volumes of commodities to be purchased and processed in a future month, to fix the purchase price of the Companys anticipated natural gas requirements for certain production facilities, and to fix the sales price of anticipated volumes of ethanol. The change in the market value of such derivative contracts has historically been, and is expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. If it is determined that the derivative instruments used are no longer effective at offsetting changes in the price of the hedged item, then the changes in the market value of these exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts would be recorded in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. Employee Benefit Plans The Company provides substantially all domestic employees and employees at certain international subsidiaries with pension benefits. The Company also provides substantially all domestic salaried employees with postretirement health care and life insurance benefits. In order to measure the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans, management makes several estimates and assumptions, including interest rates used to discount certain liabilities, rates of return on assets set aside to fund these plans, rates of compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and anticipated future health care costs. These estimates and assumptions are based on the Companys historical experience combined with managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Management also uses third party actuaries to assist in measuring the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans. If management used different estimates and assumptions regarding these plans, the funded status of the plans could vary significantly, and the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Income Taxes The Company frequently faces challenges from domestic and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company records reserves for estimates of potential additional tax owed by the Company. Deferred tax assets represent items to be used as tax deductions or credits in future tax returns, and the related tax benefit has already been recognized in the Companys income statement. Realization of certain deferred tax assets reflects the Companys tax planning strategies. Valuation allowances related to these deferred tax assets have been established to the extent the realization of the tax benefit is not probable. Based on managements evaluation of the Companys tax position, it is believed the amounts related to these tax exposures are appropriately accrued. To the extent the Company were to favorably resolve matters for which accruals have been established or be required to pay amounts in excess of the aforementioned reserves, the Companys effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be impacted. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and affiliated corporate joint ventures accounted for on the equity method are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by unpredictable factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned unpredictable factors, therefore, may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and profitability of the Companys asset base in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its factories. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment, technology, and companies related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. The Company evaluates goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives for impairment annually. Assets are written down after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these assets, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Valuation of Marketable Securities and Investments in Affiliates The Company classifies the majority of its marketable securities as available for sale and carries these securities at fair value. Investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings and are adjusted, where appropriate, for amortizable basis differences between the investment balance and the underlying net assets of the investee. For publicly traded securities, the fair value of the Companys investments is readily available based on quoted market prices. For non publicly traded securities, managements assessment of fair value is based on valuation methodologies including discounted cash flows and estimates of sales proceeds. In the event of a decline in fair value of an investment below carrying value, management may be required to determine if the decline in fair value is other than temporary. In evaluating the nature of a decline in the fair value of an investment, management considers the market conditions, trends of earnings, discounted cash flows, trading volumes, and other key measures of the investment as well as the Companys ability and intent to hold the investment. When such a decline in value is deemed to be other than temporary, an impairment loss is recognized in the current period operating results to the extent of the decline. See Notes 3 and 5 to the Companys consolidated financial statements for information regarding the Companys marketable securities and investments in affiliates. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these marketable securities, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in: commodity market prices as they relate to the Companys net commodity position, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and price of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to unpredictable factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. To reduce price risk caused by market fluctuations, the Company generally follows a policy of using exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts to minimize its net position of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories and forward cash purchase and sales contracts. The Company will also use exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the volatility of the relationship between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contracts defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company from time to time enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. A sensitivity analysis has been prepared to estimate the Companys exposure to market risk of its daily net commodity position. The Companys daily net commodity position consists of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, related purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts, including those contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements. The fair value of such daily net commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing each net position at quoted futures prices. Market risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in such prices. Actual results may differ. 2008 2007 Long/(Short) Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest position $ 1,260 $ 126 $ 703 $ 70 Lowest position (915 ) (92 ) (565 ) (57 ) Average position 251 25 180 18 The change in fair value of the average position for 2008 compared to 2007 was principally a result of increases in commodity prices and, to a lesser extent, quantities underlying the daily net commodity position. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) Currencies In order to reduce the risk of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, except for amounts permanently invested as described below, the Company follows a policy of entering into currency exchange forward contracts to mitigate its foreign currency risk related to transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currencies applicable to each of its various entities. The instruments used are forward contracts, swaps with banks, and exchange traded futures contracts. The changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $7.0 billion at June 30, 2008, and $5.4 billion at June 30, 2007. This increase is due to an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and appreciation of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar. The potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $695 million and $543 million for 2008 and 2007, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical .5% decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2008 2007 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 7,789 $ 4,862 Excess of fair value over carrying value 99 110 Market risk 308 232 The increase in fair value of long term debt in 2008 resulted principally from the Companys issuance of approximately $3.1 billion in long term debt in 2008. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and affiliated corporate joint ventures accounted for on the equity method are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by unpredictable factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned unpredictable factors, therefore, may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and profitability of the Companys asset base in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its factories. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment, technology, and companies related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. The Company evaluates goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives for impairment annually. Assets are written down after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these assets, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Valuation of Marketable Securities and Investments in Affiliates The Company classifies the majority of its marketable securities as available for sale and carries these securities at fair value. Investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings and are adjusted, where appropriate, for amortizable basis differences between the investment balance and the underlying net assets of the investee. For publicly traded securities, the fair value of the Companys investments is readily available based on quoted market prices. For non publicly traded securities, managements assessment of fair value is based on valuation methodologies including discounted cash flows and estimates of sales proceeds. In the event of a decline in fair value of an investment below carrying value, management may be required to determine if the decline in fair value is other than temporary. In evaluating the nature of a decline in the fair value of an investment, management considers the market conditions, trends of earnings, discounted cash flows, trading volumes, and other key measures of the investment as well as the Companys ability and intent to hold the investment. When such a decline in value is deemed to be other than temporary, an impairment loss is recognized in the current period operating results to the extent of the decline. See Notes 3 and 5 to the Companys consolidated financial statements for information regarding the Companys marketable securities and investments in affiliates. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these marketable securities, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in: commodity market prices as they relate to the Companys net commodity position, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and price of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to unpredictable factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. To reduce price risk caused by market fluctuations, the Company generally follows a policy of using exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts to minimize its net position of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories and forward cash purchase and sales contracts. The Company will also use exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the volatility of the relationship between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contracts defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company from time to time enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. A sensitivity analysis has been prepared to estimate the Companys exposure to market risk of its daily net commodity position. The Companys daily net commodity position consists of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, related purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts, including those contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements. The fair value of such daily net commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing each net position at quoted futures prices. Market risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in such prices. Actual results may differ. 2008 2007 Long/(Short) Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest position $ 1,260 $ 126 $ 703 $ 70 Lowest position (915 ) (92 ) (565 ) (57 ) Average position 251 25 180 18 The change in fair value of the average position for 2008 compared to 2007 was principally a result of increases in commodity prices and, to a lesser extent, quantities underlying the daily net commodity position. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) Currencies In order to reduce the risk of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, except for amounts permanently invested as described below, the Company follows a policy of entering into currency exchange forward contracts to mitigate its foreign currency risk related to transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currencies applicable to each of its various entities. The instruments used are forward contracts, swaps with banks, and exchange traded futures contracts. The changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $7.0 billion at June 30, 2008, and $5.4 billion at June 30, 2007. This increase is due to an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and appreciation of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar. The potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $695 million and $543 million for 2008 and 2007, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical .5% decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2008 2007 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 7,789 $ 4,862 Excess of fair value over carrying value 99 110 Market risk 308 232 The increase in fair value of long term debt in 2008 resulted principally from the Companys issuance of approximately $3.1 billion in long term debt in 2008. 
 
