Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Company Overview The Company is principally engaged in procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. The Companys operations are classified into three reportable business segments: Oilseeds Processing, Corn Processing and Agricultural Services. Each of these segments is organized based upon the nature of products and services offered. The Companys remaining operations, which include wheat processing, cocoa processing, and its financial business units, are not reportable segments, as defined by the applicable accounting standard, and are classified as Other. The Oilseeds Processing segment includes activities related to the origination, merchandising, crushing, and further processing of oilseeds such as soybeans, cottonseed, sunflower seeds, canola, rapeseed, peanuts, flaxseed, and palm into vegetable oils and protein meals. The Oilseeds Processing segment principally produces and markets processed oilseed products as ingredients for the food, feed, energy, and other industrial products industries. Crude vegetable oil is sold "as is" or is further processed by refining, blending, bleaching, and deodorizing into salad oils. Salad oils are sold as is or are further processed by hydrogenating and or interesterifying into margarine, shortening, and other food products. Partially refined oil is used to produce biodiesel or is sold to other manufact urers for use in chemicals, paints, and other industrial products. Oilseed protein meals are principally sold to third parties to be used as ingredients in commercial livestock and poultry feeds. The Oilseeds Processing segment also produces natural health and nutrition products and other specialty food and feed ingredients. In North America, cottonseed flour is produced and sold primarily to the pharmaceutical industry and cotton cellulose pulp is manufactured and sold to the chemical, paper, and filter markets. In South America, the Oilseeds Processing segment utilizes a network of grain elevators, port facilities and transportation assets to buy, store, clean, and transport agricultural commodities and operates fertilizer blending facilities. This segment also includes the Companys share of the results of its equity method investment in Wilmar and its Golden Peanut Company LLC, Edible Oils Limited, and Stratas Foods LLC joint ventures. The Companys Corn Processing segment is engaged in corn wet milling and dry milling activities, primarily in the United States, related to its production of ingredients used in the food and beverage industry including syrup, starch, glucose, dextrose, and sweeteners. Dextrose is also used by the Company as a feedstock for its bioproducts operations. Corn gluten feed and meal, as well as distillers grains, is produced for use as animal feed ingredients. Corn germ, a by product of the wet milling process, is further processed as an oilseed into vegetable oil and protein meal. By fermentation of dextrose, the Corn Processing segment produces alcohol, amino acids, and other specialty food and animal feed ingredients. Ethyl alcohol is produced by the Company to beverage grade or for industrial use as ethanol. In gasoline, ethanol increases octane and is used as an extender and oxygenate. Amino acids, such as lysine and threonine, are vital compounds used in swine feeds to produce leaner animals and in poultry feeds to enhance the speed and efficiency of poultry production. The Corn Processing segment also produces, by fermentation, astaxanthin, a product used in aquaculture to enhance flesh coloration. The Corn Processing segment produces citric and lactic acids, lactates, sorbitol, xanthan gum and glycols which are used in various food and industrial prod ucts. The Corn Processing segment includes the activities of the Companys Brazilian sugarcane operations, propylene and ethylene glycol facility, and investments in renewable plastics. This segment also includes the Companys share of the results of its equity method investments in Almidones Mexicanos S.A., Eaststarch C.V., and Red Star Yeast Company LLC. The Agricultural Services segment utilizes the Companys extensive grain elevator and transportation network to buy, store, clean, and transport agricultural commodities, such as oilseeds, corn, wheat, milo, oats, rice, and barley, and resells these commodities primarily as food and feed ingredients and as raw materials for the agricultural processing industry. Agricultural Services grain sourcing and transportation network provides reliable and efficient services to the Companys agricultural processing operations and customers. Agricultural Services transportation network capabilities include ground, rail, river, and ocean freight services. The Agricultural Services segment also includes activities r elated to procuring, processing, and distributing edible beans, and the processing and distributing of formula feeds and animal health and nutrition products. In addition, the Agricultural Services segment includes the activities of Alfred C. Toepfer International, a global merchant of agricultural commodities and processed products, and the Companys share of the results of its Kalama Export Company joint venture. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Other includes the Companys remaining processing operations, consisting of activities related to processing agricultural commodities into food ingredient products such as wheat into wheat flour and cocoa into chocolate and cocoa products. Other also includes financial activities related to banking, captive insurance, private equity fund investments, futures commission merchant activities, and the Companys share of the results of its equity method investment in Gruma S.A.B. de C.V. Certain Corporate items are not allocated to the Companys reportable business segments. Corporate results include the impact of LIFO related adjustments, the after tax elimination of income attributable to mandatorily redeemable interests in consolidated subsidiaries, unallocated corporate expenses, and unallocated net interest costs. Operating Performance Indicators The Companys Oilseeds Processing, Agricultural Services, and wheat processing operations are principally agricultural commodity based businesses where changes in selling prices move in relationship to changes in prices of the commodity based agricultural raw materials. Thus, changes in agricultural commodity prices have relatively equal impacts on both sales revenue and cost of products sold. Therefore, changes in gross profit of these businesses do not necessarily correspond to the changes in net sales and other operating income amounts. The Companys Corn Processing operations and certain other food and animal feed processing operations also utilize agricultural commodities (or products derived from agricultural commodities) as raw materials. In these operations, agricultural commodity market price changes can result in significant fluctuations in cost of products sold, and such price changes cannot necessarily be passed directly through to the selling price of the finished products. The Company conducts its business in over 60 countries. For the majority of the Companys subsidiaries located outside the United States the local currency is the functional currency. Revenues and expenses denominated in foreign currencies are translated into U.S. dollars at the weighted average exchange rates for the applicable periods. For the majority of the Companys business activities in Brazil, the functional currency is the U.S. dollar, however certain transactions, including taxes, occur in local currency and require conversion to the functional currency. The impact of these currency exchange rate changes, where significant, is discussed in Item 7A. Fluctuations in the exchange rates of foreign currencies, primarily the Euro, British pound, Canadian dollar and Brazilian r eal, as compared to the U.S. dollar will result in corresponding fluctuations in the U.S. dollar value of revenues and expenses reported by the Company. The Company measures the performance of its business segments using key operating statistics such as segment operating profit, return on fixed capital investment, return on invested capital, and return on equity. The Companys operating results can vary significantly due to changes in factors such as fluctuations in energy prices, weather conditions, crop plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth, general global economic conditions, changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. Due to these unpredictable factors, the Company does not provide forward looking information in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) 2010 Compared to 2009 As an agricultural commodity based business, the Company is subject to a variety of market factors which affect the Companys operating results. Market expectations throughout most of fiscal 2010 for fewer global crop supply and demand imbalances, coupled with continuing uncertainty about short term demand, led to generally lower and less volatile agricultural commodity market prices and conditions. In addition, the late, extended U.S. harvest reduced profit opportunities. North American oilseed exports and domestic crushing volumes were enhanced by the poor supply of 2009 crop year soybeans in South America. Increased government mandates for the use of biodiesel in South America and Europe resulted in increased biodiesel demand and helped keep overall demand for refined and crude vegetable oil steady in these regions. However, in North America, demand for vegetable oils remained weak due to low consumption of oils in the food service and biodiesel industries, in part due to the expiration of the biodiesel blending credit in the U.S. on January 1, 2010. Soybean protein meal demand improved, particularly in Asia. Market prices for corn decreased resulting in lower raw material costs for Corn Processing and decreased average selling prices for sweeteners and starches. Lower energy, fuel and chemical costs per unit positively impacted the Companys manufacturing costs. More favorable ethanol blending economics together with increased ethanol merchandising activity resulted in increased demand, higher ethanol sales volumes, and improved margins. Earnings before income taxes for 2010 include a credit of $42 million from the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations, compared to a credit of $517 million in 2009. Income taxes decreased $146 million due to a lower effective income tax rate, partially offset by higher pretax earnings. Income taxes for 2009 included a $158 million charge resulting from the restructuring of a holding company in which the Company holds a portion of its equity investment in Wilmar. Analysis of Statements of Earnings Net sales and other operating income by segment are as follows: 2010 2009 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing & Origination $ 15,732 $ 15,579 $ 153 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel & Other 7,136 8,760 (1,624 ) Asia 190 179 11 Total Oilseeds Processing 23,058 24,518 (1,460 ) Corn Processing Sweeteners & Starches 3,333 3,785 (452 ) Bioproducts 4,609 3,938 671 Total Corn Processing 7,942 7,723 219 Agricultural Services Merchandising & Handling 25,273 31,342 (6,069 ) Transportation 167 242 (75 ) Total Agricultural Services 25,440 31,584 (6,144 ) Other Wheat, Cocoa & Malt 5,147 5,272 (125 ) Financial 95 110 (15 ) Total Other 5,242 5,382 (140 ) Total $ 61,682 $ 69,207 $ (7,525 ) Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Net sales and other operating income decreased 11% to $61.7 billion due principally to lower average selling prices in line with year over year declines in underlying commodity costs. Oilseeds Processing sales decreased 6% to $23.1 billion, due principally to lower average selling prices for soybeans, protein meal, refined oil, and biodiesel partially offset by increased sales volumes of soybeans and fertilizer. Corn Processing sales increased 3% to $7.9 billion primarily as a result of increased sales volumes of ethanol and lysine partially offset by lower average selling prices of ethanol, sweeteners, and starches. Agricultural Services sales decreased 19% to $25.4 billion, due to lower average selling prices, in line with year over year declines in underlying commodity prices, and lower sales volumes . Other sales decreased 3% to $5.2 billion, primarily due to lower average selling prices of wheat flour partially offset by increased wheat flour sales volumes and higher average selling prices and sales volumes for cocoa products. Cost of products sold decreased 11% to $57.8 billion, due principally to decreased agricultural commodity costs including the impact of changes in LIFO inventory valuations which reduced cost of products sold by $42 million in 2010 compared to $517 million in 2009. Manufacturing expenses decreased 1% or $60 million, primarily due to lower energy, chemical and fuel costs partially offset by higher employee related costs and a $124 million increase in depreciation and amortization expense. In 2010, manufacturing expenses included additional costs associated with the Companys new greenfield plants. Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased 1% to $1.4 billion, due principally to decreased provisions for doubtful accounts partially offset by increased expenses for legal, professional, and commercial services. Other (income) expense net improved $317 million primarily due to increased equity earnings of unconsolidated affiliates of $416 million, and decreased expense for the elimination of after tax mandatorily redeemable interests in consolidated subsidiaries. These increases were partially offset by pre tax charges of $75 million related to the early extinguishment of debt and $59 million for unrealized losses on interest rate swaps (for more information see Note 8 in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data). Equity earnings of unconsolidated affiliates in 2009 included a non cash charge of $275 million related to currency derivative losses of the Companys equity investee, Gruma S.A.B. de C.V. Income taxes decreased $146 million due to a lower effective income tax rate partially offset by higher pretax earnings. The Companys effective income tax rate during 2010 was 25.8%. In 2009, the effective income tax rate was 32.5% which included $158 million of income tax charges related to the partial restructuring of the holding company structure through which the Company holds a portion of its equity investment in Wilmar. Excluding these Wilmar charges, the Companys effective income tax rate for 2009 was 26.2%. For more information concerning Wilmar tax matters see Note 12 in Item 8. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Operating profit by segment is as follows: 2010 2009 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing & Origination $ 818 $ 767 $ 51 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel & Other 291 265 26 Asia 291 248 43 Total Oilseeds Processing 1,400 1,280 120 Corn Processing Sweeteners & Starches 529 500 29 Bioproducts 193 (315 ) 508 Total Corn Processing 722 185 537 Agricultural Services Merchandising & Handling 583 832 (249 ) Transportation 85 162 (77 ) Total Agricultural Services 668 994 (326 ) Other Wheat, Cocoa & Malt 403 51 352 Financial 46 (57 ) 103 Total Other 449 (6 ) 455 Total Segment Operating Profit 3,239 2,453 786 Corporate (see below) (654 ) 47 (701 ) Earnings Before Income Taxes $ 2,585 $ 2,500 $ 85 Corporate results are as follows: 2010 2009 Change (In millions) LIFO credit $ 42 $ 517 $ (475 ) Unallocated interest expense net (283 ) (192 ) (91 ) Unallocated corporate costs (266 ) (252 ) (14 ) Charges on early extinguishment of debt (75 ) (75 ) Unrealized losses on interest rate swaps (59 ) (59 ) Other (13 ) (26 ) 13 Total Corporate $ (654 ) $ 47 $ (701 ) Oilseeds Processing operating profit increased 9% to $1.4 billion. Crushing and origination results increased $51 million due to higher North American soybean crushing margins and favorable soft seed commodity positioning partially offset by lower soybean crushing margins in Europe and South America. Refining, packaging, biodiesel and other operating profit increased $26 million due primarily to higher South American biodiesel results and improved margins in Europe. Oilseeds processing results in Asia increased $43 million to $291 million due principally to improved equity earnings of Wilmar. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Corn Processing operating profit increased $537 million to $722 million. Bioproducts operating profit increased $508 million due to improved ethanol and lysine sales volumes and improved ethanol margins resulting from lower net corn costs and decreased manufacturing costs. Ethanol sales volumes increased due to favorable gasoline blending economics and increased merchandising activity. Sweeteners and starches operating profit increased $29 million due to lower net corn and manufacturing costs due principally to lower energy and chemical prices. These lower manufacturing costs were partially offset by lower average selling prices. Agricultural Services operating profit decreased $326 million to $668 million. Merchandising and handling results decreased $249 million. Enhanced volume and margin opportunities created by last years volatile commodity markets and tight credit markets did not recur. Volumes and margins in 2010 benefited from strong demand for U.S. soybean exports following the short South American 2009 crop. Transportation results decreased $77 million due to lower barge freight rates and decreased barge utilization levels resulting from weaker U.S. economic conditions and the late, extended North American harvest. Other operating profit increased $455 million to $449 million. Wheat, cocoa and malt operating profit increased $352 million due to improved equity earnings from the Companys investment in Gruma, improved wheat milling margins, and improved cocoa processing results. Financial operating profit increased $103 million due primarily to the absence of losses experienced last year from managed fund investments and captive insurance operations. Corporate results decreased $701 million. The effects of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations resulted in a credit of $42 million for the year ended June 30, 2010, compared to a credit of $517 million for the year ended June 30, 2009. Unallocated interest expense net increased $91 million reflecting a reduction in corporate interest income caused by lower short term interest rates and lower working capital requirements of the operating segments. In January 2010, the Company repurchased $500 million of long term debt which generated a $75 million pretax charge on early extinguishment of debt. In connection with a debt remarketing planned for 2011, the Company entered into interest rate swaps to fix the interest rate on a portion of the planned remarketing which result ed in $59 million of unrealized losses on interest rate swaps. 2009 Compared to 2008 As an agricultural commodity based business, the Company is subject to a variety of market factors which affect the Companys operating results. Net corn costs increased significantly in 2009 compared to 2008, negatively impacting ethanol margins, and, to a lesser extent, sweeteners and starches margins as the higher net corn costs were only partially offset by increased selling prices for sweeteners and starches. Additionally, lower demand for gasoline, decreased gasoline prices and excess ethanol industry capacity negatively impacted ethanol margins. Demand for agricultural commodities, freight, and other products was weaker during 2009 in line with the downturn in the global economy. Results were negatively impacted by decreased equity earnings in unconsolidated affiliates including significant non cash charges related to currency derivative losses incurred by the Companys equity investee, Gruma S.A.B. de C.V., and losses from the Companys managed fund investments. Earnings before income taxes for 2009 include a credit of $517 million from the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuation reserves, compared to a charge of $569 million in 2008. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Income taxes for 2009 include charges of $158 million resulting from the restructuring of a holding company in which the Company holds a portion of its equity investment in Wilmar. Analysis of Statements of Earnings Net sales and other operating income decreased 1% to $69.2 billion due to foreign exchange translation impacts and decreased sales volumes partially offset by higher average selling prices. Net sales and other operating income increased $3.0 billion due to higher average selling prices primarily related to higher underlying commodity costs, decreased $2.0 billion due to foreign exchange translation impacts, and decreased $1.6 billion due to lower sales volumes and other. Net sales and other operating income by segment are as follows: 2009 2008 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing & Origination $ 15,579 $ 14,477 $ 1,102 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel & Other 8,760 8,588 172 Asia 179 214 (35 ) Total Oilseeds Processing 24,518 23,279 1,239 Corn Processing Sweeteners & Starches 3,785 3,546 239 Bioproducts 3,938 3,591 347 Total Corn Processing 7,723 7,137 586 Agricultural Services Merchandising & Handling 31,342 33,749 (2,407 ) Transportation 242 219 23 Total Agricultural Services 31,584 33,968 (2,384 ) Other Wheat, Cocoa & Malt 5,272 5,335 (63 ) Financial 110 97 13 Total Other 5,382 5,432 (50 ) Total $ 69,207 $ 69,816 $ (609 ) Oilseeds Processing sales increased 5% to $24.5 billion due principally to increased sales volumes of merchandised oilseeds and biodiesel partially offset by lower sales volumes of vegetable oil and protein meal. Corn Processing sales increased 8% to $7.7 billion due principally to higher sales volumes of ethanol and higher average selling prices of sweeteners and starches, partially offset by lower average selling prices of ethanol. Agricultural Services sales decreased 7% to $31.6 billion due principally to lower sales volumes of grain. Other sales decreased 1% to $5.4 billion primarily due to the sale of the Companys malting business during the first quarter of fiscal year 2009 and lower average selling prices of wheat flour. Partially offsetting these decreases were higher average selling prices of cocoa products and increased chocolate sales volumes. Cost of products sold decreased 1% to $65.1 billion, in line with the decrease in net sales and other operating income. Cost of products sold decreased $856 million due principally to decreased sales volumes, decreased LIFO inventory valuations and approximately $1.9 billion from the impact of foreign currency translation, partially offset by increased agricultural commodity costs. Manufacturing expenses decreased $215 million primarily due to decreased energy and fuel costs. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Selling, general and administrative expenses of $1.4 billion were comparable to 2008. Decreased employee related costs and favorable impacts from foreign currency translation were offset by increases in provisions for doubtful accounts. Other (income) expense net decreased $348 million primarily due to decreased results from equity earnings of unconsolidated affiliates of $270 million, and decreased investment income. Equity earnings in unconsolidated affiliates included a non cash charge of $275 million of foreign exchange derivative losses incurred by the Companys equity investee, Gruma S.A.B. de C.V. Operating profit by segment is as follows: 2009 2008 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing & Origination $ 767 $ 727 $ 40 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel & Other 265 181 84 Asia 248 132 116 Total Oilseeds Processing 1,280 1,040 240 Corn Processing Sweeteners & Starches 500 557 (57 ) Bioproducts (315 ) 404 (719 ) Total Corn Processing 185 961 (776 ) Agricultural Services Merchandising & Handling 832 873 (41 ) Transportation 162 144 18 Total Agricultural Services 994 1,017 (23 ) Other Wheat, Cocoa & Malt 51 217 (166 ) Financial (57 ) 206 (263 ) Total Other (6 ) 423 (429 ) Total Segment Operating Profit 2,453 3,441 (988 ) Corporate (see below) 47 (847 ) 894 Earnings Before Income Taxes $ 2,500 $ 2,594 $ (94 ) Corporate results are as follows: 2009 2008 Change (In millions) LIFO credit (charge) $ 517 $ (569 ) $ 1,086 Interest expense (income) net (192 ) 49 (241 ) Corporate costs (252 ) (262 ) 10 Other (26 ) (65 ) 39 Total Corporate $ 47 $ (847 ) $ 894 Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Oilseeds Processing operating profit increased 23% to $1.3 billion. Crushing and origination results increased $40 million. Improved global crushing margins were partially offset by lower fertilizer sales volumes and margins and lower North American crushing volumes due to decreased demand for vegetable oil and protein meal. Refining, packaging, biodiesel and other results increased $84 million due principally to higher biodiesel sales volumes in South America and increased average margins for value added products. 2008 results for refining, packaging, biodiesel and other included asset abandonment charges of $27 million. Asia results increased $116 million due principally to the Companys share in improved operating results of Wilmar. Corn Processing operating profits decreased 81% to $185 million. Sweeteners and starches decreased $57 million due to the impact of higher net corn costs partially offset by higher average sweetener and starches selling prices. Bioproducts operating profit decreased $719 million for the year as ethanol and lysine margins declined significantly due to higher corn costs and lower average selling prices. Ethanol margins were also impacted by lower demand for gasoline, decreased gasoline prices, and excess ethanol industry capacity. Agricultural Services operating profits decreased 2% to $994 million. Merchandising and handling profit decreased $41 million. Merchandising margins moderated as demand for commodities slowed following the downturn in the global economy. Transportation results increased $18 million due to higher barge freight rates. Other operating profits decreased 101% to a loss of $6 million. Wheat, cocoa, and malt processing operating profit decreased $166 million for the year primarily due to equity losses from the Companys investment in Gruma, partially offset by improved cocoa and wheat processing margins. Financial operating profit decreased $263 million due to losses on managed fund investments compared to gains for the year ended June 30, 2008, increased captive insurance loss provisions and decreased interest income and lower marketable security gains of the Companys brokerage service business. Corporate results increased $894 million to $47 million, primarily due to the effects of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations which resulted in credits of $517 million for the year ended June 30, 2009, compared to $569 million of LIFO charges for the year ended June 30, 2008. Unallocated interest expense increased $241 million primarily due to higher long term debt interest expense and decreased interest income. Corporate interest income decreased due to lower short term interest rates and lower working capital requirements of the operating segments. The Companys effective tax rate during 2009 was 32.5% compared to 31.1% during 2008. Income taxes increased $4 million. Lower pre tax earnings and positive impacts from favorable changes in geographic mix of earnings, currency translation impacts in South America, lower tax rates in certain foreign jurisdictions, and return to provision adjustments, were offset by charges of $158 million resulting from the restructuring of a holding company in which the Company holds a portion of its equity investment in Wilmar. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Liquidity and Capital Resources A Company objective is to have sufficient liquidity, balance sheet strength, and financial flexibility to fund the operating and capital requirements of a capital intensive agricultural commodity based business. The primary source of funds to finance the Companys operations and capital expenditures is cash generated by operations. In addition, the Company maintains a commercial paper borrowing facility and has access to equity and debt capital from public and private sources in both domestic and international markets. At June 30, 2010, the Company had $1.4 billion of cash, cash equivalents, and short term marketable securities and a current ratio, defined as current assets divided by current liabilities, of 2.1 to 1. Included in working capital is $4.9 billion of readily marketable commodity inventories. Cash generated by operating activities decreased to $2.7 billion for the year compared to $5.3 billion last year due primarily to a $3.1 billion decrease in 2009 working capital requirements related to lower agricultural commodity market prices. Cash used in investing activities was $1.7 billion compared to $1.9 billion last year. Cash used in financing activities was $1.0 billion for the year compared to $3.2 billion last year due principally to a decrease in repayments of commercial paper borrowings part ially offset by the repurchase of $500 million of long term debt. At June 30, 2010, the Companys capital resources included net worth of $14.6 billion and lines of credit totaling $6.0 billion, of which $5.7 billion was unused. The Companys ratio of long term debt to total capital (the sum of the Companys long term debt and shareholders equity) was 32% at June 30, 2010 and 36% at June 30, 2009. This ratio is a measure of the Companys long term liquidity and is an indicator of financial flexibility. Of the Companys total lines of credit, $4.2 billion support a commercial paper borrowing facility, against which there were no borrowings at June 30, 2010. The Company has outstanding $1.15 billion principal amount of convertible senior notes. As of June 30, 2010, none of the conditions permitting conversion of these notes had been satisfied. The Company has purchased call options and warrants intended to reduce the potential shareholder dilution upon future conversion of the notes. As of June 30, 2010, the market price of the Companys common stock was not greater than the exercise price of the purchased call options or warrants related to the convertible senior notes. In June 2008, the Company issued $1.75 billion of debentures as a component of Equity Units (see Note 8 in Item 8). The debentures will be remarketed in 2011. The Equity Units are a combination of debt and forward contracts for the holder to purchase the Companys common stock. Each purchase contract obligates the holder to purchase from the Company, no later than June 1, 2011, for a price of $50 in cash, a certain number of shares, ranging from 1.0453 shares to 1.2544 shares, of the Companys common stock, based on a formula established in the contract. The Companys credit facilities and certain debentures require the Company to comply with specified financial and non financial covenants including maintenance of minimum tangible net worth as well as limitations related to incurring liens, secured debt, and certain other financing arrangements. The Company is in compliance with these covenants as of June 30, 2010. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements In the normal course of business, the Company enters into contracts and commitments which obligate the Company to make payments in the future. The following table sets forth the Companys significant future obligations by time period. Purchases include commodity based contracts entered into in the normal course of business, which are further described in Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, energy related purchase contracts entered into in the normal course of business, and other purchase obligations related to the Companys normal business activities. The following table does not include unrecognized income tax benefits of $84 million as at June 30, 2010, due to uncertainty of the timing of deductibility. Where applicable, information included in the Companys consolidated financial statements and notes is cross referenced in this table. Payments Due by Period Contractual Item 8 Note Less than 1 3 3 5 More than Obligations Reference Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years (In millions) Purchases Inventories $ 9,949 $ 9,508 $ 417 $ 6 $ 18 Energy 498 284 137 31 46 Other 409 143 208 56 2 Total purchases 10,856 9,935 762 93 66 Short term debt 374 374 Long term debt Note 8 7,174 344 428 1,076 5,326 Estimated interest payments 7,928 381 700 636 6,211 Operating leases Note 13 1,381 235 371 333 442 Estimated pension and other postretirement plan contributions (1) Note 14 150 45 17 21 67 Total $ 27,863 $ 11,314 $ 2,278 $ 2,159 $ 12,112 (1) The Company is unable to estimate the amount of pension contributions beyond fiscal year 2011. For more information concerning the Companys pension and other postretirement plans, see Note 14 in Item 8. At June 30, 2010, the Company estimates it will spend approximately $1.5 billion through calendar year 2013 to complete currently approved capital projects which are not included in the table above. The Company also has outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds of $459 million at June 30, 2010. In addition, the Company has entered into agreements, primarily debt guarantee agreements related to equity method investees, which could obligate the Company to make future payments. The Companys liability under these agreements arises only if the primary entity fails to perform its contractual obligation. The Company has collateral for a portion of these contingent obligations. At June 30, 2010, these contingent obligations totaled approximately $131 million. Amounts outstanding for the primary entity under these contingent obligations were $74 million at June 30, 2010. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Critical Accounting Policies The process of preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the carrying values of the Companys assets and liabilities as well as the recognition of revenues and expenses. These estimates and judgments are based on the Companys historical experience and managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Certain of the Companys accounting policies are considered critical, as these policies are important to the depiction of the Companys financial statements and require significant or complex judgment by management. Management has discussed with the Companys Audit Committee the development, selection, disclosure, and application of these critical accounting policies. Following are the accounting policies management considers critical to the Companys financial statements. Inventories and Derivatives Certain of the Companys merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, forward fixed price purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts are valued at estimated market values. These merchandisable agricultural commodities are freely traded, have quoted market prices, and may be sold without significant additional processing. Management estimates market value based on exchange quoted prices, adjusted for differences in local markets. Changes in the market values of these inventories and contracts are recognized in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. If management used different methods or factors to estimate market value, amounts reported as inventories and cost of products sold coul d differ materially. Additionally, if market conditions change subsequent to year end, amounts reported in future periods as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. The Company, from time to time, uses derivative contracts designated as cash flow hedges to fix the purchase price of anticipated volumes of commodities to be purchased and processed in a future month, to fix the purchase price of the Companys anticipated natural gas requirements for certain production facilities, and to fix the sales price of anticipated volumes of ethanol. The change in the market value of such derivative contracts has historically been, and is expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold and net sales and other operating income in th e statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. If it is determined that the derivative instruments used are no longer effective at offsetting changes in the price of the hedged item, then the changes in the market value of these exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts would be recorded in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. Employee Benefit Plans The Company provides substantially all domestic employees and employees at certain international subsidiaries with pension benefits. Eligible domestic employees with five or more years of service prior to January 1, 2009 participate in a defined benefit pension plan. Eligible domestic employees hired on or after January 1, 2009 (and eligible salaried employees with less than five years of service prior to January 1, 2009) participate in a cash balance pension formula. The Company provides eligible domestic employees who retire under qualifying conditions with access to postretirement health care, at full cost to the retiree (certain employees are grandfather ed into subsidized coverage). In order to measure the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans, management makes several estimates and assumptions, including interest rates used to discount certain liabilities, rates of return on assets set aside to fund these plans, rates of compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and anticipated future health care costs. These estimates and assumptions are based on the Companys historical experience combined with managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Management also uses third party actuaries to assist in measuring the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans. If management used different estimates and assumptions regarding these plans, the funded status of the plans could vary significantly, and the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Income Taxes The Company frequently faces challenges from domestic and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company records reserves for estimates of potential additional tax owed by the Company. As an example, a subsidiary of the Company received a tax assessment in the amount of $456 million (subject to variation in currency exchange rates) consisting of tax, penalty, and interest from the Brazilian Federal Revenue Service challenging the deductibility of commodity hedging losses incurred by the Company in 2004. The Company evaluated its tax position rega rding these hedging transactions and concluded, based in part upon advice from Brazilian legal counsel, that it was appropriate to recognize the tax benefits of these deductions (See Note 12 in Item 8 for additional information). Deferred tax assets represent items to be used as tax deductions or credits in future tax returns, and the related tax benefit has already been recognized in the Companys income statement. The realization of the Companys deferred tax assets is dependent upon future taxable income in specific tax jurisdictions, the timing and amount of which are uncertain. The Company evaluates all available positive and negative evidence including estimated future reversals of existing temporary differences, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies, and recent financial results. Valuation allowances related to these deferred tax assets have been established to the extent the realization of the tax benefit is not likely. To the extent the Company were to favorably resolve matters for which accruals have been established or be required to pay amounts in excess of the aforementioned reserves, the Companys effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be impacted. Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and affiliated corporate joint ventures accounted for on the equity method are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned factors may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and cash flows of the Compa nys assets in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its factories. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment, technology, and companies related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. The Company evaluates goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives for impairment annually. Assets are written down after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these assets, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Valuation of Marketable Securities and Investments in Affiliates The Company classifies the majority of its marketable securities as available for sale and carries these securities at fair value. The Company applies the equity method for investments in investees over which the Company has the ability to exercise significant influence. These investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings and are adjusted, where appropriate, for amortizable basis differences between the investment balance and the underlying net assets of the investee. For publicly traded securities, the fair value of the Companys investments is readily available based on quoted market prices. For non publicly traded securities, managements assessment of fair value is based on valuation methodologies including discounted cash flows and estima tes of sales proceeds. In the event of a decline in fair value of an investment below carrying value, management is required to determine if the decline in fair value is other than temporary. In evaluating the nature of a decline in the fair value of an investment, management considers the market conditions, trends of earnings, discounted cash flows, trading volumes, and other key measures of the investment as well as the Companys ability and intent to hold the investment. When such a decline in value is deemed to be other than temporary, an impairment loss is recognized in the current period operating results to the extent of the decline. See Notes 5 and 6 in Item 8 for information regarding the Companys marketable securities and investments in affiliates. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these marketable securities, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in: commodity market prices as they relate to the Companys net commodity position, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and prices of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to factors such as changes in weather conditions, disease, plantings, government programs and policies, competition, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. To reduce price risk caused by market fluctuations, the Company generally follows a policy of using exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts to minimize its net position of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories and forward cash purchase and sales contracts. The Company will also use exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the volatility of the relationship between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contracts defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company, from time to time, enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold or net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) A sensitivity analysis has been prepared to estimate the Companys exposure to market risk of its daily net commodity position. The Companys daily net commodity position consists of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, related purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts, including those contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements. The fair value of such daily net commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing each net position at quoted futures prices. Market risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in such prices. Actual results may differ. 2010 2009 Long/(Short) Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest position $ 429 $ 43 $ 845 $ 85 Lowest position (667 ) (67 ) (1,342 ) (134 ) Average position (190 ) (19 ) (392 ) (39 ) The change in fair value of the average position for 2010 compared to 2009 was principally the result of changes in average quantities underlying the daily net commodity position. Currencies The Company conducts its business in over 60 countries. For the majority of the Companys subsidiaries located outside the United States, the local currency is the functional currency. In order to reduce the risks associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, except for amounts permanently invested as described below, the Company follows a policy of entering into currency exchange contracts to mitigate its foreign currency risk related to transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currencies applicable to each of its various entities, primarily the Euro, British pound, Canadian dollar, and Brazilian real. The instruments used are forward contracts, swaps with banks, exchange traded futures contracts, and over the counter options. The changes in marke t value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $6.4 billion at June 30, 2010, and $6.6 billion at June 30, 2009. This decrease is due to the depreciation of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar partially offset by an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The potential loss in fair value, which would principally be recognized in Other Comprehensive Income, resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $639 million and $664 million for 2010 and 2009, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical .5% decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2010 2009 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 7,700 $ 8,103 Excess of fair value over carrying value 870 511 Market risk 289 310 The decrease in fair value of long term debt in 2010 resulted principally from the repurchase of $500 million in aggregate principal amount of the Companys outstanding debentures. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Other includes the Companys remaining processing operations, consisting of activities related to processing agricultural commodities into food ingredient products such as wheat into wheat flour and cocoa into chocolate and cocoa products. Other also includes financial activities related to banking, captive insurance, private equity fund investments, futures commission merchant activities, and the Companys share of the results of its equity method investment in Gruma S.A.B. de C.V. Certain Corporate items are not allocated to the Companys reportable business segments. Corporate results include the impact of LIFO related adjustments, the after tax elimination of income attributable to mandatorily redeemable interests in consolidated subsidiaries, unallocated corporate expenses, and unallocated net interest costs. Operating Performance Indicators The Companys Oilseeds Processing, Agricultural Services, and wheat processing operations are principally agricultural commodity based businesses where changes in selling prices move in relationship to changes in prices of the commodity based agricultural raw materials. Thus, changes in agricultural commodity prices have relatively equal impacts on both sales revenue and cost of products sold. Therefore, changes in gross profit of these businesses do not necessarily correspond to the changes in net sales and other operating income amounts. The Companys Corn Processing operations and certain other food and animal feed processing operations also utilize agricultural commodities (or products derived from agricultural commodities) as raw materials. In these operations, agricultural commodity market price changes can result in significant fluctuations in cost of products sold, and such price changes cannot necessarily be passed directly through to the selling price of the finished products. The Company conducts its business in over 60 countries. For the majority of the Companys subsidiaries located outside the United States the local currency is the functional currency. Revenues and expenses denominated in foreign currencies are translated into U.S. dollars at the weighted average exchange rates for the applicable periods. For the majority of the Companys business activities in Brazil, the functional currency is the U.S. dollar, however certain transactions, including taxes, occur in local currency and require conversion to the functional currency. The impact of these currency exchange rate changes, where significant, is discussed in Item 7A. Fluctuations in the exchange rates of foreign currencies, primarily the Euro, British pound, Canadian dollar and Brazilian r eal, as compared to the U.S. dollar will result in corresponding fluctuations in the U.S. dollar value of revenues and expenses reported by the Company. The Company measures the performance of its business segments using key operating statistics such as segment operating profit, return on fixed capital investment, return on invested capital, and return on equity. The Companys operating results can vary significantly due to changes in factors such as fluctuations in energy prices, weather conditions, crop plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth, general global economic conditions, changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. Due to these unpredictable factors, the Company does not provide forward looking information in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) 2010 Compared to 2009 As an agricultural commodity based business, the Company is subject to a variety of market factors which affect the Companys operating results. Market expectations throughout most of fiscal 2010 for fewer global crop supply and demand imbalances, coupled with continuing uncertainty about short term demand, led to generally lower and less volatile agricultural commodity market prices and conditions. In addition, the late, extended U.S. harvest reduced profit opportunities. North American oilseed exports and domestic crushing volumes were enhanced by the poor supply of 2009 crop year soybeans in South America. Increased government mandates for the use of biodiesel in South America and Europe resulted in increased biodiesel demand and helped keep overall demand for refined and crude vegetable oil steady in these regions. However, in North America, demand for vegetable oils remained weak due to low consumption of oils in the food service and biodiesel industries, in part due to the expiration of the biodiesel blending credit in the U.S. on January 1, 2010. Soybean protein meal demand improved, particularly in Asia. Market prices for corn decreased resulting in lower raw material costs for Corn Processing and decreased average selling prices for sweeteners and starches. Lower energy, fuel and chemical costs per unit positively impacted the Companys manufacturing costs. More favorable ethanol blending economics together with increased ethanol merchandising activity resulted in increased demand, higher ethanol sales volumes, and improved margins. Earnings before income taxes for 2010 include a credit of $42 million from the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations, compared to a credit of $517 million in 2009. Income taxes decreased $146 million due to a lower effective income tax rate, partially offset by higher pretax earnings. Income taxes for 2009 included a $158 million charge resulting from the restructuring of a holding company in which the Company holds a portion of its equity investment in Wilmar. Analysis of Statements of Earnings Net sales and other operating income by segment are as follows: 2010 2009 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing & Origination $ 15,732 $ 15,579 $ 153 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel & Other 7,136 8,760 (1,624 ) Asia 190 179 11 Total Oilseeds Processing 23,058 24,518 (1,460 ) Corn Processing Sweeteners & Starches 3,333 3,785 (452 ) Bioproducts 4,609 3,938 671 Total Corn Processing 7,942 7,723 219 Agricultural Services Merchandising & Handling 25,273 31,342 (6,069 ) Transportation 167 242 (75 ) Total Agricultural Services 25,440 31,584 (6,144 ) Other Wheat, Cocoa & Malt 5,147 5,272 (125 ) Financial 95 110 (15 ) Total Other 5,242 5,382 (140 ) Total $ 61,682 $ 69,207 $ (7,525 ) Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Net sales and other operating income decreased 11% to $61.7 billion due principally to lower average selling prices in line with year over year declines in underlying commodity costs. Oilseeds Processing sales decreased 6% to $23.1 billion, due principally to lower average selling prices for soybeans, protein meal, refined oil, and biodiesel partially offset by increased sales volumes of soybeans and fertilizer. Corn Processing sales increased 3% to $7.9 billion primarily as a result of increased sales volumes of ethanol and lysine partially offset by lower average selling prices of ethanol, sweeteners, and starches. Agricultural Services sales decreased 19% to $25.4 billion, due to lower average selling prices, in line with year over year declines in underlying commodity prices, and lower sales volumes . Other sales decreased 3% to $5.2 billion, primarily due to lower average selling prices of wheat flour partially offset by increased wheat flour sales volumes and higher average selling prices and sales volumes for cocoa products. Cost of products sold decreased 11% to $57.8 billion, due principally to decreased agricultural commodity costs including the impact of changes in LIFO inventory valuations which reduced cost of products sold by $42 million in 2010 compared to $517 million in 2009. Manufacturing expenses decreased 1% or $60 million, primarily due to lower energy, chemical and fuel costs partially offset by higher employee related costs and a $124 million increase in depreciation and amortization expense. In 2010, manufacturing expenses included additional costs associated with the Companys new greenfield plants. Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased 1% to $1.4 billion, due principally to decreased provisions for doubtful accounts partially offset by increased expenses for legal, professional, and commercial services. Other (income) expense net improved $317 million primarily due to increased equity earnings of unconsolidated affiliates of $416 million, and decreased expense for the elimination of after tax mandatorily redeemable interests in consolidated subsidiaries. These increases were partially offset by pre tax charges of $75 million related to the early extinguishment of debt and $59 million for unrealized losses on interest rate swaps (for more information see Note 8 in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data). Equity earnings of unconsolidated affiliates in 2009 included a non cash charge of $275 million related to currency derivative losses of the Companys equity investee, Gruma S.A.B. de C.V. Income taxes decreased $146 million due to a lower effective income tax rate partially offset by higher pretax earnings. The Companys effective income tax rate during 2010 was 25.8%. In 2009, the effective income tax rate was 32.5% which included $158 million of income tax charges related to the partial restructuring of the holding company structure through which the Company holds a portion of its equity investment in Wilmar. Excluding these Wilmar charges, the Companys effective income tax rate for 2009 was 26.2%. For more information concerning Wilmar tax matters see Note 12 in Item 8. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Operating profit by segment is as follows: 2010 2009 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing & Origination $ 818 $ 767 $ 51 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel & Other 291 265 26 Asia 291 248 43 Total Oilseeds Processing 1,400 1,280 120 Corn Processing Sweeteners & Starches 529 500 29 Bioproducts 193 (315 ) 508 Total Corn Processing 722 185 537 Agricultural Services Merchandising & Handling 583 832 (249 ) Transportation 85 162 (77 ) Total Agricultural Services 668 994 (326 ) Other Wheat, Cocoa & Malt 403 51 352 Financial 46 (57 ) 103 Total Other 449 (6 ) 455 Total Segment Operating Profit 3,239 2,453 786 Corporate (see below) (654 ) 47 (701 ) Earnings Before Income Taxes $ 2,585 $ 2,500 $ 85 Corporate results are as follows: 2010 2009 Change (In millions) LIFO credit $ 42 $ 517 $ (475 ) Unallocated interest expense net (283 ) (192 ) (91 ) Unallocated corporate costs (266 ) (252 ) (14 ) Charges on early extinguishment of debt (75 ) (75 ) Unrealized losses on interest rate swaps (59 ) (59 ) Other (13 ) (26 ) 13 Total Corporate $ (654 ) $ 47 $ (701 ) Oilseeds Processing operating profit increased 9% to $1.4 billion. Crushing and origination results increased $51 million due to higher North American soybean crushing margins and favorable soft seed commodity positioning partially offset by lower soybean crushing margins in Europe and South America. Refining, packaging, biodiesel and other operating profit increased $26 million due primarily to higher South American biodiesel results and improved margins in Europe. Oilseeds processing results in Asia increased $43 million to $291 million due principally to improved equity earnings of Wilmar. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Corn Processing operating profit increased $537 million to $722 million. Bioproducts operating profit increased $508 million due to improved ethanol and lysine sales volumes and improved ethanol margins resulting from lower net corn costs and decreased manufacturing costs. Ethanol sales volumes increased due to favorable gasoline blending economics and increased merchandising activity. Sweeteners and starches operating profit increased $29 million due to lower net corn and manufacturing costs due principally to lower energy and chemical prices. These lower manufacturing costs were partially offset by lower average selling prices. Agricultural Services operating profit decreased $326 million to $668 million. Merchandising and handling results decreased $249 million. Enhanced volume and margin opportunities created by last years volatile commodity markets and tight credit markets did not recur. Volumes and margins in 2010 benefited from strong demand for U.S. soybean exports following the short South American 2009 crop. Transportation results decreased $77 million due to lower barge freight rates and decreased barge utilization levels resulting from weaker U.S. economic conditions and the late, extended North American harvest. Other operating profit increased $455 million to $449 million. Wheat, cocoa and malt operating profit increased $352 million due to improved equity earnings from the Companys investment in Gruma, improved wheat milling margins, and improved cocoa processing results. Financial operating profit increased $103 million due primarily to the absence of losses experienced last year from managed fund investments and captive insurance operations. Corporate results decreased $701 million. The effects of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations resulted in a credit of $42 million for the year ended June 30, 2010, compared to a credit of $517 million for the year ended June 30, 2009. Unallocated interest expense net increased $91 million reflecting a reduction in corporate interest income caused by lower short term interest rates and lower working capital requirements of the operating segments. In January 2010, the Company repurchased $500 million of long term debt which generated a $75 million pretax charge on early extinguishment of debt. In connection with a debt remarketing planned for 2011, the Company entered into interest rate swaps to fix the interest rate on a portion of the planned remarketing which result ed in $59 million of unrealized losses on interest rate swaps. 2009 Compared to 2008 As an agricultural commodity based business, the Company is subject to a variety of market factors which affect the Companys operating results. Net corn costs increased significantly in 2009 compared to 2008, negatively impacting ethanol margins, and, to a lesser extent, sweeteners and starches margins as the higher net corn costs were only partially offset by increased selling prices for sweeteners and starches. Additionally, lower demand for gasoline, decreased gasoline prices and excess ethanol industry capacity negatively impacted ethanol margins. Demand for agricultural commodities, freight, and other products was weaker during 2009 in line with the downturn in the global economy. Results were negatively impacted by decreased equity earnings in unconsolidated affiliates including significant non cash charges related to currency derivative losses incurred by the Companys equity investee, Gruma S.A.B. de C.V., and losses from the Companys managed fund investments. Earnings before income taxes for 2009 include a credit of $517 million from the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuation reserves, compared to a charge of $569 million in 2008. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Income taxes for 2009 include charges of $158 million resulting from the restructuring of a holding company in which the Company holds a portion of its equity investment in Wilmar. Analysis of Statements of Earnings Net sales and other operating income decreased 1% to $69.2 billion due to foreign exchange translation impacts and decreased sales volumes partially offset by higher average selling prices. Net sales and other operating income increased $3.0 billion due to higher average selling prices primarily related to higher underlying commodity costs, decreased $2.0 billion due to foreign exchange translation impacts, and decreased $1.6 billion due to lower sales volumes and other. Net sales and other operating income by segment are as follows: 2009 2008 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing & Origination $ 15,579 $ 14,477 $ 1,102 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel & Other 8,760 8,588 172 Asia 179 214 (35 ) Total Oilseeds Processing 24,518 23,279 1,239 Corn Processing Sweeteners & Starches 3,785 3,546 239 Bioproducts 3,938 3,591 347 Total Corn Processing 7,723 7,137 586 Agricultural Services Merchandising & Handling 31,342 33,749 (2,407 ) Transportation 242 219 23 Total Agricultural Services 31,584 33,968 (2,384 ) Other Wheat, Cocoa & Malt 5,272 5,335 (63 ) Financial 110 97 13 Total Other 5,382 5,432 (50 ) Total $ 69,207 $ 69,816 $ (609 ) Oilseeds Processing sales increased 5% to $24.5 billion due principally to increased sales volumes of merchandised oilseeds and biodiesel partially offset by lower sales volumes of vegetable oil and protein meal. Corn Processing sales increased 8% to $7.7 billion due principally to higher sales volumes of ethanol and higher average selling prices of sweeteners and starches, partially offset by lower average selling prices of ethanol. Agricultural Services sales decreased 7% to $31.6 billion due principally to lower sales volumes of grain. Other sales decreased 1% to $5.4 billion primarily due to the sale of the Companys malting business during the first quarter of fiscal year 2009 and lower average selling prices of wheat flour. Partially offsetting these decreases were higher average selling prices of cocoa products and increased chocolate sales volumes. Cost of products sold decreased 1% to $65.1 billion, in line with the decrease in net sales and other operating income. Cost of products sold decreased $856 million due principally to decreased sales volumes, decreased LIFO inventory valuations and approximately $1.9 billion from the impact of foreign currency translation, partially offset by increased agricultural commodity costs. Manufacturing expenses decreased $215 million primarily due to decreased energy and fuel costs. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Selling, general and administrative expenses of $1.4 billion were comparable to 2008. Decreased employee related costs and favorable impacts from foreign currency translation were offset by increases in provisions for doubtful accounts. Other (income) expense net decreased $348 million primarily due to decreased results from equity earnings of unconsolidated affiliates of $270 million, and decreased investment income. Equity earnings in unconsolidated affiliates included a non cash charge of $275 million of foreign exchange derivative losses incurred by the Companys equity investee, Gruma S.A.B. de C.V. Operating profit by segment is as follows: 2009 2008 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing & Origination $ 767 $ 727 $ 40 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel & Other 265 181 84 Asia 248 132 116 Total Oilseeds Processing 1,280 1,040 240 Corn Processing Sweeteners & Starches 500 557 (57 ) Bioproducts (315 ) 404 (719 ) Total Corn Processing 185 961 (776 ) Agricultural Services Merchandising & Handling 832 873 (41 ) Transportation 162 144 18 Total Agricultural Services 994 1,017 (23 ) Other Wheat, Cocoa & Malt 51 217 (166 ) Financial (57 ) 206 (263 ) Total Other (6 ) 423 (429 ) Total Segment Operating Profit 2,453 3,441 (988 ) Corporate (see below) 47 (847 ) 894 Earnings Before Income Taxes $ 2,500 $ 2,594 $ (94 ) Corporate results are as follows: 2009 2008 Change (In millions) LIFO credit (charge) $ 517 $ (569 ) $ 1,086 Interest expense (income) net (192 ) 49 (241 ) Corporate costs (252 ) (262 ) 10 Other (26 ) (65 ) 39 Total Corporate $ 47 $ (847 ) $ 894 Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Oilseeds Processing operating profit increased 23% to $1.3 billion. Crushing and origination results increased $40 million. Improved global crushing margins were partially offset by lower fertilizer sales volumes and margins and lower North American crushing volumes due to decreased demand for vegetable oil and protein meal. Refining, packaging, biodiesel and other results increased $84 million due principally to higher biodiesel sales volumes in South America and increased average margins for value added products. 2008 results for refining, packaging, biodiesel and other included asset abandonment charges of $27 million. Asia results increased $116 million due principally to the Companys share in improved operating results of Wilmar. Corn Processing operating profits decreased 81% to $185 million. Sweeteners and starches decreased $57 million due to the impact of higher net corn costs partially offset by higher average sweetener and starches selling prices. Bioproducts operating profit decreased $719 million for the year as ethanol and lysine margins declined significantly due to higher corn costs and lower average selling prices. Ethanol margins were also impacted by lower demand for gasoline, decreased gasoline prices, and excess ethanol industry capacity. Agricultural Services operating profits decreased 2% to $994 million. Merchandising and handling profit decreased $41 million. Merchandising margins moderated as demand for commodities slowed following the downturn in the global economy. Transportation results increased $18 million due to higher barge freight rates. Other operating profits decreased 101% to a loss of $6 million. Wheat, cocoa, and malt processing operating profit decreased $166 million for the year primarily due to equity losses from the Companys investment in Gruma, partially offset by improved cocoa and wheat processing margins. Financial operating profit decreased $263 million due to losses on managed fund investments compared to gains for the year ended June 30, 2008, increased captive insurance loss provisions and decreased interest income and lower marketable security gains of the Companys brokerage service business. Corporate results increased $894 million to $47 million, primarily due to the effects of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations which resulted in credits of $517 million for the year ended June 30, 2009, compared to $569 million of LIFO charges for the year ended June 30, 2008. Unallocated interest expense increased $241 million primarily due to higher long term debt interest expense and decreased interest income. Corporate interest income decreased due to lower short term interest rates and lower working capital requirements of the operating segments. The Companys effective tax rate during 2009 was 32.5% compared to 31.1% during 2008. Income taxes increased $4 million. Lower pre tax earnings and positive impacts from favorable changes in geographic mix of earnings, currency translation impacts in South America, lower tax rates in certain foreign jurisdictions, and return to provision adjustments, were offset by charges of $158 million resulting from the restructuring of a holding company in which the Company holds a portion of its equity investment in Wilmar. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Liquidity and Capital Resources A Company objective is to have sufficient liquidity, balance sheet strength, and financial flexibility to fund the operating and capital requirements of a capital intensive agricultural commodity based business. The primary source of funds to finance the Companys operations and capital expenditures is cash generated by operations. In addition, the Company maintains a commercial paper borrowing facility and has access to equity and debt capital from public and private sources in both domestic and international markets. At June 30, 2010, the Company had $1.4 billion of cash, cash equivalents, and short term marketable securities and a current ratio, defined as current assets divided by current liabilities, of 2.1 to 1. Included in working capital is $4.9 billion of readily marketable commodity inventories. Cash generated by operating activities decreased to $2.7 billion for the year compared to $5.3 billion last year due primarily to a $3.1 billion decrease in 2009 working capital requirements related to lower agricultural commodity market prices. Cash used in investing activities was $1.7 billion compared to $1.9 billion last year. Cash used in financing activities was $1.0 billion for the year compared to $3.2 billion last year due principally to a decrease in repayments of commercial paper borrowings part ially offset by the repurchase of $500 million of long term debt. At June 30, 2010, the Companys capital resources included net worth of $14.6 billion and lines of credit totaling $6.0 billion, of which $5.7 billion was unused. The Companys ratio of long term debt to total capital (the sum of the Companys long term debt and shareholders equity) was 32% at June 30, 2010 and 36% at June 30, 2009. This ratio is a measure of the Companys long term liquidity and is an indicator of financial flexibility. Of the Companys total lines of credit, $4.2 billion support a commercial paper borrowing facility, against which there were no borrowings at June 30, 2010. The Company has outstanding $1.15 billion principal amount of convertible senior notes. As of June 30, 2010, none of the conditions permitting conversion of these notes had been satisfied. The Company has purchased call options and warrants intended to reduce the potential shareholder dilution upon future conversion of the notes. As of June 30, 2010, the market price of the Companys common stock was not greater than the exercise price of the purchased call options or warrants related to the convertible senior notes. In June 2008, the Company issued $1.75 billion of debentures as a component of Equity Units (see Note 8 in Item 8). The debentures will be remarketed in 2011. The Equity Units are a combination of debt and forward contracts for the holder to purchase the Companys common stock. Each purchase contract obligates the holder to purchase from the Company, no later than June 1, 2011, for a price of $50 in cash, a certain number of shares, ranging from 1.0453 shares to 1.2544 shares, of the Companys common stock, based on a formula established in the contract. The Companys credit facilities and certain debentures require the Company to comply with specified financial and non financial covenants including maintenance of minimum tangible net worth as well as limitations related to incurring liens, secured debt, and certain other financing arrangements. The Company is in compliance with these covenants as of June 30, 2010. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements In the normal course of business, the Company enters into contracts and commitments which obligate the Company to make payments in the future. The following table sets forth the Companys significant future obligations by time period. Purchases include commodity based contracts entered into in the normal course of business, which are further described in Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, energy related purchase contracts entered into in the normal course of business, and other purchase obligations related to the Companys normal business activities. The following table does not include unrecognized income tax benefits of $84 million as at June 30, 2010, due to uncertainty of the timing of deductibility. Where applicable, information included in the Companys consolidated financial statements and notes is cross referenced in this table. Payments Due by Period Contractual Item 8 Note Less than 1 3 3 5 More than Obligations Reference Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years (In millions) Purchases Inventories $ 9,949 $ 9,508 $ 417 $ 6 $ 18 Energy 498 284 137 31 46 Other 409 143 208 56 2 Total purchases 10,856 9,935 762 93 66 Short term debt 374 374 Long term debt Note 8 7,174 344 428 1,076 5,326 Estimated interest payments 7,928 381 700 636 6,211 Operating leases Note 13 1,381 235 371 333 442 Estimated pension and other postretirement plan contributions (1) Note 14 150 45 17 21 67 Total $ 27,863 $ 11,314 $ 2,278 $ 2,159 $ 12,112 (1) The Company is unable to estimate the amount of pension contributions beyond fiscal year 2011. For more information concerning the Companys pension and other postretirement plans, see Note 14 in Item 8. At June 30, 2010, the Company estimates it will spend approximately $1.5 billion through calendar year 2013 to complete currently approved capital projects which are not included in the table above. The Company also has outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds of $459 million at June 30, 2010. In addition, the Company has entered into agreements, primarily debt guarantee agreements related to equity method investees, which could obligate the Company to make future payments. The Companys liability under these agreements arises only if the primary entity fails to perform its contractual obligation. The Company has collateral for a portion of these contingent obligations. At June 30, 2010, these contingent obligations totaled approximately $131 million. Amounts outstanding for the primary entity under these contingent obligations were $74 million at June 30, 2010. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Critical Accounting Policies The process of preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the carrying values of the Companys assets and liabilities as well as the recognition of revenues and expenses. These estimates and judgments are based on the Companys historical experience and managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Certain of the Companys accounting policies are considered critical, as these policies are important to the depiction of the Companys financial statements and require significant or complex judgment by management. Management has discussed with the Companys Audit Committee the development, selection, disclosure, and application of these critical accounting policies. Following are the accounting policies management considers critical to the Companys financial statements. Inventories and Derivatives Certain of the Companys merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, forward fixed price purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts are valued at estimated market values. These merchandisable agricultural commodities are freely traded, have quoted market prices, and may be sold without significant additional processing. Management estimates market value based on exchange quoted prices, adjusted for differences in local markets. Changes in the market values of these inventories and contracts are recognized in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. If management used different methods or factors to estimate market value, amounts reported as inventories and cost of products sold coul d differ materially. Additionally, if market conditions change subsequent to year end, amounts reported in future periods as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. The Company, from time to time, uses derivative contracts designated as cash flow hedges to fix the purchase price of anticipated volumes of commodities to be purchased and processed in a future month, to fix the purchase price of the Companys anticipated natural gas requirements for certain production facilities, and to fix the sales price of anticipated volumes of ethanol. The change in the market value of such derivative contracts has historically been, and is expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold and net sales and other operating income in th e statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. If it is determined that the derivative instruments used are no longer effective at offsetting changes in the price of the hedged item, then the changes in the market value of these exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts would be recorded in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. Employee Benefit Plans The Company provides substantially all domestic employees and employees at certain international subsidiaries with pension benefits. Eligible domestic employees with five or more years of service prior to January 1, 2009 participate in a defined benefit pension plan. Eligible domestic employees hired on or after January 1, 2009 (and eligible salaried employees with less than five years of service prior to January 1, 2009) participate in a cash balance pension formula. The Company provides eligible domestic employees who retire under qualifying conditions with access to postretirement health care, at full cost to the retiree (certain employees are grandfather ed into subsidized coverage). In order to measure the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans, management makes several estimates and assumptions, including interest rates used to discount certain liabilities, rates of return on assets set aside to fund these plans, rates of compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and anticipated future health care costs. These estimates and assumptions are based on the Companys historical experience combined with managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Management also uses third party actuaries to assist in measuring the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans. If management used different estimates and assumptions regarding these plans, the funded status of the plans could vary significantly, and the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Income Taxes The Company frequently faces challenges from domestic and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company records reserves for estimates of potential additional tax owed by the Company. As an example, a subsidiary of the Company received a tax assessment in the amount of $456 million (subject to variation in currency exchange rates) consisting of tax, penalty, and interest from the Brazilian Federal Revenue Service challenging the deductibility of commodity hedging losses incurred by the Company in 2004. The Company evaluated its tax position rega rding these hedging transactions and concluded, based in part upon advice from Brazilian legal counsel, that it was appropriate to recognize the tax benefits of these deductions (See Note 12 in Item 8 for additional information). Deferred tax assets represent items to be used as tax deductions or credits in future tax returns, and the related tax benefit has already been recognized in the Companys income statement. The realization of the Companys deferred tax assets is dependent upon future taxable income in specific tax jurisdictions, the timing and amount of which are uncertain. The Company evaluates all available positive and negative evidence including estimated future reversals of existing temporary differences, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies, and recent financial results. Valuation allowances related to these deferred tax assets have been established to the extent the realization of the tax benefit is not likely. To the extent the Company were to favorably resolve matters for which accruals have been established or be required to pay amounts in excess of the aforementioned reserves, the Companys effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be impacted. Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and affiliated corporate joint ventures accounted for on the equity method are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned factors may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and cash flows of the Compa nys assets in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its factories. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment, technology, and companies related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. The Company evaluates goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives for impairment annually. Assets are written down after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these assets, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Valuation of Marketable Securities and Investments in Affiliates The Company classifies the majority of its marketable securities as available for sale and carries these securities at fair value. The Company applies the equity method for investments in investees over which the Company has the ability to exercise significant influence. These investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings and are adjusted, where appropriate, for amortizable basis differences between the investment balance and the underlying net assets of the investee. For publicly traded securities, the fair value of the Companys investments is readily available based on quoted market prices. For non publicly traded securities, managements assessment of fair value is based on valuation methodologies including discounted cash flows and estima tes of sales proceeds. In the event of a decline in fair value of an investment below carrying value, management is required to determine if the decline in fair value is other than temporary. In evaluating the nature of a decline in the fair value of an investment, management considers the market conditions, trends of earnings, discounted cash flows, trading volumes, and other key measures of the investment as well as the Companys ability and intent to hold the investment. When such a decline in value is deemed to be other than temporary, an impairment loss is recognized in the current period operating results to the extent of the decline. See Notes 5 and 6 in Item 8 for information regarding the Companys marketable securities and investments in affiliates. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these marketable securities, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in: commodity market prices as they relate to the Companys net commodity position, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and prices of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to factors such as changes in weather conditions, disease, plantings, government programs and policies, competition, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. To reduce price risk caused by market fluctuations, the Company generally follows a policy of using exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts to minimize its net position of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories and forward cash purchase and sales contracts. The Company will also use exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the volatility of the relationship between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contracts defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company, from time to time, enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold or net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) A sensitivity analysis has been prepared to estimate the Companys exposure to market risk of its daily net commodity position. The Companys daily net commodity position consists of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, related purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts, including those contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements. The fair value of such daily net commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing each net position at quoted futures prices. Market risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in such prices. Actual results may differ. 2010 2009 Long/(Short) Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest position $ 429 $ 43 $ 845 $ 85 Lowest position (667 ) (67 ) (1,342 ) (134 ) Average position (190 ) (19 ) (392 ) (39 ) The change in fair value of the average position for 2010 compared to 2009 was principally the result of changes in average quantities underlying the daily net commodity position. Currencies The Company conducts its business in over 60 countries. For the majority of the Companys subsidiaries located outside the United States, the local currency is the functional currency. In order to reduce the risks associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, except for amounts permanently invested as described below, the Company follows a policy of entering into currency exchange contracts to mitigate its foreign currency risk related to transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currencies applicable to each of its various entities, primarily the Euro, British pound, Canadian dollar, and Brazilian real. The instruments used are forward contracts, swaps with banks, exchange traded futures contracts, and over the counter options. The changes in marke t value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $6.4 billion at June 30, 2010, and $6.6 billion at June 30, 2009. This decrease is due to the depreciation of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar partially offset by an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The potential loss in fair value, which would principally be recognized in Other Comprehensive Income, resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $639 million and $664 million for 2010 and 2009, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical .5% decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2010 2009 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 7,700 $ 8,103 Excess of fair value over carrying value 870 511 Market risk 289 310 The decrease in fair value of long term debt in 2010 resulted principally from the repurchase of $500 million in aggregate principal amount of the Companys outstanding debentures. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) 2010 Compared to 2009 As an agricultural commodity based business, the Company is subject to a variety of market factors which affect the Companys operating results. Market expectations throughout most of fiscal 2010 for fewer global crop supply and demand imbalances, coupled with continuing uncertainty about short term demand, led to generally lower and less volatile agricultural commodity market prices and conditions. In addition, the late, extended U.S. harvest reduced profit opportunities. North American oilseed exports and domestic crushing volumes were enhanced by the poor supply of 2009 crop year soybeans in South America. Increased government mandates for the use of biodiesel in South America and Europe resulted in increased biodiesel demand and helped keep overall demand for refined and crude vegetable oil steady in these regions. However, in North America, demand for vegetable oils remained weak due to low consumption of oils in the food service and biodiesel industries, in part due to the expiration of the biodiesel blending credit in the U.S. on January 1, 2010. Soybean protein meal demand improved, particularly in Asia. Market prices for corn decreased resulting in lower raw material costs for Corn Processing and decreased average selling prices for sweeteners and starches. Lower energy, fuel and chemical costs per unit positively impacted the Companys manufacturing costs. More favorable ethanol blending economics together with increased ethanol merchandising activity resulted in increased demand, higher ethanol sales volumes, and improved margins. Earnings before income taxes for 2010 include a credit of $42 million from the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations, compared to a credit of $517 million in 2009. Income taxes decreased $146 million due to a lower effective income tax rate, partially offset by higher pretax earnings. Income taxes for 2009 included a $158 million charge resulting from the restructuring of a holding company in which the Company holds a portion of its equity investment in Wilmar. Analysis of Statements of Earnings Net sales and other operating income by segment are as follows: 2010 2009 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing & Origination $ 15,732 $ 15,579 $ 153 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel & Other 7,136 8,760 (1,624 ) Asia 190 179 11 Total Oilseeds Processing 23,058 24,518 (1,460 ) Corn Processing Sweeteners & Starches 3,333 3,785 (452 ) Bioproducts 4,609 3,938 671 Total Corn Processing 7,942 7,723 219 Agricultural Services Merchandising & Handling 25,273 31,342 (6,069 ) Transportation 167 242 (75 ) Total Agricultural Services 25,440 31,584 (6,144 ) Other Wheat, Cocoa & Malt 5,147 5,272 (125 ) Financial 95 110 (15 ) Total Other 5,242 5,382 (140 ) Total $ 61,682 $ 69,207 $ (7,525 ) Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Net sales and other operating income decreased 11% to $61.7 billion due principally to lower average selling prices in line with year over year declines in underlying commodity costs. Oilseeds Processing sales decreased 6% to $23.1 billion, due principally to lower average selling prices for soybeans, protein meal, refined oil, and biodiesel partially offset by increased sales volumes of soybeans and fertilizer. Corn Processing sales increased 3% to $7.9 billion primarily as a result of increased sales volumes of ethanol and lysine partially offset by lower average selling prices of ethanol, sweeteners, and starches. Agricultural Services sales decreased 19% to $25.4 billion, due to lower average selling prices, in line with year over year declines in underlying commodity prices, and lower sales volumes . Other sales decreased 3% to $5.2 billion, primarily due to lower average selling prices of wheat flour partially offset by increased wheat flour sales volumes and higher average selling prices and sales volumes for cocoa products. Cost of products sold decreased 11% to $57.8 billion, due principally to decreased agricultural commodity costs including the impact of changes in LIFO inventory valuations which reduced cost of products sold by $42 million in 2010 compared to $517 million in 2009. Manufacturing expenses decreased 1% or $60 million, primarily due to lower energy, chemical and fuel costs partially offset by higher employee related costs and a $124 million increase in depreciation and amortization expense. In 2010, manufacturing expenses included additional costs associated with the Companys new greenfield plants. Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased 1% to $1.4 billion, due principally to decreased provisions for doubtful accounts partially offset by increased expenses for legal, professional, and commercial services. Other (income) expense net improved $317 million primarily due to increased equity earnings of unconsolidated affiliates of $416 million, and decreased expense for the elimination of after tax mandatorily redeemable interests in consolidated subsidiaries. These increases were partially offset by pre tax charges of $75 million related to the early extinguishment of debt and $59 million for unrealized losses on interest rate swaps (for more information see Note 8 in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data). Equity earnings of unconsolidated affiliates in 2009 included a non cash charge of $275 million related to currency derivative losses of the Companys equity investee, Gruma S.A.B. de C.V. Income taxes decreased $146 million due to a lower effective income tax rate partially offset by higher pretax earnings. The Companys effective income tax rate during 2010 was 25.8%. In 2009, the effective income tax rate was 32.5% which included $158 million of income tax charges related to the partial restructuring of the holding company structure through which the Company holds a portion of its equity investment in Wilmar. Excluding these Wilmar charges, the Companys effective income tax rate for 2009 was 26.2%. For more information concerning Wilmar tax matters see Note 12 in Item 8. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Operating profit by segment is as follows: 2010 2009 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing & Origination $ 818 $ 767 $ 51 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel & Other 291 265 26 Asia 291 248 43 Total Oilseeds Processing 1,400 1,280 120 Corn Processing Sweeteners & Starches 529 500 29 Bioproducts 193 (315 ) 508 Total Corn Processing 722 185 537 Agricultural Services Merchandising & Handling 583 832 (249 ) Transportation 85 162 (77 ) Total Agricultural Services 668 994 (326 ) Other Wheat, Cocoa & Malt 403 51 352 Financial 46 (57 ) 103 Total Other 449 (6 ) 455 Total Segment Operating Profit 3,239 2,453 786 Corporate (see below) (654 ) 47 (701 ) Earnings Before Income Taxes $ 2,585 $ 2,500 $ 85 Corporate results are as follows: 2010 2009 Change (In millions) LIFO credit $ 42 $ 517 $ (475 ) Unallocated interest expense net (283 ) (192 ) (91 ) Unallocated corporate costs (266 ) (252 ) (14 ) Charges on early extinguishment of debt (75 ) (75 ) Unrealized losses on interest rate swaps (59 ) (59 ) Other (13 ) (26 ) 13 Total Corporate $ (654 ) $ 47 $ (701 ) Oilseeds Processing operating profit increased 9% to $1.4 billion. Crushing and origination results increased $51 million due to higher North American soybean crushing margins and favorable soft seed commodity positioning partially offset by lower soybean crushing margins in Europe and South America. Refining, packaging, biodiesel and other operating profit increased $26 million due primarily to higher South American biodiesel results and improved margins in Europe. Oilseeds processing results in Asia increased $43 million to $291 million due principally to improved equity earnings of Wilmar. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Corn Processing operating profit increased $537 million to $722 million. Bioproducts operating profit increased $508 million due to improved ethanol and lysine sales volumes and improved ethanol margins resulting from lower net corn costs and decreased manufacturing costs. Ethanol sales volumes increased due to favorable gasoline blending economics and increased merchandising activity. Sweeteners and starches operating profit increased $29 million due to lower net corn and manufacturing costs due principally to lower energy and chemical prices. These lower manufacturing costs were partially offset by lower average selling prices. Agricultural Services operating profit decreased $326 million to $668 million. Merchandising and handling results decreased $249 million. Enhanced volume and margin opportunities created by last years volatile commodity markets and tight credit markets did not recur. Volumes and margins in 2010 benefited from strong demand for U.S. soybean exports following the short South American 2009 crop. Transportation results decreased $77 million due to lower barge freight rates and decreased barge utilization levels resulting from weaker U.S. economic conditions and the late, extended North American harvest. Other operating profit increased $455 million to $449 million. Wheat, cocoa and malt operating profit increased $352 million due to improved equity earnings from the Companys investment in Gruma, improved wheat milling margins, and improved cocoa processing results. Financial operating profit increased $103 million due primarily to the absence of losses experienced last year from managed fund investments and captive insurance operations. Corporate results decreased $701 million. The effects of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations resulted in a credit of $42 million for the year ended June 30, 2010, compared to a credit of $517 million for the year ended June 30, 2009. Unallocated interest expense net increased $91 million reflecting a reduction in corporate interest income caused by lower short term interest rates and lower working capital requirements of the operating segments. In January 2010, the Company repurchased $500 million of long term debt which generated a $75 million pretax charge on early extinguishment of debt. In connection with a debt remarketing planned for 2011, the Company entered into interest rate swaps to fix the interest rate on a portion of the planned remarketing which result ed in $59 million of unrealized losses on interest rate swaps. 2009 Compared to 2008 As an agricultural commodity based business, the Company is subject to a variety of market factors which affect the Companys operating results. Net corn costs increased significantly in 2009 compared to 2008, negatively impacting ethanol margins, and, to a lesser extent, sweeteners and starches margins as the higher net corn costs were only partially offset by increased selling prices for sweeteners and starches. Additionally, lower demand for gasoline, decreased gasoline prices and excess ethanol industry capacity negatively impacted ethanol margins. Demand for agricultural commodities, freight, and other products was weaker during 2009 in line with the downturn in the global economy. Results were negatively impacted by decreased equity earnings in unconsolidated affiliates including significant non cash charges related to currency derivative losses incurred by the Companys equity investee, Gruma S.A.B. de C.V., and losses from the Companys managed fund investments. Earnings before income taxes for 2009 include a credit of $517 million from the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuation reserves, compared to a charge of $569 million in 2008. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Income taxes for 2009 include charges of $158 million resulting from the restructuring of a holding company in which the Company holds a portion of its equity investment in Wilmar. Analysis of Statements of Earnings Net sales and other operating income decreased 1% to $69.2 billion due to foreign exchange translation impacts and decreased sales volumes partially offset by higher average selling prices. Net sales and other operating income increased $3.0 billion due to higher average selling prices primarily related to higher underlying commodity costs, decreased $2.0 billion due to foreign exchange translation impacts, and decreased $1.6 billion due to lower sales volumes and other. Net sales and other operating income by segment are as follows: 2009 2008 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing & Origination $ 15,579 $ 14,477 $ 1,102 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel & Other 8,760 8,588 172 Asia 179 214 (35 ) Total Oilseeds Processing 24,518 23,279 1,239 Corn Processing Sweeteners & Starches 3,785 3,546 239 Bioproducts 3,938 3,591 347 Total Corn Processing 7,723 7,137 586 Agricultural Services Merchandising & Handling 31,342 33,749 (2,407 ) Transportation 242 219 23 Total Agricultural Services 31,584 33,968 (2,384 ) Other Wheat, Cocoa & Malt 5,272 5,335 (63 ) Financial 110 97 13 Total Other 5,382 5,432 (50 ) Total $ 69,207 $ 69,816 $ (609 ) Oilseeds Processing sales increased 5% to $24.5 billion due principally to increased sales volumes of merchandised oilseeds and biodiesel partially offset by lower sales volumes of vegetable oil and protein meal. Corn Processing sales increased 8% to $7.7 billion due principally to higher sales volumes of ethanol and higher average selling prices of sweeteners and starches, partially offset by lower average selling prices of ethanol. Agricultural Services sales decreased 7% to $31.6 billion due principally to lower sales volumes of grain. Other sales decreased 1% to $5.4 billion primarily due to the sale of the Companys malting business during the first quarter of fiscal year 2009 and lower average selling prices of wheat flour. Partially offsetting these decreases were higher average selling prices of cocoa products and increased chocolate sales volumes. Cost of products sold decreased 1% to $65.1 billion, in line with the decrease in net sales and other operating income. Cost of products sold decreased $856 million due principally to decreased sales volumes, decreased LIFO inventory valuations and approximately $1.9 billion from the impact of foreign currency translation, partially offset by increased agricultural commodity costs. Manufacturing expenses decreased $215 million primarily due to decreased energy and fuel costs. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Selling, general and administrative expenses of $1.4 billion were comparable to 2008. Decreased employee related costs and favorable impacts from foreign currency translation were offset by increases in provisions for doubtful accounts. Other (income) expense net decreased $348 million primarily due to decreased results from equity earnings of unconsolidated affiliates of $270 million, and decreased investment income. Equity earnings in unconsolidated affiliates included a non cash charge of $275 million of foreign exchange derivative losses incurred by the Companys equity investee, Gruma S.A.B. de C.V. Operating profit by segment is as follows: 2009 2008 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing & Origination $ 767 $ 727 $ 40 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel & Other 265 181 84 Asia 248 132 116 Total Oilseeds Processing 1,280 1,040 240 Corn Processing Sweeteners & Starches 500 557 (57 ) Bioproducts (315 ) 404 (719 ) Total Corn Processing 185 961 (776 ) Agricultural Services Merchandising & Handling 832 873 (41 ) Transportation 162 144 18 Total Agricultural Services 994 1,017 (23 ) Other Wheat, Cocoa & Malt 51 217 (166 ) Financial (57 ) 206 (263 ) Total Other (6 ) 423 (429 ) Total Segment Operating Profit 2,453 3,441 (988 ) Corporate (see below) 47 (847 ) 894 Earnings Before Income Taxes $ 2,500 $ 2,594 $ (94 ) Corporate results are as follows: 2009 2008 Change (In millions) LIFO credit (charge) $ 517 $ (569 ) $ 1,086 Interest expense (income) net (192 ) 49 (241 ) Corporate costs (252 ) (262 ) 10 Other (26 ) (65 ) 39 Total Corporate $ 47 $ (847 ) $ 894 Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Oilseeds Processing operating profit increased 23% to $1.3 billion. Crushing and origination results increased $40 million. Improved global crushing margins were partially offset by lower fertilizer sales volumes and margins and lower North American crushing volumes due to decreased demand for vegetable oil and protein meal. Refining, packaging, biodiesel and other results increased $84 million due principally to higher biodiesel sales volumes in South America and increased average margins for value added products. 2008 results for refining, packaging, biodiesel and other included asset abandonment charges of $27 million. Asia results increased $116 million due principally to the Companys share in improved operating results of Wilmar. Corn Processing operating profits decreased 81% to $185 million. Sweeteners and starches decreased $57 million due to the impact of higher net corn costs partially offset by higher average sweetener and starches selling prices. Bioproducts operating profit decreased $719 million for the year as ethanol and lysine margins declined significantly due to higher corn costs and lower average selling prices. Ethanol margins were also impacted by lower demand for gasoline, decreased gasoline prices, and excess ethanol industry capacity. Agricultural Services operating profits decreased 2% to $994 million. Merchandising and handling profit decreased $41 million. Merchandising margins moderated as demand for commodities slowed following the downturn in the global economy. Transportation results increased $18 million due to higher barge freight rates. Other operating profits decreased 101% to a loss of $6 million. Wheat, cocoa, and malt processing operating profit decreased $166 million for the year primarily due to equity losses from the Companys investment in Gruma, partially offset by improved cocoa and wheat processing margins. Financial operating profit decreased $263 million due to losses on managed fund investments compared to gains for the year ended June 30, 2008, increased captive insurance loss provisions and decreased interest income and lower marketable security gains of the Companys brokerage service business. Corporate results increased $894 million to $47 million, primarily due to the effects of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations which resulted in credits of $517 million for the year ended June 30, 2009, compared to $569 million of LIFO charges for the year ended June 30, 2008. Unallocated interest expense increased $241 million primarily due to higher long term debt interest expense and decreased interest income. Corporate interest income decreased due to lower short term interest rates and lower working capital requirements of the operating segments. The Companys effective tax rate during 2009 was 32.5% compared to 31.1% during 2008. Income taxes increased $4 million. Lower pre tax earnings and positive impacts from favorable changes in geographic mix of earnings, currency translation impacts in South America, lower tax rates in certain foreign jurisdictions, and return to provision adjustments, were offset by charges of $158 million resulting from the restructuring of a holding company in which the Company holds a portion of its equity investment in Wilmar. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Liquidity and Capital Resources A Company objective is to have sufficient liquidity, balance sheet strength, and financial flexibility to fund the operating and capital requirements of a capital intensive agricultural commodity based business. The primary source of funds to finance the Companys operations and capital expenditures is cash generated by operations. In addition, the Company maintains a commercial paper borrowing facility and has access to equity and debt capital from public and private sources in both domestic and international markets. At June 30, 2010, the Company had $1.4 billion of cash, cash equivalents, and short term marketable securities and a current ratio, defined as current assets divided by current liabilities, of 2.1 to 1. Included in working capital is $4.9 billion of readily marketable commodity inventories. Cash generated by operating activities decreased to $2.7 billion for the year compared to $5.3 billion last year due primarily to a $3.1 billion decrease in 2009 working capital requirements related to lower agricultural commodity market prices. Cash used in investing activities was $1.7 billion compared to $1.9 billion last year. Cash used in financing activities was $1.0 billion for the year compared to $3.2 billion last year due principally to a decrease in repayments of commercial paper borrowings part ially offset by the repurchase of $500 million of long term debt. At June 30, 2010, the Companys capital resources included net worth of $14.6 billion and lines of credit totaling $6.0 billion, of which $5.7 billion was unused. The Companys ratio of long term debt to total capital (the sum of the Companys long term debt and shareholders equity) was 32% at June 30, 2010 and 36% at June 30, 2009. This ratio is a measure of the Companys long term liquidity and is an indicator of financial flexibility. Of the Companys total lines of credit, $4.2 billion support a commercial paper borrowing facility, against which there were no borrowings at June 30, 2010. The Company has outstanding $1.15 billion principal amount of convertible senior notes. As of June 30, 2010, none of the conditions permitting conversion of these notes had been satisfied. The Company has purchased call options and warrants intended to reduce the potential shareholder dilution upon future conversion of the notes. As of June 30, 2010, the market price of the Companys common stock was not greater than the exercise price of the purchased call options or warrants related to the convertible senior notes. In June 2008, the Company issued $1.75 billion of debentures as a component of Equity Units (see Note 8 in Item 8). The debentures will be remarketed in 2011. The Equity Units are a combination of debt and forward contracts for the holder to purchase the Companys common stock. Each purchase contract obligates the holder to purchase from the Company, no later than June 1, 2011, for a price of $50 in cash, a certain number of shares, ranging from 1.0453 shares to 1.2544 shares, of the Companys common stock, based on a formula established in the contract. The Companys credit facilities and certain debentures require the Company to comply with specified financial and non financial covenants including maintenance of minimum tangible net worth as well as limitations related to incurring liens, secured debt, and certain other financing arrangements. The Company is in compliance with these covenants as of June 30, 2010. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements In the normal course of business, the Company enters into contracts and commitments which obligate the Company to make payments in the future. The following table sets forth the Companys significant future obligations by time period. Purchases include commodity based contracts entered into in the normal course of business, which are further described in Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, energy related purchase contracts entered into in the normal course of business, and other purchase obligations related to the Companys normal business activities. The following table does not include unrecognized income tax benefits of $84 million as at June 30, 2010, due to uncertainty of the timing of deductibility. Where applicable, information included in the Companys consolidated financial statements and notes is cross referenced in this table. Payments Due by Period Contractual Item 8 Note Less than 1 3 3 5 More than Obligations Reference Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years (In millions) Purchases Inventories $ 9,949 $ 9,508 $ 417 $ 6 $ 18 Energy 498 284 137 31 46 Other 409 143 208 56 2 Total purchases 10,856 9,935 762 93 66 Short term debt 374 374 Long term debt Note 8 7,174 344 428 1,076 5,326 Estimated interest payments 7,928 381 700 636 6,211 Operating leases Note 13 1,381 235 371 333 442 Estimated pension and other postretirement plan contributions (1) Note 14 150 45 17 21 67 Total $ 27,863 $ 11,314 $ 2,278 $ 2,159 $ 12,112 (1) The Company is unable to estimate the amount of pension contributions beyond fiscal year 2011. For more information concerning the Companys pension and other postretirement plans, see Note 14 in Item 8. At June 30, 2010, the Company estimates it will spend approximately $1.5 billion through calendar year 2013 to complete currently approved capital projects which are not included in the table above. The Company also has outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds of $459 million at June 30, 2010. In addition, the Company has entered into agreements, primarily debt guarantee agreements related to equity method investees, which could obligate the Company to make future payments. The Companys liability under these agreements arises only if the primary entity fails to perform its contractual obligation. The Company has collateral for a portion of these contingent obligations. At June 30, 2010, these contingent obligations totaled approximately $131 million. Amounts outstanding for the primary entity under these contingent obligations were $74 million at June 30, 2010. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Critical Accounting Policies The process of preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the carrying values of the Companys assets and liabilities as well as the recognition of revenues and expenses. These estimates and judgments are based on the Companys historical experience and managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Certain of the Companys accounting policies are considered critical, as these policies are important to the depiction of the Companys financial statements and require significant or complex judgment by management. Management has discussed with the Companys Audit Committee the development, selection, disclosure, and application of these critical accounting policies. Following are the accounting policies management considers critical to the Companys financial statements. Inventories and Derivatives Certain of the Companys merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, forward fixed price purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts are valued at estimated market values. These merchandisable agricultural commodities are freely traded, have quoted market prices, and may be sold without significant additional processing. Management estimates market value based on exchange quoted prices, adjusted for differences in local markets. Changes in the market values of these inventories and contracts are recognized in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. If management used different methods or factors to estimate market value, amounts reported as inventories and cost of products sold coul d differ materially. Additionally, if market conditions change subsequent to year end, amounts reported in future periods as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. The Company, from time to time, uses derivative contracts designated as cash flow hedges to fix the purchase price of anticipated volumes of commodities to be purchased and processed in a future month, to fix the purchase price of the Companys anticipated natural gas requirements for certain production facilities, and to fix the sales price of anticipated volumes of ethanol. The change in the market value of such derivative contracts has historically been, and is expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold and net sales and other operating income in th e statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. If it is determined that the derivative instruments used are no longer effective at offsetting changes in the price of the hedged item, then the changes in the market value of these exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts would be recorded in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. Employee Benefit Plans The Company provides substantially all domestic employees and employees at certain international subsidiaries with pension benefits. Eligible domestic employees with five or more years of service prior to January 1, 2009 participate in a defined benefit pension plan. Eligible domestic employees hired on or after January 1, 2009 (and eligible salaried employees with less than five years of service prior to January 1, 2009) participate in a cash balance pension formula. The Company provides eligible domestic employees who retire under qualifying conditions with access to postretirement health care, at full cost to the retiree (certain employees are grandfather ed into subsidized coverage). In order to measure the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans, management makes several estimates and assumptions, including interest rates used to discount certain liabilities, rates of return on assets set aside to fund these plans, rates of compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and anticipated future health care costs. These estimates and assumptions are based on the Companys historical experience combined with managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Management also uses third party actuaries to assist in measuring the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans. If management used different estimates and assumptions regarding these plans, the funded status of the plans could vary significantly, and the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Income Taxes The Company frequently faces challenges from domestic and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company records reserves for estimates of potential additional tax owed by the Company. As an example, a subsidiary of the Company received a tax assessment in the amount of $456 million (subject to variation in currency exchange rates) consisting of tax, penalty, and interest from the Brazilian Federal Revenue Service challenging the deductibility of commodity hedging losses incurred by the Company in 2004. The Company evaluated its tax position rega rding these hedging transactions and concluded, based in part upon advice from Brazilian legal counsel, that it was appropriate to recognize the tax benefits of these deductions (See Note 12 in Item 8 for additional information). Deferred tax assets represent items to be used as tax deductions or credits in future tax returns, and the related tax benefit has already been recognized in the Companys income statement. The realization of the Companys deferred tax assets is dependent upon future taxable income in specific tax jurisdictions, the timing and amount of which are uncertain. The Company evaluates all available positive and negative evidence including estimated future reversals of existing temporary differences, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies, and recent financial results. Valuation allowances related to these deferred tax assets have been established to the extent the realization of the tax benefit is not likely. To the extent the Company were to favorably resolve matters for which accruals have been established or be required to pay amounts in excess of the aforementioned reserves, the Companys effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be impacted. Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and affiliated corporate joint ventures accounted for on the equity method are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned factors may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and cash flows of the Compa nys assets in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its factories. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment, technology, and companies related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. The Company evaluates goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives for impairment annually. Assets are written down after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these assets, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Valuation of Marketable Securities and Investments in Affiliates The Company classifies the majority of its marketable securities as available for sale and carries these securities at fair value. The Company applies the equity method for investments in investees over which the Company has the ability to exercise significant influence. These investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings and are adjusted, where appropriate, for amortizable basis differences between the investment balance and the underlying net assets of the investee. For publicly traded securities, the fair value of the Companys investments is readily available based on quoted market prices. For non publicly traded securities, managements assessment of fair value is based on valuation methodologies including discounted cash flows and estima tes of sales proceeds. In the event of a decline in fair value of an investment below carrying value, management is required to determine if the decline in fair value is other than temporary. In evaluating the nature of a decline in the fair value of an investment, management considers the market conditions, trends of earnings, discounted cash flows, trading volumes, and other key measures of the investment as well as the Companys ability and intent to hold the investment. When such a decline in value is deemed to be other than temporary, an impairment loss is recognized in the current period operating results to the extent of the decline. See Notes 5 and 6 in Item 8 for information regarding the Companys marketable securities and investments in affiliates. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these marketable securities, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in: commodity market prices as they relate to the Companys net commodity position, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and prices of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to factors such as changes in weather conditions, disease, plantings, government programs and policies, competition, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. To reduce price risk caused by market fluctuations, the Company generally follows a policy of using exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts to minimize its net position of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories and forward cash purchase and sales contracts. The Company will also use exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the volatility of the relationship between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contracts defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company, from time to time, enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold or net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) A sensitivity analysis has been prepared to estimate the Companys exposure to market risk of its daily net commodity position. The Companys daily net commodity position consists of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, related purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts, including those contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements. The fair value of such daily net commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing each net position at quoted futures prices. Market risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in such prices. Actual results may differ. 2010 2009 Long/(Short) Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest position $ 429 $ 43 $ 845 $ 85 Lowest position (667 ) (67 ) (1,342 ) (134 ) Average position (190 ) (19 ) (392 ) (39 ) The change in fair value of the average position for 2010 compared to 2009 was principally the result of changes in average quantities underlying the daily net commodity position. Currencies The Company conducts its business in over 60 countries. For the majority of the Companys subsidiaries located outside the United States, the local currency is the functional currency. In order to reduce the risks associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, except for amounts permanently invested as described below, the Company follows a policy of entering into currency exchange contracts to mitigate its foreign currency risk related to transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currencies applicable to each of its various entities, primarily the Euro, British pound, Canadian dollar, and Brazilian real. The instruments used are forward contracts, swaps with banks, exchange traded futures contracts, and over the counter options. The changes in marke t value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $6.4 billion at June 30, 2010, and $6.6 billion at June 30, 2009. This decrease is due to the depreciation of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar partially offset by an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The potential loss in fair value, which would principally be recognized in Other Comprehensive Income, resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $639 million and $664 million for 2010 and 2009, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical .5% decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2010 2009 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 7,700 $ 8,103 Excess of fair value over carrying value 870 511 Market risk 289 310 The decrease in fair value of long term debt in 2010 resulted principally from the repurchase of $500 million in aggregate principal amount of the Companys outstanding debentures. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Net sales and other operating income decreased 11% to $61.7 billion due principally to lower average selling prices in line with year over year declines in underlying commodity costs. Oilseeds Processing sales decreased 6% to $23.1 billion, due principally to lower average selling prices for soybeans, protein meal, refined oil, and biodiesel partially offset by increased sales volumes of soybeans and fertilizer. Corn Processing sales increased 3% to $7.9 billion primarily as a result of increased sales volumes of ethanol and lysine partially offset by lower average selling prices of ethanol, sweeteners, and starches. Agricultural Services sales decreased 19% to $25.4 billion, due to lower average selling prices, in line with year over year declines in underlying commodity prices, and lower sales volumes . Other sales decreased 3% to $5.2 billion, primarily due to lower average selling prices of wheat flour partially offset by increased wheat flour sales volumes and higher average selling prices and sales volumes for cocoa products. Cost of products sold decreased 11% to $57.8 billion, due principally to decreased agricultural commodity costs including the impact of changes in LIFO inventory valuations which reduced cost of products sold by $42 million in 2010 compared to $517 million in 2009. Manufacturing expenses decreased 1% or $60 million, primarily due to lower energy, chemical and fuel costs partially offset by higher employee related costs and a $124 million increase in depreciation and amortization expense. In 2010, manufacturing expenses included additional costs associated with the Companys new greenfield plants. Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased 1% to $1.4 billion, due principally to decreased provisions for doubtful accounts partially offset by increased expenses for legal, professional, and commercial services. Other (income) expense net improved $317 million primarily due to increased equity earnings of unconsolidated affiliates of $416 million, and decreased expense for the elimination of after tax mandatorily redeemable interests in consolidated subsidiaries. These increases were partially offset by pre tax charges of $75 million related to the early extinguishment of debt and $59 million for unrealized losses on interest rate swaps (for more information see Note 8 in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data). Equity earnings of unconsolidated affiliates in 2009 included a non cash charge of $275 million related to currency derivative losses of the Companys equity investee, Gruma S.A.B. de C.V. Income taxes decreased $146 million due to a lower effective income tax rate partially offset by higher pretax earnings. The Companys effective income tax rate during 2010 was 25.8%. In 2009, the effective income tax rate was 32.5% which included $158 million of income tax charges related to the partial restructuring of the holding company structure through which the Company holds a portion of its equity investment in Wilmar. Excluding these Wilmar charges, the Companys effective income tax rate for 2009 was 26.2%. For more information concerning Wilmar tax matters see Note 12 in Item 8. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Operating profit by segment is as follows: 2010 2009 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing & Origination $ 818 $ 767 $ 51 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel & Other 291 265 26 Asia 291 248 43 Total Oilseeds Processing 1,400 1,280 120 Corn Processing Sweeteners & Starches 529 500 29 Bioproducts 193 (315 ) 508 Total Corn Processing 722 185 537 Agricultural Services Merchandising & Handling 583 832 (249 ) Transportation 85 162 (77 ) Total Agricultural Services 668 994 (326 ) Other Wheat, Cocoa & Malt 403 51 352 Financial 46 (57 ) 103 Total Other 449 (6 ) 455 Total Segment Operating Profit 3,239 2,453 786 Corporate (see below) (654 ) 47 (701 ) Earnings Before Income Taxes $ 2,585 $ 2,500 $ 85 Corporate results are as follows: 2010 2009 Change (In millions) LIFO credit $ 42 $ 517 $ (475 ) Unallocated interest expense net (283 ) (192 ) (91 ) Unallocated corporate costs (266 ) (252 ) (14 ) Charges on early extinguishment of debt (75 ) (75 ) Unrealized losses on interest rate swaps (59 ) (59 ) Other (13 ) (26 ) 13 Total Corporate $ (654 ) $ 47 $ (701 ) Oilseeds Processing operating profit increased 9% to $1.4 billion. Crushing and origination results increased $51 million due to higher North American soybean crushing margins and favorable soft seed commodity positioning partially offset by lower soybean crushing margins in Europe and South America. Refining, packaging, biodiesel and other operating profit increased $26 million due primarily to higher South American biodiesel results and improved margins in Europe. Oilseeds processing results in Asia increased $43 million to $291 million due principally to improved equity earnings of Wilmar. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Corn Processing operating profit increased $537 million to $722 million. Bioproducts operating profit increased $508 million due to improved ethanol and lysine sales volumes and improved ethanol margins resulting from lower net corn costs and decreased manufacturing costs. Ethanol sales volumes increased due to favorable gasoline blending economics and increased merchandising activity. Sweeteners and starches operating profit increased $29 million due to lower net corn and manufacturing costs due principally to lower energy and chemical prices. These lower manufacturing costs were partially offset by lower average selling prices. Agricultural Services operating profit decreased $326 million to $668 million. Merchandising and handling results decreased $249 million. Enhanced volume and margin opportunities created by last years volatile commodity markets and tight credit markets did not recur. Volumes and margins in 2010 benefited from strong demand for U.S. soybean exports following the short South American 2009 crop. Transportation results decreased $77 million due to lower barge freight rates and decreased barge utilization levels resulting from weaker U.S. economic conditions and the late, extended North American harvest. Other operating profit increased $455 million to $449 million. Wheat, cocoa and malt operating profit increased $352 million due to improved equity earnings from the Companys investment in Gruma, improved wheat milling margins, and improved cocoa processing results. Financial operating profit increased $103 million due primarily to the absence of losses experienced last year from managed fund investments and captive insurance operations. Corporate results decreased $701 million. The effects of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations resulted in a credit of $42 million for the year ended June 30, 2010, compared to a credit of $517 million for the year ended June 30, 2009. Unallocated interest expense net increased $91 million reflecting a reduction in corporate interest income caused by lower short term interest rates and lower working capital requirements of the operating segments. In January 2010, the Company repurchased $500 million of long term debt which generated a $75 million pretax charge on early extinguishment of debt. In connection with a debt remarketing planned for 2011, the Company entered into interest rate swaps to fix the interest rate on a portion of the planned remarketing which result ed in $59 million of unrealized losses on interest rate swaps. 2009 Compared to 2008 As an agricultural commodity based business, the Company is subject to a variety of market factors which affect the Companys operating results. Net corn costs increased significantly in 2009 compared to 2008, negatively impacting ethanol margins, and, to a lesser extent, sweeteners and starches margins as the higher net corn costs were only partially offset by increased selling prices for sweeteners and starches. Additionally, lower demand for gasoline, decreased gasoline prices and excess ethanol industry capacity negatively impacted ethanol margins. Demand for agricultural commodities, freight, and other products was weaker during 2009 in line with the downturn in the global economy. Results were negatively impacted by decreased equity earnings in unconsolidated affiliates including significant non cash charges related to currency derivative losses incurred by the Companys equity investee, Gruma S.A.B. de C.V., and losses from the Companys managed fund investments. Earnings before income taxes for 2009 include a credit of $517 million from the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuation reserves, compared to a charge of $569 million in 2008. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Income taxes for 2009 include charges of $158 million resulting from the restructuring of a holding company in which the Company holds a portion of its equity investment in Wilmar. Analysis of Statements of Earnings Net sales and other operating income decreased 1% to $69.2 billion due to foreign exchange translation impacts and decreased sales volumes partially offset by higher average selling prices. Net sales and other operating income increased $3.0 billion due to higher average selling prices primarily related to higher underlying commodity costs, decreased $2.0 billion due to foreign exchange translation impacts, and decreased $1.6 billion due to lower sales volumes and other. Net sales and other operating income by segment are as follows: 2009 2008 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing & Origination $ 15,579 $ 14,477 $ 1,102 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel & Other 8,760 8,588 172 Asia 179 214 (35 ) Total Oilseeds Processing 24,518 23,279 1,239 Corn Processing Sweeteners & Starches 3,785 3,546 239 Bioproducts 3,938 3,591 347 Total Corn Processing 7,723 7,137 586 Agricultural Services Merchandising & Handling 31,342 33,749 (2,407 ) Transportation 242 219 23 Total Agricultural Services 31,584 33,968 (2,384 ) Other Wheat, Cocoa & Malt 5,272 5,335 (63 ) Financial 110 97 13 Total Other 5,382 5,432 (50 ) Total $ 69,207 $ 69,816 $ (609 ) Oilseeds Processing sales increased 5% to $24.5 billion due principally to increased sales volumes of merchandised oilseeds and biodiesel partially offset by lower sales volumes of vegetable oil and protein meal. Corn Processing sales increased 8% to $7.7 billion due principally to higher sales volumes of ethanol and higher average selling prices of sweeteners and starches, partially offset by lower average selling prices of ethanol. Agricultural Services sales decreased 7% to $31.6 billion due principally to lower sales volumes of grain. Other sales decreased 1% to $5.4 billion primarily due to the sale of the Companys malting business during the first quarter of fiscal year 2009 and lower average selling prices of wheat flour. Partially offsetting these decreases were higher average selling prices of cocoa products and increased chocolate sales volumes. Cost of products sold decreased 1% to $65.1 billion, in line with the decrease in net sales and other operating income. Cost of products sold decreased $856 million due principally to decreased sales volumes, decreased LIFO inventory valuations and approximately $1.9 billion from the impact of foreign currency translation, partially offset by increased agricultural commodity costs. Manufacturing expenses decreased $215 million primarily due to decreased energy and fuel costs. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Selling, general and administrative expenses of $1.4 billion were comparable to 2008. Decreased employee related costs and favorable impacts from foreign currency translation were offset by increases in provisions for doubtful accounts. Other (income) expense net decreased $348 million primarily due to decreased results from equity earnings of unconsolidated affiliates of $270 million, and decreased investment income. Equity earnings in unconsolidated affiliates included a non cash charge of $275 million of foreign exchange derivative losses incurred by the Companys equity investee, Gruma S.A.B. de C.V. Operating profit by segment is as follows: 2009 2008 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing & Origination $ 767 $ 727 $ 40 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel & Other 265 181 84 Asia 248 132 116 Total Oilseeds Processing 1,280 1,040 240 Corn Processing Sweeteners & Starches 500 557 (57 ) Bioproducts (315 ) 404 (719 ) Total Corn Processing 185 961 (776 ) Agricultural Services Merchandising & Handling 832 873 (41 ) Transportation 162 144 18 Total Agricultural Services 994 1,017 (23 ) Other Wheat, Cocoa & Malt 51 217 (166 ) Financial (57 ) 206 (263 ) Total Other (6 ) 423 (429 ) Total Segment Operating Profit 2,453 3,441 (988 ) Corporate (see below) 47 (847 ) 894 Earnings Before Income Taxes $ 2,500 $ 2,594 $ (94 ) Corporate results are as follows: 2009 2008 Change (In millions) LIFO credit (charge) $ 517 $ (569 ) $ 1,086 Interest expense (income) net (192 ) 49 (241 ) Corporate costs (252 ) (262 ) 10 Other (26 ) (65 ) 39 Total Corporate $ 47 $ (847 ) $ 894 Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Oilseeds Processing operating profit increased 23% to $1.3 billion. Crushing and origination results increased $40 million. Improved global crushing margins were partially offset by lower fertilizer sales volumes and margins and lower North American crushing volumes due to decreased demand for vegetable oil and protein meal. Refining, packaging, biodiesel and other results increased $84 million due principally to higher biodiesel sales volumes in South America and increased average margins for value added products. 2008 results for refining, packaging, biodiesel and other included asset abandonment charges of $27 million. Asia results increased $116 million due principally to the Companys share in improved operating results of Wilmar. Corn Processing operating profits decreased 81% to $185 million. Sweeteners and starches decreased $57 million due to the impact of higher net corn costs partially offset by higher average sweetener and starches selling prices. Bioproducts operating profit decreased $719 million for the year as ethanol and lysine margins declined significantly due to higher corn costs and lower average selling prices. Ethanol margins were also impacted by lower demand for gasoline, decreased gasoline prices, and excess ethanol industry capacity. Agricultural Services operating profits decreased 2% to $994 million. Merchandising and handling profit decreased $41 million. Merchandising margins moderated as demand for commodities slowed following the downturn in the global economy. Transportation results increased $18 million due to higher barge freight rates. Other operating profits decreased 101% to a loss of $6 million. Wheat, cocoa, and malt processing operating profit decreased $166 million for the year primarily due to equity losses from the Companys investment in Gruma, partially offset by improved cocoa and wheat processing margins. Financial operating profit decreased $263 million due to losses on managed fund investments compared to gains for the year ended June 30, 2008, increased captive insurance loss provisions and decreased interest income and lower marketable security gains of the Companys brokerage service business. Corporate results increased $894 million to $47 million, primarily due to the effects of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations which resulted in credits of $517 million for the year ended June 30, 2009, compared to $569 million of LIFO charges for the year ended June 30, 2008. Unallocated interest expense increased $241 million primarily due to higher long term debt interest expense and decreased interest income. Corporate interest income decreased due to lower short term interest rates and lower working capital requirements of the operating segments. The Companys effective tax rate during 2009 was 32.5% compared to 31.1% during 2008. Income taxes increased $4 million. Lower pre tax earnings and positive impacts from favorable changes in geographic mix of earnings, currency translation impacts in South America, lower tax rates in certain foreign jurisdictions, and return to provision adjustments, were offset by charges of $158 million resulting from the restructuring of a holding company in which the Company holds a portion of its equity investment in Wilmar. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Liquidity and Capital Resources A Company objective is to have sufficient liquidity, balance sheet strength, and financial flexibility to fund the operating and capital requirements of a capital intensive agricultural commodity based business. The primary source of funds to finance the Companys operations and capital expenditures is cash generated by operations. In addition, the Company maintains a commercial paper borrowing facility and has access to equity and debt capital from public and private sources in both domestic and international markets. At June 30, 2010, the Company had $1.4 billion of cash, cash equivalents, and short term marketable securities and a current ratio, defined as current assets divided by current liabilities, of 2.1 to 1. Included in working capital is $4.9 billion of readily marketable commodity inventories. Cash generated by operating activities decreased to $2.7 billion for the year compared to $5.3 billion last year due primarily to a $3.1 billion decrease in 2009 working capital requirements related to lower agricultural commodity market prices. Cash used in investing activities was $1.7 billion compared to $1.9 billion last year. Cash used in financing activities was $1.0 billion for the year compared to $3.2 billion last year due principally to a decrease in repayments of commercial paper borrowings part ially offset by the repurchase of $500 million of long term debt. At June 30, 2010, the Companys capital resources included net worth of $14.6 billion and lines of credit totaling $6.0 billion, of which $5.7 billion was unused. The Companys ratio of long term debt to total capital (the sum of the Companys long term debt and shareholders equity) was 32% at June 30, 2010 and 36% at June 30, 2009. This ratio is a measure of the Companys long term liquidity and is an indicator of financial flexibility. Of the Companys total lines of credit, $4.2 billion support a commercial paper borrowing facility, against which there were no borrowings at June 30, 2010. The Company has outstanding $1.15 billion principal amount of convertible senior notes. As of June 30, 2010, none of the conditions permitting conversion of these notes had been satisfied. The Company has purchased call options and warrants intended to reduce the potential shareholder dilution upon future conversion of the notes. As of June 30, 2010, the market price of the Companys common stock was not greater than the exercise price of the purchased call options or warrants related to the convertible senior notes. In June 2008, the Company issued $1.75 billion of debentures as a component of Equity Units (see Note 8 in Item 8). The debentures will be remarketed in 2011. The Equity Units are a combination of debt and forward contracts for the holder to purchase the Companys common stock. Each purchase contract obligates the holder to purchase from the Company, no later than June 1, 2011, for a price of $50 in cash, a certain number of shares, ranging from 1.0453 shares to 1.2544 shares, of the Companys common stock, based on a formula established in the contract. The Companys credit facilities and certain debentures require the Company to comply with specified financial and non financial covenants including maintenance of minimum tangible net worth as well as limitations related to incurring liens, secured debt, and certain other financing arrangements. The Company is in compliance with these covenants as of June 30, 2010. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements In the normal course of business, the Company enters into contracts and commitments which obligate the Company to make payments in the future. The following table sets forth the Companys significant future obligations by time period. Purchases include commodity based contracts entered into in the normal course of business, which are further described in Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, energy related purchase contracts entered into in the normal course of business, and other purchase obligations related to the Companys normal business activities. The following table does not include unrecognized income tax benefits of $84 million as at June 30, 2010, due to uncertainty of the timing of deductibility. Where applicable, information included in the Companys consolidated financial statements and notes is cross referenced in this table. Payments Due by Period Contractual Item 8 Note Less than 1 3 3 5 More than Obligations Reference Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years (In millions) Purchases Inventories $ 9,949 $ 9,508 $ 417 $ 6 $ 18 Energy 498 284 137 31 46 Other 409 143 208 56 2 Total purchases 10,856 9,935 762 93 66 Short term debt 374 374 Long term debt Note 8 7,174 344 428 1,076 5,326 Estimated interest payments 7,928 381 700 636 6,211 Operating leases Note 13 1,381 235 371 333 442 Estimated pension and other postretirement plan contributions (1) Note 14 150 45 17 21 67 Total $ 27,863 $ 11,314 $ 2,278 $ 2,159 $ 12,112 (1) The Company is unable to estimate the amount of pension contributions beyond fiscal year 2011. For more information concerning the Companys pension and other postretirement plans, see Note 14 in Item 8. At June 30, 2010, the Company estimates it will spend approximately $1.5 billion through calendar year 2013 to complete currently approved capital projects which are not included in the table above. The Company also has outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds of $459 million at June 30, 2010. In addition, the Company has entered into agreements, primarily debt guarantee agreements related to equity method investees, which could obligate the Company to make future payments. The Companys liability under these agreements arises only if the primary entity fails to perform its contractual obligation. The Company has collateral for a portion of these contingent obligations. At June 30, 2010, these contingent obligations totaled approximately $131 million. Amounts outstanding for the primary entity under these contingent obligations were $74 million at June 30, 2010. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Critical Accounting Policies The process of preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the carrying values of the Companys assets and liabilities as well as the recognition of revenues and expenses. These estimates and judgments are based on the Companys historical experience and managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Certain of the Companys accounting policies are considered critical, as these policies are important to the depiction of the Companys financial statements and require significant or complex judgment by management. Management has discussed with the Companys Audit Committee the development, selection, disclosure, and application of these critical accounting policies. Following are the accounting policies management considers critical to the Companys financial statements. Inventories and Derivatives Certain of the Companys merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, forward fixed price purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts are valued at estimated market values. These merchandisable agricultural commodities are freely traded, have quoted market prices, and may be sold without significant additional processing. Management estimates market value based on exchange quoted prices, adjusted for differences in local markets. Changes in the market values of these inventories and contracts are recognized in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. If management used different methods or factors to estimate market value, amounts reported as inventories and cost of products sold coul d differ materially. Additionally, if market conditions change subsequent to year end, amounts reported in future periods as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. The Company, from time to time, uses derivative contracts designated as cash flow hedges to fix the purchase price of anticipated volumes of commodities to be purchased and processed in a future month, to fix the purchase price of the Companys anticipated natural gas requirements for certain production facilities, and to fix the sales price of anticipated volumes of ethanol. The change in the market value of such derivative contracts has historically been, and is expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold and net sales and other operating income in th e statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. If it is determined that the derivative instruments used are no longer effective at offsetting changes in the price of the hedged item, then the changes in the market value of these exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts would be recorded in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. Employee Benefit Plans The Company provides substantially all domestic employees and employees at certain international subsidiaries with pension benefits. Eligible domestic employees with five or more years of service prior to January 1, 2009 participate in a defined benefit pension plan. Eligible domestic employees hired on or after January 1, 2009 (and eligible salaried employees with less than five years of service prior to January 1, 2009) participate in a cash balance pension formula. The Company provides eligible domestic employees who retire under qualifying conditions with access to postretirement health care, at full cost to the retiree (certain employees are grandfather ed into subsidized coverage). In order to measure the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans, management makes several estimates and assumptions, including interest rates used to discount certain liabilities, rates of return on assets set aside to fund these plans, rates of compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and anticipated future health care costs. These estimates and assumptions are based on the Companys historical experience combined with managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Management also uses third party actuaries to assist in measuring the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans. If management used different estimates and assumptions regarding these plans, the funded status of the plans could vary significantly, and the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Income Taxes The Company frequently faces challenges from domestic and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company records reserves for estimates of potential additional tax owed by the Company. As an example, a subsidiary of the Company received a tax assessment in the amount of $456 million (subject to variation in currency exchange rates) consisting of tax, penalty, and interest from the Brazilian Federal Revenue Service challenging the deductibility of commodity hedging losses incurred by the Company in 2004. The Company evaluated its tax position rega rding these hedging transactions and concluded, based in part upon advice from Brazilian legal counsel, that it was appropriate to recognize the tax benefits of these deductions (See Note 12 in Item 8 for additional information). Deferred tax assets represent items to be used as tax deductions or credits in future tax returns, and the related tax benefit has already been recognized in the Companys income statement. The realization of the Companys deferred tax assets is dependent upon future taxable income in specific tax jurisdictions, the timing and amount of which are uncertain. The Company evaluates all available positive and negative evidence including estimated future reversals of existing temporary differences, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies, and recent financial results. Valuation allowances related to these deferred tax assets have been established to the extent the realization of the tax benefit is not likely. To the extent the Company were to favorably resolve matters for which accruals have been established or be required to pay amounts in excess of the aforementioned reserves, the Companys effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be impacted. Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and affiliated corporate joint ventures accounted for on the equity method are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned factors may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and cash flows of the Compa nys assets in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its factories. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment, technology, and companies related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. The Company evaluates goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives for impairment annually. Assets are written down after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these assets, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Valuation of Marketable Securities and Investments in Affiliates The Company classifies the majority of its marketable securities as available for sale and carries these securities at fair value. The Company applies the equity method for investments in investees over which the Company has the ability to exercise significant influence. These investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings and are adjusted, where appropriate, for amortizable basis differences between the investment balance and the underlying net assets of the investee. For publicly traded securities, the fair value of the Companys investments is readily available based on quoted market prices. For non publicly traded securities, managements assessment of fair value is based on valuation methodologies including discounted cash flows and estima tes of sales proceeds. In the event of a decline in fair value of an investment below carrying value, management is required to determine if the decline in fair value is other than temporary. In evaluating the nature of a decline in the fair value of an investment, management considers the market conditions, trends of earnings, discounted cash flows, trading volumes, and other key measures of the investment as well as the Companys ability and intent to hold the investment. When such a decline in value is deemed to be other than temporary, an impairment loss is recognized in the current period operating results to the extent of the decline. See Notes 5 and 6 in Item 8 for information regarding the Companys marketable securities and investments in affiliates. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these marketable securities, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in: commodity market prices as they relate to the Companys net commodity position, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and prices of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to factors such as changes in weather conditions, disease, plantings, government programs and policies, competition, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. To reduce price risk caused by market fluctuations, the Company generally follows a policy of using exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts to minimize its net position of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories and forward cash purchase and sales contracts. The Company will also use exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the volatility of the relationship between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contracts defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company, from time to time, enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold or net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) A sensitivity analysis has been prepared to estimate the Companys exposure to market risk of its daily net commodity position. The Companys daily net commodity position consists of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, related purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts, including those contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements. The fair value of such daily net commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing each net position at quoted futures prices. Market risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in such prices. Actual results may differ. 2010 2009 Long/(Short) Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest position $ 429 $ 43 $ 845 $ 85 Lowest position (667 ) (67 ) (1,342 ) (134 ) Average position (190 ) (19 ) (392 ) (39 ) The change in fair value of the average position for 2010 compared to 2009 was principally the result of changes in average quantities underlying the daily net commodity position. Currencies The Company conducts its business in over 60 countries. For the majority of the Companys subsidiaries located outside the United States, the local currency is the functional currency. In order to reduce the risks associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, except for amounts permanently invested as described below, the Company follows a policy of entering into currency exchange contracts to mitigate its foreign currency risk related to transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currencies applicable to each of its various entities, primarily the Euro, British pound, Canadian dollar, and Brazilian real. The instruments used are forward contracts, swaps with banks, exchange traded futures contracts, and over the counter options. The changes in marke t value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $6.4 billion at June 30, 2010, and $6.6 billion at June 30, 2009. This decrease is due to the depreciation of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar partially offset by an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The potential loss in fair value, which would principally be recognized in Other Comprehensive Income, resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $639 million and $664 million for 2010 and 2009, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical .5% decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2010 2009 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 7,700 $ 8,103 Excess of fair value over carrying value 870 511 Market risk 289 310 The decrease in fair value of long term debt in 2010 resulted principally from the repurchase of $500 million in aggregate principal amount of the Companys outstanding debentures. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Operating profit by segment is as follows: 2010 2009 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing & Origination $ 818 $ 767 $ 51 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel & Other 291 265 26 Asia 291 248 43 Total Oilseeds Processing 1,400 1,280 120 Corn Processing Sweeteners & Starches 529 500 29 Bioproducts 193 (315 ) 508 Total Corn Processing 722 185 537 Agricultural Services Merchandising & Handling 583 832 (249 ) Transportation 85 162 (77 ) Total Agricultural Services 668 994 (326 ) Other Wheat, Cocoa & Malt 403 51 352 Financial 46 (57 ) 103 Total Other 449 (6 ) 455 Total Segment Operating Profit 3,239 2,453 786 Corporate (see below) (654 ) 47 (701 ) Earnings Before Income Taxes $ 2,585 $ 2,500 $ 85 Corporate results are as follows: 2010 2009 Change (In millions) LIFO credit $ 42 $ 517 $ (475 ) Unallocated interest expense net (283 ) (192 ) (91 ) Unallocated corporate costs (266 ) (252 ) (14 ) Charges on early extinguishment of debt (75 ) (75 ) Unrealized losses on interest rate swaps (59 ) (59 ) Other (13 ) (26 ) 13 Total Corporate $ (654 ) $ 47 $ (701 ) Oilseeds Processing operating profit increased 9% to $1.4 billion. Crushing and origination results increased $51 million due to higher North American soybean crushing margins and favorable soft seed commodity positioning partially offset by lower soybean crushing margins in Europe and South America. Refining, packaging, biodiesel and other operating profit increased $26 million due primarily to higher South American biodiesel results and improved margins in Europe. Oilseeds processing results in Asia increased $43 million to $291 million due principally to improved equity earnings of Wilmar. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Corn Processing operating profit increased $537 million to $722 million. Bioproducts operating profit increased $508 million due to improved ethanol and lysine sales volumes and improved ethanol margins resulting from lower net corn costs and decreased manufacturing costs. Ethanol sales volumes increased due to favorable gasoline blending economics and increased merchandising activity. Sweeteners and starches operating profit increased $29 million due to lower net corn and manufacturing costs due principally to lower energy and chemical prices. These lower manufacturing costs were partially offset by lower average selling prices. Agricultural Services operating profit decreased $326 million to $668 million. Merchandising and handling results decreased $249 million. Enhanced volume and margin opportunities created by last years volatile commodity markets and tight credit markets did not recur. Volumes and margins in 2010 benefited from strong demand for U.S. soybean exports following the short South American 2009 crop. Transportation results decreased $77 million due to lower barge freight rates and decreased barge utilization levels resulting from weaker U.S. economic conditions and the late, extended North American harvest. Other operating profit increased $455 million to $449 million. Wheat, cocoa and malt operating profit increased $352 million due to improved equity earnings from the Companys investment in Gruma, improved wheat milling margins, and improved cocoa processing results. Financial operating profit increased $103 million due primarily to the absence of losses experienced last year from managed fund investments and captive insurance operations. Corporate results decreased $701 million. The effects of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations resulted in a credit of $42 million for the year ended June 30, 2010, compared to a credit of $517 million for the year ended June 30, 2009. Unallocated interest expense net increased $91 million reflecting a reduction in corporate interest income caused by lower short term interest rates and lower working capital requirements of the operating segments. In January 2010, the Company repurchased $500 million of long term debt which generated a $75 million pretax charge on early extinguishment of debt. In connection with a debt remarketing planned for 2011, the Company entered into interest rate swaps to fix the interest rate on a portion of the planned remarketing which result ed in $59 million of unrealized losses on interest rate swaps. 2009 Compared to 2008 As an agricultural commodity based business, the Company is subject to a variety of market factors which affect the Companys operating results. Net corn costs increased significantly in 2009 compared to 2008, negatively impacting ethanol margins, and, to a lesser extent, sweeteners and starches margins as the higher net corn costs were only partially offset by increased selling prices for sweeteners and starches. Additionally, lower demand for gasoline, decreased gasoline prices and excess ethanol industry capacity negatively impacted ethanol margins. Demand for agricultural commodities, freight, and other products was weaker during 2009 in line with the downturn in the global economy. Results were negatively impacted by decreased equity earnings in unconsolidated affiliates including significant non cash charges related to currency derivative losses incurred by the Companys equity investee, Gruma S.A.B. de C.V., and losses from the Companys managed fund investments. Earnings before income taxes for 2009 include a credit of $517 million from the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuation reserves, compared to a charge of $569 million in 2008. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Income taxes for 2009 include charges of $158 million resulting from the restructuring of a holding company in which the Company holds a portion of its equity investment in Wilmar. Analysis of Statements of Earnings Net sales and other operating income decreased 1% to $69.2 billion due to foreign exchange translation impacts and decreased sales volumes partially offset by higher average selling prices. Net sales and other operating income increased $3.0 billion due to higher average selling prices primarily related to higher underlying commodity costs, decreased $2.0 billion due to foreign exchange translation impacts, and decreased $1.6 billion due to lower sales volumes and other. Net sales and other operating income by segment are as follows: 2009 2008 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing & Origination $ 15,579 $ 14,477 $ 1,102 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel & Other 8,760 8,588 172 Asia 179 214 (35 ) Total Oilseeds Processing 24,518 23,279 1,239 Corn Processing Sweeteners & Starches 3,785 3,546 239 Bioproducts 3,938 3,591 347 Total Corn Processing 7,723 7,137 586 Agricultural Services Merchandising & Handling 31,342 33,749 (2,407 ) Transportation 242 219 23 Total Agricultural Services 31,584 33,968 (2,384 ) Other Wheat, Cocoa & Malt 5,272 5,335 (63 ) Financial 110 97 13 Total Other 5,382 5,432 (50 ) Total $ 69,207 $ 69,816 $ (609 ) Oilseeds Processing sales increased 5% to $24.5 billion due principally to increased sales volumes of merchandised oilseeds and biodiesel partially offset by lower sales volumes of vegetable oil and protein meal. Corn Processing sales increased 8% to $7.7 billion due principally to higher sales volumes of ethanol and higher average selling prices of sweeteners and starches, partially offset by lower average selling prices of ethanol. Agricultural Services sales decreased 7% to $31.6 billion due principally to lower sales volumes of grain. Other sales decreased 1% to $5.4 billion primarily due to the sale of the Companys malting business during the first quarter of fiscal year 2009 and lower average selling prices of wheat flour. Partially offsetting these decreases were higher average selling prices of cocoa products and increased chocolate sales volumes. Cost of products sold decreased 1% to $65.1 billion, in line with the decrease in net sales and other operating income. Cost of products sold decreased $856 million due principally to decreased sales volumes, decreased LIFO inventory valuations and approximately $1.9 billion from the impact of foreign currency translation, partially offset by increased agricultural commodity costs. Manufacturing expenses decreased $215 million primarily due to decreased energy and fuel costs. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Selling, general and administrative expenses of $1.4 billion were comparable to 2008. Decreased employee related costs and favorable impacts from foreign currency translation were offset by increases in provisions for doubtful accounts. Other (income) expense net decreased $348 million primarily due to decreased results from equity earnings of unconsolidated affiliates of $270 million, and decreased investment income. Equity earnings in unconsolidated affiliates included a non cash charge of $275 million of foreign exchange derivative losses incurred by the Companys equity investee, Gruma S.A.B. de C.V. Operating profit by segment is as follows: 2009 2008 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing & Origination $ 767 $ 727 $ 40 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel & Other 265 181 84 Asia 248 132 116 Total Oilseeds Processing 1,280 1,040 240 Corn Processing Sweeteners & Starches 500 557 (57 ) Bioproducts (315 ) 404 (719 ) Total Corn Processing 185 961 (776 ) Agricultural Services Merchandising & Handling 832 873 (41 ) Transportation 162 144 18 Total Agricultural Services 994 1,017 (23 ) Other Wheat, Cocoa & Malt 51 217 (166 ) Financial (57 ) 206 (263 ) Total Other (6 ) 423 (429 ) Total Segment Operating Profit 2,453 3,441 (988 ) Corporate (see below) 47 (847 ) 894 Earnings Before Income Taxes $ 2,500 $ 2,594 $ (94 ) Corporate results are as follows: 2009 2008 Change (In millions) LIFO credit (charge) $ 517 $ (569 ) $ 1,086 Interest expense (income) net (192 ) 49 (241 ) Corporate costs (252 ) (262 ) 10 Other (26 ) (65 ) 39 Total Corporate $ 47 $ (847 ) $ 894 Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Oilseeds Processing operating profit increased 23% to $1.3 billion. Crushing and origination results increased $40 million. Improved global crushing margins were partially offset by lower fertilizer sales volumes and margins and lower North American crushing volumes due to decreased demand for vegetable oil and protein meal. Refining, packaging, biodiesel and other results increased $84 million due principally to higher biodiesel sales volumes in South America and increased average margins for value added products. 2008 results for refining, packaging, biodiesel and other included asset abandonment charges of $27 million. Asia results increased $116 million due principally to the Companys share in improved operating results of Wilmar. Corn Processing operating profits decreased 81% to $185 million. Sweeteners and starches decreased $57 million due to the impact of higher net corn costs partially offset by higher average sweetener and starches selling prices. Bioproducts operating profit decreased $719 million for the year as ethanol and lysine margins declined significantly due to higher corn costs and lower average selling prices. Ethanol margins were also impacted by lower demand for gasoline, decreased gasoline prices, and excess ethanol industry capacity. Agricultural Services operating profits decreased 2% to $994 million. Merchandising and handling profit decreased $41 million. Merchandising margins moderated as demand for commodities slowed following the downturn in the global economy. Transportation results increased $18 million due to higher barge freight rates. Other operating profits decreased 101% to a loss of $6 million. Wheat, cocoa, and malt processing operating profit decreased $166 million for the year primarily due to equity losses from the Companys investment in Gruma, partially offset by improved cocoa and wheat processing margins. Financial operating profit decreased $263 million due to losses on managed fund investments compared to gains for the year ended June 30, 2008, increased captive insurance loss provisions and decreased interest income and lower marketable security gains of the Companys brokerage service business. Corporate results increased $894 million to $47 million, primarily due to the effects of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations which resulted in credits of $517 million for the year ended June 30, 2009, compared to $569 million of LIFO charges for the year ended June 30, 2008. Unallocated interest expense increased $241 million primarily due to higher long term debt interest expense and decreased interest income. Corporate interest income decreased due to lower short term interest rates and lower working capital requirements of the operating segments. The Companys effective tax rate during 2009 was 32.5% compared to 31.1% during 2008. Income taxes increased $4 million. Lower pre tax earnings and positive impacts from favorable changes in geographic mix of earnings, currency translation impacts in South America, lower tax rates in certain foreign jurisdictions, and return to provision adjustments, were offset by charges of $158 million resulting from the restructuring of a holding company in which the Company holds a portion of its equity investment in Wilmar. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Liquidity and Capital Resources A Company objective is to have sufficient liquidity, balance sheet strength, and financial flexibility to fund the operating and capital requirements of a capital intensive agricultural commodity based business. The primary source of funds to finance the Companys operations and capital expenditures is cash generated by operations. In addition, the Company maintains a commercial paper borrowing facility and has access to equity and debt capital from public and private sources in both domestic and international markets. At June 30, 2010, the Company had $1.4 billion of cash, cash equivalents, and short term marketable securities and a current ratio, defined as current assets divided by current liabilities, of 2.1 to 1. Included in working capital is $4.9 billion of readily marketable commodity inventories. Cash generated by operating activities decreased to $2.7 billion for the year compared to $5.3 billion last year due primarily to a $3.1 billion decrease in 2009 working capital requirements related to lower agricultural commodity market prices. Cash used in investing activities was $1.7 billion compared to $1.9 billion last year. Cash used in financing activities was $1.0 billion for the year compared to $3.2 billion last year due principally to a decrease in repayments of commercial paper borrowings part ially offset by the repurchase of $500 million of long term debt. At June 30, 2010, the Companys capital resources included net worth of $14.6 billion and lines of credit totaling $6.0 billion, of which $5.7 billion was unused. The Companys ratio of long term debt to total capital (the sum of the Companys long term debt and shareholders equity) was 32% at June 30, 2010 and 36% at June 30, 2009. This ratio is a measure of the Companys long term liquidity and is an indicator of financial flexibility. Of the Companys total lines of credit, $4.2 billion support a commercial paper borrowing facility, against which there were no borrowings at June 30, 2010. The Company has outstanding $1.15 billion principal amount of convertible senior notes. As of June 30, 2010, none of the conditions permitting conversion of these notes had been satisfied. The Company has purchased call options and warrants intended to reduce the potential shareholder dilution upon future conversion of the notes. As of June 30, 2010, the market price of the Companys common stock was not greater than the exercise price of the purchased call options or warrants related to the convertible senior notes. In June 2008, the Company issued $1.75 billion of debentures as a component of Equity Units (see Note 8 in Item 8). The debentures will be remarketed in 2011. The Equity Units are a combination of debt and forward contracts for the holder to purchase the Companys common stock. Each purchase contract obligates the holder to purchase from the Company, no later than June 1, 2011, for a price of $50 in cash, a certain number of shares, ranging from 1.0453 shares to 1.2544 shares, of the Companys common stock, based on a formula established in the contract. The Companys credit facilities and certain debentures require the Company to comply with specified financial and non financial covenants including maintenance of minimum tangible net worth as well as limitations related to incurring liens, secured debt, and certain other financing arrangements. The Company is in compliance with these covenants as of June 30, 2010. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements In the normal course of business, the Company enters into contracts and commitments which obligate the Company to make payments in the future. The following table sets forth the Companys significant future obligations by time period. Purchases include commodity based contracts entered into in the normal course of business, which are further described in Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, energy related purchase contracts entered into in the normal course of business, and other purchase obligations related to the Companys normal business activities. The following table does not include unrecognized income tax benefits of $84 million as at June 30, 2010, due to uncertainty of the timing of deductibility. Where applicable, information included in the Companys consolidated financial statements and notes is cross referenced in this table. Payments Due by Period Contractual Item 8 Note Less than 1 3 3 5 More than Obligations Reference Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years (In millions) Purchases Inventories $ 9,949 $ 9,508 $ 417 $ 6 $ 18 Energy 498 284 137 31 46 Other 409 143 208 56 2 Total purchases 10,856 9,935 762 93 66 Short term debt 374 374 Long term debt Note 8 7,174 344 428 1,076 5,326 Estimated interest payments 7,928 381 700 636 6,211 Operating leases Note 13 1,381 235 371 333 442 Estimated pension and other postretirement plan contributions (1) Note 14 150 45 17 21 67 Total $ 27,863 $ 11,314 $ 2,278 $ 2,159 $ 12,112 (1) The Company is unable to estimate the amount of pension contributions beyond fiscal year 2011. For more information concerning the Companys pension and other postretirement plans, see Note 14 in Item 8. At June 30, 2010, the Company estimates it will spend approximately $1.5 billion through calendar year 2013 to complete currently approved capital projects which are not included in the table above. The Company also has outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds of $459 million at June 30, 2010. In addition, the Company has entered into agreements, primarily debt guarantee agreements related to equity method investees, which could obligate the Company to make future payments. The Companys liability under these agreements arises only if the primary entity fails to perform its contractual obligation. The Company has collateral for a portion of these contingent obligations. At June 30, 2010, these contingent obligations totaled approximately $131 million. Amounts outstanding for the primary entity under these contingent obligations were $74 million at June 30, 2010. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Critical Accounting Policies The process of preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the carrying values of the Companys assets and liabilities as well as the recognition of revenues and expenses. These estimates and judgments are based on the Companys historical experience and managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Certain of the Companys accounting policies are considered critical, as these policies are important to the depiction of the Companys financial statements and require significant or complex judgment by management. Management has discussed with the Companys Audit Committee the development, selection, disclosure, and application of these critical accounting policies. Following are the accounting policies management considers critical to the Companys financial statements. Inventories and Derivatives Certain of the Companys merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, forward fixed price purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts are valued at estimated market values. These merchandisable agricultural commodities are freely traded, have quoted market prices, and may be sold without significant additional processing. Management estimates market value based on exchange quoted prices, adjusted for differences in local markets. Changes in the market values of these inventories and contracts are recognized in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. If management used different methods or factors to estimate market value, amounts reported as inventories and cost of products sold coul d differ materially. Additionally, if market conditions change subsequent to year end, amounts reported in future periods as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. The Company, from time to time, uses derivative contracts designated as cash flow hedges to fix the purchase price of anticipated volumes of commodities to be purchased and processed in a future month, to fix the purchase price of the Companys anticipated natural gas requirements for certain production facilities, and to fix the sales price of anticipated volumes of ethanol. The change in the market value of such derivative contracts has historically been, and is expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold and net sales and other operating income in th e statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. If it is determined that the derivative instruments used are no longer effective at offsetting changes in the price of the hedged item, then the changes in the market value of these exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts would be recorded in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. Employee Benefit Plans The Company provides substantially all domestic employees and employees at certain international subsidiaries with pension benefits. Eligible domestic employees with five or more years of service prior to January 1, 2009 participate in a defined benefit pension plan. Eligible domestic employees hired on or after January 1, 2009 (and eligible salaried employees with less than five years of service prior to January 1, 2009) participate in a cash balance pension formula. The Company provides eligible domestic employees who retire under qualifying conditions with access to postretirement health care, at full cost to the retiree (certain employees are grandfather ed into subsidized coverage). In order to measure the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans, management makes several estimates and assumptions, including interest rates used to discount certain liabilities, rates of return on assets set aside to fund these plans, rates of compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and anticipated future health care costs. These estimates and assumptions are based on the Companys historical experience combined with managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Management also uses third party actuaries to assist in measuring the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans. If management used different estimates and assumptions regarding these plans, the funded status of the plans could vary significantly, and the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Income Taxes The Company frequently faces challenges from domestic and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company records reserves for estimates of potential additional tax owed by the Company. As an example, a subsidiary of the Company received a tax assessment in the amount of $456 million (subject to variation in currency exchange rates) consisting of tax, penalty, and interest from the Brazilian Federal Revenue Service challenging the deductibility of commodity hedging losses incurred by the Company in 2004. The Company evaluated its tax position rega rding these hedging transactions and concluded, based in part upon advice from Brazilian legal counsel, that it was appropriate to recognize the tax benefits of these deductions (See Note 12 in Item 8 for additional information). Deferred tax assets represent items to be used as tax deductions or credits in future tax returns, and the related tax benefit has already been recognized in the Companys income statement. The realization of the Companys deferred tax assets is dependent upon future taxable income in specific tax jurisdictions, the timing and amount of which are uncertain. The Company evaluates all available positive and negative evidence including estimated future reversals of existing temporary differences, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies, and recent financial results. Valuation allowances related to these deferred tax assets have been established to the extent the realization of the tax benefit is not likely. To the extent the Company were to favorably resolve matters for which accruals have been established or be required to pay amounts in excess of the aforementioned reserves, the Companys effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be impacted. Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and affiliated corporate joint ventures accounted for on the equity method are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned factors may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and cash flows of the Compa nys assets in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its factories. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment, technology, and companies related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. The Company evaluates goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives for impairment annually. Assets are written down after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these assets, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Valuation of Marketable Securities and Investments in Affiliates The Company classifies the majority of its marketable securities as available for sale and carries these securities at fair value. The Company applies the equity method for investments in investees over which the Company has the ability to exercise significant influence. These investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings and are adjusted, where appropriate, for amortizable basis differences between the investment balance and the underlying net assets of the investee. For publicly traded securities, the fair value of the Companys investments is readily available based on quoted market prices. For non publicly traded securities, managements assessment of fair value is based on valuation methodologies including discounted cash flows and estima tes of sales proceeds. In the event of a decline in fair value of an investment below carrying value, management is required to determine if the decline in fair value is other than temporary. In evaluating the nature of a decline in the fair value of an investment, management considers the market conditions, trends of earnings, discounted cash flows, trading volumes, and other key measures of the investment as well as the Companys ability and intent to hold the investment. When such a decline in value is deemed to be other than temporary, an impairment loss is recognized in the current period operating results to the extent of the decline. See Notes 5 and 6 in Item 8 for information regarding the Companys marketable securities and investments in affiliates. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these marketable securities, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in: commodity market prices as they relate to the Companys net commodity position, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and prices of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to factors such as changes in weather conditions, disease, plantings, government programs and policies, competition, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. To reduce price risk caused by market fluctuations, the Company generally follows a policy of using exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts to minimize its net position of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories and forward cash purchase and sales contracts. The Company will also use exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the volatility of the relationship between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contracts defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company, from time to time, enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold or net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) A sensitivity analysis has been prepared to estimate the Companys exposure to market risk of its daily net commodity position. The Companys daily net commodity position consists of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, related purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts, including those contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements. The fair value of such daily net commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing each net position at quoted futures prices. Market risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in such prices. Actual results may differ. 2010 2009 Long/(Short) Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest position $ 429 $ 43 $ 845 $ 85 Lowest position (667 ) (67 ) (1,342 ) (134 ) Average position (190 ) (19 ) (392 ) (39 ) The change in fair value of the average position for 2010 compared to 2009 was principally the result of changes in average quantities underlying the daily net commodity position. Currencies The Company conducts its business in over 60 countries. For the majority of the Companys subsidiaries located outside the United States, the local currency is the functional currency. In order to reduce the risks associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, except for amounts permanently invested as described below, the Company follows a policy of entering into currency exchange contracts to mitigate its foreign currency risk related to transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currencies applicable to each of its various entities, primarily the Euro, British pound, Canadian dollar, and Brazilian real. The instruments used are forward contracts, swaps with banks, exchange traded futures contracts, and over the counter options. The changes in marke t value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $6.4 billion at June 30, 2010, and $6.6 billion at June 30, 2009. This decrease is due to the depreciation of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar partially offset by an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The potential loss in fair value, which would principally be recognized in Other Comprehensive Income, resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $639 million and $664 million for 2010 and 2009, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical .5% decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2010 2009 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 7,700 $ 8,103 Excess of fair value over carrying value 870 511 Market risk 289 310 The decrease in fair value of long term debt in 2010 resulted principally from the repurchase of $500 million in aggregate principal amount of the Companys outstanding debentures. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Corn Processing operating profit increased $537 million to $722 million. Bioproducts operating profit increased $508 million due to improved ethanol and lysine sales volumes and improved ethanol margins resulting from lower net corn costs and decreased manufacturing costs. Ethanol sales volumes increased due to favorable gasoline blending economics and increased merchandising activity. Sweeteners and starches operating profit increased $29 million due to lower net corn and manufacturing costs due principally to lower energy and chemical prices. These lower manufacturing costs were partially offset by lower average selling prices. Agricultural Services operating profit decreased $326 million to $668 million. Merchandising and handling results decreased $249 million. Enhanced volume and margin opportunities created by last years volatile commodity markets and tight credit markets did not recur. Volumes and margins in 2010 benefited from strong demand for U.S. soybean exports following the short South American 2009 crop. Transportation results decreased $77 million due to lower barge freight rates and decreased barge utilization levels resulting from weaker U.S. economic conditions and the late, extended North American harvest. Other operating profit increased $455 million to $449 million. Wheat, cocoa and malt operating profit increased $352 million due to improved equity earnings from the Companys investment in Gruma, improved wheat milling margins, and improved cocoa processing results. Financial operating profit increased $103 million due primarily to the absence of losses experienced last year from managed fund investments and captive insurance operations. Corporate results decreased $701 million. The effects of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations resulted in a credit of $42 million for the year ended June 30, 2010, compared to a credit of $517 million for the year ended June 30, 2009. Unallocated interest expense net increased $91 million reflecting a reduction in corporate interest income caused by lower short term interest rates and lower working capital requirements of the operating segments. In January 2010, the Company repurchased $500 million of long term debt which generated a $75 million pretax charge on early extinguishment of debt. In connection with a debt remarketing planned for 2011, the Company entered into interest rate swaps to fix the interest rate on a portion of the planned remarketing which result ed in $59 million of unrealized losses on interest rate swaps. 2009 Compared to 2008 As an agricultural commodity based business, the Company is subject to a variety of market factors which affect the Companys operating results. Net corn costs increased significantly in 2009 compared to 2008, negatively impacting ethanol margins, and, to a lesser extent, sweeteners and starches margins as the higher net corn costs were only partially offset by increased selling prices for sweeteners and starches. Additionally, lower demand for gasoline, decreased gasoline prices and excess ethanol industry capacity negatively impacted ethanol margins. Demand for agricultural commodities, freight, and other products was weaker during 2009 in line with the downturn in the global economy. Results were negatively impacted by decreased equity earnings in unconsolidated affiliates including significant non cash charges related to currency derivative losses incurred by the Companys equity investee, Gruma S.A.B. de C.V., and losses from the Companys managed fund investments. Earnings before income taxes for 2009 include a credit of $517 million from the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuation reserves, compared to a charge of $569 million in 2008. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Income taxes for 2009 include charges of $158 million resulting from the restructuring of a holding company in which the Company holds a portion of its equity investment in Wilmar. Analysis of Statements of Earnings Net sales and other operating income decreased 1% to $69.2 billion due to foreign exchange translation impacts and decreased sales volumes partially offset by higher average selling prices. Net sales and other operating income increased $3.0 billion due to higher average selling prices primarily related to higher underlying commodity costs, decreased $2.0 billion due to foreign exchange translation impacts, and decreased $1.6 billion due to lower sales volumes and other. Net sales and other operating income by segment are as follows: 2009 2008 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing & Origination $ 15,579 $ 14,477 $ 1,102 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel & Other 8,760 8,588 172 Asia 179 214 (35 ) Total Oilseeds Processing 24,518 23,279 1,239 Corn Processing Sweeteners & Starches 3,785 3,546 239 Bioproducts 3,938 3,591 347 Total Corn Processing 7,723 7,137 586 Agricultural Services Merchandising & Handling 31,342 33,749 (2,407 ) Transportation 242 219 23 Total Agricultural Services 31,584 33,968 (2,384 ) Other Wheat, Cocoa & Malt 5,272 5,335 (63 ) Financial 110 97 13 Total Other 5,382 5,432 (50 ) Total $ 69,207 $ 69,816 $ (609 ) Oilseeds Processing sales increased 5% to $24.5 billion due principally to increased sales volumes of merchandised oilseeds and biodiesel partially offset by lower sales volumes of vegetable oil and protein meal. Corn Processing sales increased 8% to $7.7 billion due principally to higher sales volumes of ethanol and higher average selling prices of sweeteners and starches, partially offset by lower average selling prices of ethanol. Agricultural Services sales decreased 7% to $31.6 billion due principally to lower sales volumes of grain. Other sales decreased 1% to $5.4 billion primarily due to the sale of the Companys malting business during the first quarter of fiscal year 2009 and lower average selling prices of wheat flour. Partially offsetting these decreases were higher average selling prices of cocoa products and increased chocolate sales volumes. Cost of products sold decreased 1% to $65.1 billion, in line with the decrease in net sales and other operating income. Cost of products sold decreased $856 million due principally to decreased sales volumes, decreased LIFO inventory valuations and approximately $1.9 billion from the impact of foreign currency translation, partially offset by increased agricultural commodity costs. Manufacturing expenses decreased $215 million primarily due to decreased energy and fuel costs. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Selling, general and administrative expenses of $1.4 billion were comparable to 2008. Decreased employee related costs and favorable impacts from foreign currency translation were offset by increases in provisions for doubtful accounts. Other (income) expense net decreased $348 million primarily due to decreased results from equity earnings of unconsolidated affiliates of $270 million, and decreased investment income. Equity earnings in unconsolidated affiliates included a non cash charge of $275 million of foreign exchange derivative losses incurred by the Companys equity investee, Gruma S.A.B. de C.V. Operating profit by segment is as follows: 2009 2008 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing & Origination $ 767 $ 727 $ 40 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel & Other 265 181 84 Asia 248 132 116 Total Oilseeds Processing 1,280 1,040 240 Corn Processing Sweeteners & Starches 500 557 (57 ) Bioproducts (315 ) 404 (719 ) Total Corn Processing 185 961 (776 ) Agricultural Services Merchandising & Handling 832 873 (41 ) Transportation 162 144 18 Total Agricultural Services 994 1,017 (23 ) Other Wheat, Cocoa & Malt 51 217 (166 ) Financial (57 ) 206 (263 ) Total Other (6 ) 423 (429 ) Total Segment Operating Profit 2,453 3,441 (988 ) Corporate (see below) 47 (847 ) 894 Earnings Before Income Taxes $ 2,500 $ 2,594 $ (94 ) Corporate results are as follows: 2009 2008 Change (In millions) LIFO credit (charge) $ 517 $ (569 ) $ 1,086 Interest expense (income) net (192 ) 49 (241 ) Corporate costs (252 ) (262 ) 10 Other (26 ) (65 ) 39 Total Corporate $ 47 $ (847 ) $ 894 Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Oilseeds Processing operating profit increased 23% to $1.3 billion. Crushing and origination results increased $40 million. Improved global crushing margins were partially offset by lower fertilizer sales volumes and margins and lower North American crushing volumes due to decreased demand for vegetable oil and protein meal. Refining, packaging, biodiesel and other results increased $84 million due principally to higher biodiesel sales volumes in South America and increased average margins for value added products. 2008 results for refining, packaging, biodiesel and other included asset abandonment charges of $27 million. Asia results increased $116 million due principally to the Companys share in improved operating results of Wilmar. Corn Processing operating profits decreased 81% to $185 million. Sweeteners and starches decreased $57 million due to the impact of higher net corn costs partially offset by higher average sweetener and starches selling prices. Bioproducts operating profit decreased $719 million for the year as ethanol and lysine margins declined significantly due to higher corn costs and lower average selling prices. Ethanol margins were also impacted by lower demand for gasoline, decreased gasoline prices, and excess ethanol industry capacity. Agricultural Services operating profits decreased 2% to $994 million. Merchandising and handling profit decreased $41 million. Merchandising margins moderated as demand for commodities slowed following the downturn in the global economy. Transportation results increased $18 million due to higher barge freight rates. Other operating profits decreased 101% to a loss of $6 million. Wheat, cocoa, and malt processing operating profit decreased $166 million for the year primarily due to equity losses from the Companys investment in Gruma, partially offset by improved cocoa and wheat processing margins. Financial operating profit decreased $263 million due to losses on managed fund investments compared to gains for the year ended June 30, 2008, increased captive insurance loss provisions and decreased interest income and lower marketable security gains of the Companys brokerage service business. Corporate results increased $894 million to $47 million, primarily due to the effects of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations which resulted in credits of $517 million for the year ended June 30, 2009, compared to $569 million of LIFO charges for the year ended June 30, 2008. Unallocated interest expense increased $241 million primarily due to higher long term debt interest expense and decreased interest income. Corporate interest income decreased due to lower short term interest rates and lower working capital requirements of the operating segments. The Companys effective tax rate during 2009 was 32.5% compared to 31.1% during 2008. Income taxes increased $4 million. Lower pre tax earnings and positive impacts from favorable changes in geographic mix of earnings, currency translation impacts in South America, lower tax rates in certain foreign jurisdictions, and return to provision adjustments, were offset by charges of $158 million resulting from the restructuring of a holding company in which the Company holds a portion of its equity investment in Wilmar. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Liquidity and Capital Resources A Company objective is to have sufficient liquidity, balance sheet strength, and financial flexibility to fund the operating and capital requirements of a capital intensive agricultural commodity based business. The primary source of funds to finance the Companys operations and capital expenditures is cash generated by operations. In addition, the Company maintains a commercial paper borrowing facility and has access to equity and debt capital from public and private sources in both domestic and international markets. At June 30, 2010, the Company had $1.4 billion of cash, cash equivalents, and short term marketable securities and a current ratio, defined as current assets divided by current liabilities, of 2.1 to 1. Included in working capital is $4.9 billion of readily marketable commodity inventories. Cash generated by operating activities decreased to $2.7 billion for the year compared to $5.3 billion last year due primarily to a $3.1 billion decrease in 2009 working capital requirements related to lower agricultural commodity market prices. Cash used in investing activities was $1.7 billion compared to $1.9 billion last year. Cash used in financing activities was $1.0 billion for the year compared to $3.2 billion last year due principally to a decrease in repayments of commercial paper borrowings part ially offset by the repurchase of $500 million of long term debt. At June 30, 2010, the Companys capital resources included net worth of $14.6 billion and lines of credit totaling $6.0 billion, of which $5.7 billion was unused. The Companys ratio of long term debt to total capital (the sum of the Companys long term debt and shareholders equity) was 32% at June 30, 2010 and 36% at June 30, 2009. This ratio is a measure of the Companys long term liquidity and is an indicator of financial flexibility. Of the Companys total lines of credit, $4.2 billion support a commercial paper borrowing facility, against which there were no borrowings at June 30, 2010. The Company has outstanding $1.15 billion principal amount of convertible senior notes. As of June 30, 2010, none of the conditions permitting conversion of these notes had been satisfied. The Company has purchased call options and warrants intended to reduce the potential shareholder dilution upon future conversion of the notes. As of June 30, 2010, the market price of the Companys common stock was not greater than the exercise price of the purchased call options or warrants related to the convertible senior notes. In June 2008, the Company issued $1.75 billion of debentures as a component of Equity Units (see Note 8 in Item 8). The debentures will be remarketed in 2011. The Equity Units are a combination of debt and forward contracts for the holder to purchase the Companys common stock. Each purchase contract obligates the holder to purchase from the Company, no later than June 1, 2011, for a price of $50 in cash, a certain number of shares, ranging from 1.0453 shares to 1.2544 shares, of the Companys common stock, based on a formula established in the contract. The Companys credit facilities and certain debentures require the Company to comply with specified financial and non financial covenants including maintenance of minimum tangible net worth as well as limitations related to incurring liens, secured debt, and certain other financing arrangements. The Company is in compliance with these covenants as of June 30, 2010. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements In the normal course of business, the Company enters into contracts and commitments which obligate the Company to make payments in the future. The following table sets forth the Companys significant future obligations by time period. Purchases include commodity based contracts entered into in the normal course of business, which are further described in Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, energy related purchase contracts entered into in the normal course of business, and other purchase obligations related to the Companys normal business activities. The following table does not include unrecognized income tax benefits of $84 million as at June 30, 2010, due to uncertainty of the timing of deductibility. Where applicable, information included in the Companys consolidated financial statements and notes is cross referenced in this table. Payments Due by Period Contractual Item 8 Note Less than 1 3 3 5 More than Obligations Reference Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years (In millions) Purchases Inventories $ 9,949 $ 9,508 $ 417 $ 6 $ 18 Energy 498 284 137 31 46 Other 409 143 208 56 2 Total purchases 10,856 9,935 762 93 66 Short term debt 374 374 Long term debt Note 8 7,174 344 428 1,076 5,326 Estimated interest payments 7,928 381 700 636 6,211 Operating leases Note 13 1,381 235 371 333 442 Estimated pension and other postretirement plan contributions (1) Note 14 150 45 17 21 67 Total $ 27,863 $ 11,314 $ 2,278 $ 2,159 $ 12,112 (1) The Company is unable to estimate the amount of pension contributions beyond fiscal year 2011. For more information concerning the Companys pension and other postretirement plans, see Note 14 in Item 8. At June 30, 2010, the Company estimates it will spend approximately $1.5 billion through calendar year 2013 to complete currently approved capital projects which are not included in the table above. The Company also has outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds of $459 million at June 30, 2010. In addition, the Company has entered into agreements, primarily debt guarantee agreements related to equity method investees, which could obligate the Company to make future payments. The Companys liability under these agreements arises only if the primary entity fails to perform its contractual obligation. The Company has collateral for a portion of these contingent obligations. At June 30, 2010, these contingent obligations totaled approximately $131 million. Amounts outstanding for the primary entity under these contingent obligations were $74 million at June 30, 2010. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Critical Accounting Policies The process of preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the carrying values of the Companys assets and liabilities as well as the recognition of revenues and expenses. These estimates and judgments are based on the Companys historical experience and managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Certain of the Companys accounting policies are considered critical, as these policies are important to the depiction of the Companys financial statements and require significant or complex judgment by management. Management has discussed with the Companys Audit Committee the development, selection, disclosure, and application of these critical accounting policies. Following are the accounting policies management considers critical to the Companys financial statements. Inventories and Derivatives Certain of the Companys merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, forward fixed price purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts are valued at estimated market values. These merchandisable agricultural commodities are freely traded, have quoted market prices, and may be sold without significant additional processing. Management estimates market value based on exchange quoted prices, adjusted for differences in local markets. Changes in the market values of these inventories and contracts are recognized in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. If management used different methods or factors to estimate market value, amounts reported as inventories and cost of products sold coul d differ materially. Additionally, if market conditions change subsequent to year end, amounts reported in future periods as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. The Company, from time to time, uses derivative contracts designated as cash flow hedges to fix the purchase price of anticipated volumes of commodities to be purchased and processed in a future month, to fix the purchase price of the Companys anticipated natural gas requirements for certain production facilities, and to fix the sales price of anticipated volumes of ethanol. The change in the market value of such derivative contracts has historically been, and is expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold and net sales and other operating income in th e statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. If it is determined that the derivative instruments used are no longer effective at offsetting changes in the price of the hedged item, then the changes in the market value of these exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts would be recorded in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. Employee Benefit Plans The Company provides substantially all domestic employees and employees at certain international subsidiaries with pension benefits. Eligible domestic employees with five or more years of service prior to January 1, 2009 participate in a defined benefit pension plan. Eligible domestic employees hired on or after January 1, 2009 (and eligible salaried employees with less than five years of service prior to January 1, 2009) participate in a cash balance pension formula. The Company provides eligible domestic employees who retire under qualifying conditions with access to postretirement health care, at full cost to the retiree (certain employees are grandfather ed into subsidized coverage). In order to measure the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans, management makes several estimates and assumptions, including interest rates used to discount certain liabilities, rates of return on assets set aside to fund these plans, rates of compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and anticipated future health care costs. These estimates and assumptions are based on the Companys historical experience combined with managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Management also uses third party actuaries to assist in measuring the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans. If management used different estimates and assumptions regarding these plans, the funded status of the plans could vary significantly, and the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Income Taxes The Company frequently faces challenges from domestic and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company records reserves for estimates of potential additional tax owed by the Company. As an example, a subsidiary of the Company received a tax assessment in the amount of $456 million (subject to variation in currency exchange rates) consisting of tax, penalty, and interest from the Brazilian Federal Revenue Service challenging the deductibility of commodity hedging losses incurred by the Company in 2004. The Company evaluated its tax position rega rding these hedging transactions and concluded, based in part upon advice from Brazilian legal counsel, that it was appropriate to recognize the tax benefits of these deductions (See Note 12 in Item 8 for additional information). Deferred tax assets represent items to be used as tax deductions or credits in future tax returns, and the related tax benefit has already been recognized in the Companys income statement. The realization of the Companys deferred tax assets is dependent upon future taxable income in specific tax jurisdictions, the timing and amount of which are uncertain. The Company evaluates all available positive and negative evidence including estimated future reversals of existing temporary differences, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies, and recent financial results. Valuation allowances related to these deferred tax assets have been established to the extent the realization of the tax benefit is not likely. To the extent the Company were to favorably resolve matters for which accruals have been established or be required to pay amounts in excess of the aforementioned reserves, the Companys effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be impacted. Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and affiliated corporate joint ventures accounted for on the equity method are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned factors may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and cash flows of the Compa nys assets in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its factories. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment, technology, and companies related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. The Company evaluates goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives for impairment annually. Assets are written down after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these assets, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Valuation of Marketable Securities and Investments in Affiliates The Company classifies the majority of its marketable securities as available for sale and carries these securities at fair value. The Company applies the equity method for investments in investees over which the Company has the ability to exercise significant influence. These investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings and are adjusted, where appropriate, for amortizable basis differences between the investment balance and the underlying net assets of the investee. For publicly traded securities, the fair value of the Companys investments is readily available based on quoted market prices. For non publicly traded securities, managements assessment of fair value is based on valuation methodologies including discounted cash flows and estima tes of sales proceeds. In the event of a decline in fair value of an investment below carrying value, management is required to determine if the decline in fair value is other than temporary. In evaluating the nature of a decline in the fair value of an investment, management considers the market conditions, trends of earnings, discounted cash flows, trading volumes, and other key measures of the investment as well as the Companys ability and intent to hold the investment. When such a decline in value is deemed to be other than temporary, an impairment loss is recognized in the current period operating results to the extent of the decline. See Notes 5 and 6 in Item 8 for information regarding the Companys marketable securities and investments in affiliates. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these marketable securities, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in: commodity market prices as they relate to the Companys net commodity position, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and prices of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to factors such as changes in weather conditions, disease, plantings, government programs and policies, competition, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. To reduce price risk caused by market fluctuations, the Company generally follows a policy of using exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts to minimize its net position of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories and forward cash purchase and sales contracts. The Company will also use exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the volatility of the relationship between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contracts defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company, from time to time, enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold or net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) A sensitivity analysis has been prepared to estimate the Companys exposure to market risk of its daily net commodity position. The Companys daily net commodity position consists of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, related purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts, including those contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements. The fair value of such daily net commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing each net position at quoted futures prices. Market risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in such prices. Actual results may differ. 2010 2009 Long/(Short) Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest position $ 429 $ 43 $ 845 $ 85 Lowest position (667 ) (67 ) (1,342 ) (134 ) Average position (190 ) (19 ) (392 ) (39 ) The change in fair value of the average position for 2010 compared to 2009 was principally the result of changes in average quantities underlying the daily net commodity position. Currencies The Company conducts its business in over 60 countries. For the majority of the Companys subsidiaries located outside the United States, the local currency is the functional currency. In order to reduce the risks associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, except for amounts permanently invested as described below, the Company follows a policy of entering into currency exchange contracts to mitigate its foreign currency risk related to transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currencies applicable to each of its various entities, primarily the Euro, British pound, Canadian dollar, and Brazilian real. The instruments used are forward contracts, swaps with banks, exchange traded futures contracts, and over the counter options. The changes in marke t value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $6.4 billion at June 30, 2010, and $6.6 billion at June 30, 2009. This decrease is due to the depreciation of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar partially offset by an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The potential loss in fair value, which would principally be recognized in Other Comprehensive Income, resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $639 million and $664 million for 2010 and 2009, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical .5% decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2010 2009 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 7,700 $ 8,103 Excess of fair value over carrying value 870 511 Market risk 289 310 The decrease in fair value of long term debt in 2010 resulted principally from the repurchase of $500 million in aggregate principal amount of the Companys outstanding debentures. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Income taxes for 2009 include charges of $158 million resulting from the restructuring of a holding company in which the Company holds a portion of its equity investment in Wilmar. Analysis of Statements of Earnings Net sales and other operating income decreased 1% to $69.2 billion due to foreign exchange translation impacts and decreased sales volumes partially offset by higher average selling prices. Net sales and other operating income increased $3.0 billion due to higher average selling prices primarily related to higher underlying commodity costs, decreased $2.0 billion due to foreign exchange translation impacts, and decreased $1.6 billion due to lower sales volumes and other. Net sales and other operating income by segment are as follows: 2009 2008 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing & Origination $ 15,579 $ 14,477 $ 1,102 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel & Other 8,760 8,588 172 Asia 179 214 (35 ) Total Oilseeds Processing 24,518 23,279 1,239 Corn Processing Sweeteners & Starches 3,785 3,546 239 Bioproducts 3,938 3,591 347 Total Corn Processing 7,723 7,137 586 Agricultural Services Merchandising & Handling 31,342 33,749 (2,407 ) Transportation 242 219 23 Total Agricultural Services 31,584 33,968 (2,384 ) Other Wheat, Cocoa & Malt 5,272 5,335 (63 ) Financial 110 97 13 Total Other 5,382 5,432 (50 ) Total $ 69,207 $ 69,816 $ (609 ) Oilseeds Processing sales increased 5% to $24.5 billion due principally to increased sales volumes of merchandised oilseeds and biodiesel partially offset by lower sales volumes of vegetable oil and protein meal. Corn Processing sales increased 8% to $7.7 billion due principally to higher sales volumes of ethanol and higher average selling prices of sweeteners and starches, partially offset by lower average selling prices of ethanol. Agricultural Services sales decreased 7% to $31.6 billion due principally to lower sales volumes of grain. Other sales decreased 1% to $5.4 billion primarily due to the sale of the Companys malting business during the first quarter of fiscal year 2009 and lower average selling prices of wheat flour. Partially offsetting these decreases were higher average selling prices of cocoa products and increased chocolate sales volumes. Cost of products sold decreased 1% to $65.1 billion, in line with the decrease in net sales and other operating income. Cost of products sold decreased $856 million due principally to decreased sales volumes, decreased LIFO inventory valuations and approximately $1.9 billion from the impact of foreign currency translation, partially offset by increased agricultural commodity costs. Manufacturing expenses decreased $215 million primarily due to decreased energy and fuel costs. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Selling, general and administrative expenses of $1.4 billion were comparable to 2008. Decreased employee related costs and favorable impacts from foreign currency translation were offset by increases in provisions for doubtful accounts. Other (income) expense net decreased $348 million primarily due to decreased results from equity earnings of unconsolidated affiliates of $270 million, and decreased investment income. Equity earnings in unconsolidated affiliates included a non cash charge of $275 million of foreign exchange derivative losses incurred by the Companys equity investee, Gruma S.A.B. de C.V. Operating profit by segment is as follows: 2009 2008 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing & Origination $ 767 $ 727 $ 40 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel & Other 265 181 84 Asia 248 132 116 Total Oilseeds Processing 1,280 1,040 240 Corn Processing Sweeteners & Starches 500 557 (57 ) Bioproducts (315 ) 404 (719 ) Total Corn Processing 185 961 (776 ) Agricultural Services Merchandising & Handling 832 873 (41 ) Transportation 162 144 18 Total Agricultural Services 994 1,017 (23 ) Other Wheat, Cocoa & Malt 51 217 (166 ) Financial (57 ) 206 (263 ) Total Other (6 ) 423 (429 ) Total Segment Operating Profit 2,453 3,441 (988 ) Corporate (see below) 47 (847 ) 894 Earnings Before Income Taxes $ 2,500 $ 2,594 $ (94 ) Corporate results are as follows: 2009 2008 Change (In millions) LIFO credit (charge) $ 517 $ (569 ) $ 1,086 Interest expense (income) net (192 ) 49 (241 ) Corporate costs (252 ) (262 ) 10 Other (26 ) (65 ) 39 Total Corporate $ 47 $ (847 ) $ 894 Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Oilseeds Processing operating profit increased 23% to $1.3 billion. Crushing and origination results increased $40 million. Improved global crushing margins were partially offset by lower fertilizer sales volumes and margins and lower North American crushing volumes due to decreased demand for vegetable oil and protein meal. Refining, packaging, biodiesel and other results increased $84 million due principally to higher biodiesel sales volumes in South America and increased average margins for value added products. 2008 results for refining, packaging, biodiesel and other included asset abandonment charges of $27 million. Asia results increased $116 million due principally to the Companys share in improved operating results of Wilmar. Corn Processing operating profits decreased 81% to $185 million. Sweeteners and starches decreased $57 million due to the impact of higher net corn costs partially offset by higher average sweetener and starches selling prices. Bioproducts operating profit decreased $719 million for the year as ethanol and lysine margins declined significantly due to higher corn costs and lower average selling prices. Ethanol margins were also impacted by lower demand for gasoline, decreased gasoline prices, and excess ethanol industry capacity. Agricultural Services operating profits decreased 2% to $994 million. Merchandising and handling profit decreased $41 million. Merchandising margins moderated as demand for commodities slowed following the downturn in the global economy. Transportation results increased $18 million due to higher barge freight rates. Other operating profits decreased 101% to a loss of $6 million. Wheat, cocoa, and malt processing operating profit decreased $166 million for the year primarily due to equity losses from the Companys investment in Gruma, partially offset by improved cocoa and wheat processing margins. Financial operating profit decreased $263 million due to losses on managed fund investments compared to gains for the year ended June 30, 2008, increased captive insurance loss provisions and decreased interest income and lower marketable security gains of the Companys brokerage service business. Corporate results increased $894 million to $47 million, primarily due to the effects of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations which resulted in credits of $517 million for the year ended June 30, 2009, compared to $569 million of LIFO charges for the year ended June 30, 2008. Unallocated interest expense increased $241 million primarily due to higher long term debt interest expense and decreased interest income. Corporate interest income decreased due to lower short term interest rates and lower working capital requirements of the operating segments. The Companys effective tax rate during 2009 was 32.5% compared to 31.1% during 2008. Income taxes increased $4 million. Lower pre tax earnings and positive impacts from favorable changes in geographic mix of earnings, currency translation impacts in South America, lower tax rates in certain foreign jurisdictions, and return to provision adjustments, were offset by charges of $158 million resulting from the restructuring of a holding company in which the Company holds a portion of its equity investment in Wilmar. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Liquidity and Capital Resources A Company objective is to have sufficient liquidity, balance sheet strength, and financial flexibility to fund the operating and capital requirements of a capital intensive agricultural commodity based business. The primary source of funds to finance the Companys operations and capital expenditures is cash generated by operations. In addition, the Company maintains a commercial paper borrowing facility and has access to equity and debt capital from public and private sources in both domestic and international markets. At June 30, 2010, the Company had $1.4 billion of cash, cash equivalents, and short term marketable securities and a current ratio, defined as current assets divided by current liabilities, of 2.1 to 1. Included in working capital is $4.9 billion of readily marketable commodity inventories. Cash generated by operating activities decreased to $2.7 billion for the year compared to $5.3 billion last year due primarily to a $3.1 billion decrease in 2009 working capital requirements related to lower agricultural commodity market prices. Cash used in investing activities was $1.7 billion compared to $1.9 billion last year. Cash used in financing activities was $1.0 billion for the year compared to $3.2 billion last year due principally to a decrease in repayments of commercial paper borrowings part ially offset by the repurchase of $500 million of long term debt. At June 30, 2010, the Companys capital resources included net worth of $14.6 billion and lines of credit totaling $6.0 billion, of which $5.7 billion was unused. The Companys ratio of long term debt to total capital (the sum of the Companys long term debt and shareholders equity) was 32% at June 30, 2010 and 36% at June 30, 2009. This ratio is a measure of the Companys long term liquidity and is an indicator of financial flexibility. Of the Companys total lines of credit, $4.2 billion support a commercial paper borrowing facility, against which there were no borrowings at June 30, 2010. The Company has outstanding $1.15 billion principal amount of convertible senior notes. As of June 30, 2010, none of the conditions permitting conversion of these notes had been satisfied. The Company has purchased call options and warrants intended to reduce the potential shareholder dilution upon future conversion of the notes. As of June 30, 2010, the market price of the Companys common stock was not greater than the exercise price of the purchased call options or warrants related to the convertible senior notes. In June 2008, the Company issued $1.75 billion of debentures as a component of Equity Units (see Note 8 in Item 8). The debentures will be remarketed in 2011. The Equity Units are a combination of debt and forward contracts for the holder to purchase the Companys common stock. Each purchase contract obligates the holder to purchase from the Company, no later than June 1, 2011, for a price of $50 in cash, a certain number of shares, ranging from 1.0453 shares to 1.2544 shares, of the Companys common stock, based on a formula established in the contract. The Companys credit facilities and certain debentures require the Company to comply with specified financial and non financial covenants including maintenance of minimum tangible net worth as well as limitations related to incurring liens, secured debt, and certain other financing arrangements. The Company is in compliance with these covenants as of June 30, 2010. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements In the normal course of business, the Company enters into contracts and commitments which obligate the Company to make payments in the future. The following table sets forth the Companys significant future obligations by time period. Purchases include commodity based contracts entered into in the normal course of business, which are further described in Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, energy related purchase contracts entered into in the normal course of business, and other purchase obligations related to the Companys normal business activities. The following table does not include unrecognized income tax benefits of $84 million as at June 30, 2010, due to uncertainty of the timing of deductibility. Where applicable, information included in the Companys consolidated financial statements and notes is cross referenced in this table. Payments Due by Period Contractual Item 8 Note Less than 1 3 3 5 More than Obligations Reference Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years (In millions) Purchases Inventories $ 9,949 $ 9,508 $ 417 $ 6 $ 18 Energy 498 284 137 31 46 Other 409 143 208 56 2 Total purchases 10,856 9,935 762 93 66 Short term debt 374 374 Long term debt Note 8 7,174 344 428 1,076 5,326 Estimated interest payments 7,928 381 700 636 6,211 Operating leases Note 13 1,381 235 371 333 442 Estimated pension and other postretirement plan contributions (1) Note 14 150 45 17 21 67 Total $ 27,863 $ 11,314 $ 2,278 $ 2,159 $ 12,112 (1) The Company is unable to estimate the amount of pension contributions beyond fiscal year 2011. For more information concerning the Companys pension and other postretirement plans, see Note 14 in Item 8. At June 30, 2010, the Company estimates it will spend approximately $1.5 billion through calendar year 2013 to complete currently approved capital projects which are not included in the table above. The Company also has outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds of $459 million at June 30, 2010. In addition, the Company has entered into agreements, primarily debt guarantee agreements related to equity method investees, which could obligate the Company to make future payments. The Companys liability under these agreements arises only if the primary entity fails to perform its contractual obligation. The Company has collateral for a portion of these contingent obligations. At June 30, 2010, these contingent obligations totaled approximately $131 million. Amounts outstanding for the primary entity under these contingent obligations were $74 million at June 30, 2010. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Critical Accounting Policies The process of preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the carrying values of the Companys assets and liabilities as well as the recognition of revenues and expenses. These estimates and judgments are based on the Companys historical experience and managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Certain of the Companys accounting policies are considered critical, as these policies are important to the depiction of the Companys financial statements and require significant or complex judgment by management. Management has discussed with the Companys Audit Committee the development, selection, disclosure, and application of these critical accounting policies. Following are the accounting policies management considers critical to the Companys financial statements. Inventories and Derivatives Certain of the Companys merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, forward fixed price purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts are valued at estimated market values. These merchandisable agricultural commodities are freely traded, have quoted market prices, and may be sold without significant additional processing. Management estimates market value based on exchange quoted prices, adjusted for differences in local markets. Changes in the market values of these inventories and contracts are recognized in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. If management used different methods or factors to estimate market value, amounts reported as inventories and cost of products sold coul d differ materially. Additionally, if market conditions change subsequent to year end, amounts reported in future periods as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. The Company, from time to time, uses derivative contracts designated as cash flow hedges to fix the purchase price of anticipated volumes of commodities to be purchased and processed in a future month, to fix the purchase price of the Companys anticipated natural gas requirements for certain production facilities, and to fix the sales price of anticipated volumes of ethanol. The change in the market value of such derivative contracts has historically been, and is expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold and net sales and other operating income in th e statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. If it is determined that the derivative instruments used are no longer effective at offsetting changes in the price of the hedged item, then the changes in the market value of these exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts would be recorded in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. Employee Benefit Plans The Company provides substantially all domestic employees and employees at certain international subsidiaries with pension benefits. Eligible domestic employees with five or more years of service prior to January 1, 2009 participate in a defined benefit pension plan. Eligible domestic employees hired on or after January 1, 2009 (and eligible salaried employees with less than five years of service prior to January 1, 2009) participate in a cash balance pension formula. The Company provides eligible domestic employees who retire under qualifying conditions with access to postretirement health care, at full cost to the retiree (certain employees are grandfather ed into subsidized coverage). In order to measure the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans, management makes several estimates and assumptions, including interest rates used to discount certain liabilities, rates of return on assets set aside to fund these plans, rates of compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and anticipated future health care costs. These estimates and assumptions are based on the Companys historical experience combined with managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Management also uses third party actuaries to assist in measuring the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans. If management used different estimates and assumptions regarding these plans, the funded status of the plans could vary significantly, and the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Income Taxes The Company frequently faces challenges from domestic and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company records reserves for estimates of potential additional tax owed by the Company. As an example, a subsidiary of the Company received a tax assessment in the amount of $456 million (subject to variation in currency exchange rates) consisting of tax, penalty, and interest from the Brazilian Federal Revenue Service challenging the deductibility of commodity hedging losses incurred by the Company in 2004. The Company evaluated its tax position rega rding these hedging transactions and concluded, based in part upon advice from Brazilian legal counsel, that it was appropriate to recognize the tax benefits of these deductions (See Note 12 in Item 8 for additional information). Deferred tax assets represent items to be used as tax deductions or credits in future tax returns, and the related tax benefit has already been recognized in the Companys income statement. The realization of the Companys deferred tax assets is dependent upon future taxable income in specific tax jurisdictions, the timing and amount of which are uncertain. The Company evaluates all available positive and negative evidence including estimated future reversals of existing temporary differences, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies, and recent financial results. Valuation allowances related to these deferred tax assets have been established to the extent the realization of the tax benefit is not likely. To the extent the Company were to favorably resolve matters for which accruals have been established or be required to pay amounts in excess of the aforementioned reserves, the Companys effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be impacted. Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and affiliated corporate joint ventures accounted for on the equity method are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned factors may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and cash flows of the Compa nys assets in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its factories. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment, technology, and companies related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. The Company evaluates goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives for impairment annually. Assets are written down after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these assets, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Valuation of Marketable Securities and Investments in Affiliates The Company classifies the majority of its marketable securities as available for sale and carries these securities at fair value. The Company applies the equity method for investments in investees over which the Company has the ability to exercise significant influence. These investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings and are adjusted, where appropriate, for amortizable basis differences between the investment balance and the underlying net assets of the investee. For publicly traded securities, the fair value of the Companys investments is readily available based on quoted market prices. For non publicly traded securities, managements assessment of fair value is based on valuation methodologies including discounted cash flows and estima tes of sales proceeds. In the event of a decline in fair value of an investment below carrying value, management is required to determine if the decline in fair value is other than temporary. In evaluating the nature of a decline in the fair value of an investment, management considers the market conditions, trends of earnings, discounted cash flows, trading volumes, and other key measures of the investment as well as the Companys ability and intent to hold the investment. When such a decline in value is deemed to be other than temporary, an impairment loss is recognized in the current period operating results to the extent of the decline. See Notes 5 and 6 in Item 8 for information regarding the Companys marketable securities and investments in affiliates. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these marketable securities, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in: commodity market prices as they relate to the Companys net commodity position, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and prices of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to factors such as changes in weather conditions, disease, plantings, government programs and policies, competition, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. To reduce price risk caused by market fluctuations, the Company generally follows a policy of using exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts to minimize its net position of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories and forward cash purchase and sales contracts. The Company will also use exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the volatility of the relationship between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contracts defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company, from time to time, enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold or net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) A sensitivity analysis has been prepared to estimate the Companys exposure to market risk of its daily net commodity position. The Companys daily net commodity position consists of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, related purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts, including those contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements. The fair value of such daily net commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing each net position at quoted futures prices. Market risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in such prices. Actual results may differ. 2010 2009 Long/(Short) Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest position $ 429 $ 43 $ 845 $ 85 Lowest position (667 ) (67 ) (1,342 ) (134 ) Average position (190 ) (19 ) (392 ) (39 ) The change in fair value of the average position for 2010 compared to 2009 was principally the result of changes in average quantities underlying the daily net commodity position. Currencies The Company conducts its business in over 60 countries. For the majority of the Companys subsidiaries located outside the United States, the local currency is the functional currency. In order to reduce the risks associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, except for amounts permanently invested as described below, the Company follows a policy of entering into currency exchange contracts to mitigate its foreign currency risk related to transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currencies applicable to each of its various entities, primarily the Euro, British pound, Canadian dollar, and Brazilian real. The instruments used are forward contracts, swaps with banks, exchange traded futures contracts, and over the counter options. The changes in marke t value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $6.4 billion at June 30, 2010, and $6.6 billion at June 30, 2009. This decrease is due to the depreciation of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar partially offset by an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The potential loss in fair value, which would principally be recognized in Other Comprehensive Income, resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $639 million and $664 million for 2010 and 2009, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical .5% decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2010 2009 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 7,700 $ 8,103 Excess of fair value over carrying value 870 511 Market risk 289 310 The decrease in fair value of long term debt in 2010 resulted principally from the repurchase of $500 million in aggregate principal amount of the Companys outstanding debentures. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Selling, general and administrative expenses of $1.4 billion were comparable to 2008. Decreased employee related costs and favorable impacts from foreign currency translation were offset by increases in provisions for doubtful accounts. Other (income) expense net decreased $348 million primarily due to decreased results from equity earnings of unconsolidated affiliates of $270 million, and decreased investment income. Equity earnings in unconsolidated affiliates included a non cash charge of $275 million of foreign exchange derivative losses incurred by the Companys equity investee, Gruma S.A.B. de C.V. Operating profit by segment is as follows: 2009 2008 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing & Origination $ 767 $ 727 $ 40 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel & Other 265 181 84 Asia 248 132 116 Total Oilseeds Processing 1,280 1,040 240 Corn Processing Sweeteners & Starches 500 557 (57 ) Bioproducts (315 ) 404 (719 ) Total Corn Processing 185 961 (776 ) Agricultural Services Merchandising & Handling 832 873 (41 ) Transportation 162 144 18 Total Agricultural Services 994 1,017 (23 ) Other Wheat, Cocoa & Malt 51 217 (166 ) Financial (57 ) 206 (263 ) Total Other (6 ) 423 (429 ) Total Segment Operating Profit 2,453 3,441 (988 ) Corporate (see below) 47 (847 ) 894 Earnings Before Income Taxes $ 2,500 $ 2,594 $ (94 ) Corporate results are as follows: 2009 2008 Change (In millions) LIFO credit (charge) $ 517 $ (569 ) $ 1,086 Interest expense (income) net (192 ) 49 (241 ) Corporate costs (252 ) (262 ) 10 Other (26 ) (65 ) 39 Total Corporate $ 47 $ (847 ) $ 894 Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Oilseeds Processing operating profit increased 23% to $1.3 billion. Crushing and origination results increased $40 million. Improved global crushing margins were partially offset by lower fertilizer sales volumes and margins and lower North American crushing volumes due to decreased demand for vegetable oil and protein meal. Refining, packaging, biodiesel and other results increased $84 million due principally to higher biodiesel sales volumes in South America and increased average margins for value added products. 2008 results for refining, packaging, biodiesel and other included asset abandonment charges of $27 million. Asia results increased $116 million due principally to the Companys share in improved operating results of Wilmar. Corn Processing operating profits decreased 81% to $185 million. Sweeteners and starches decreased $57 million due to the impact of higher net corn costs partially offset by higher average sweetener and starches selling prices. Bioproducts operating profit decreased $719 million for the year as ethanol and lysine margins declined significantly due to higher corn costs and lower average selling prices. Ethanol margins were also impacted by lower demand for gasoline, decreased gasoline prices, and excess ethanol industry capacity. Agricultural Services operating profits decreased 2% to $994 million. Merchandising and handling profit decreased $41 million. Merchandising margins moderated as demand for commodities slowed following the downturn in the global economy. Transportation results increased $18 million due to higher barge freight rates. Other operating profits decreased 101% to a loss of $6 million. Wheat, cocoa, and malt processing operating profit decreased $166 million for the year primarily due to equity losses from the Companys investment in Gruma, partially offset by improved cocoa and wheat processing margins. Financial operating profit decreased $263 million due to losses on managed fund investments compared to gains for the year ended June 30, 2008, increased captive insurance loss provisions and decreased interest income and lower marketable security gains of the Companys brokerage service business. Corporate results increased $894 million to $47 million, primarily due to the effects of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations which resulted in credits of $517 million for the year ended June 30, 2009, compared to $569 million of LIFO charges for the year ended June 30, 2008. Unallocated interest expense increased $241 million primarily due to higher long term debt interest expense and decreased interest income. Corporate interest income decreased due to lower short term interest rates and lower working capital requirements of the operating segments. The Companys effective tax rate during 2009 was 32.5% compared to 31.1% during 2008. Income taxes increased $4 million. Lower pre tax earnings and positive impacts from favorable changes in geographic mix of earnings, currency translation impacts in South America, lower tax rates in certain foreign jurisdictions, and return to provision adjustments, were offset by charges of $158 million resulting from the restructuring of a holding company in which the Company holds a portion of its equity investment in Wilmar. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Liquidity and Capital Resources A Company objective is to have sufficient liquidity, balance sheet strength, and financial flexibility to fund the operating and capital requirements of a capital intensive agricultural commodity based business. The primary source of funds to finance the Companys operations and capital expenditures is cash generated by operations. In addition, the Company maintains a commercial paper borrowing facility and has access to equity and debt capital from public and private sources in both domestic and international markets. At June 30, 2010, the Company had $1.4 billion of cash, cash equivalents, and short term marketable securities and a current ratio, defined as current assets divided by current liabilities, of 2.1 to 1. Included in working capital is $4.9 billion of readily marketable commodity inventories. Cash generated by operating activities decreased to $2.7 billion for the year compared to $5.3 billion last year due primarily to a $3.1 billion decrease in 2009 working capital requirements related to lower agricultural commodity market prices. Cash used in investing activities was $1.7 billion compared to $1.9 billion last year. Cash used in financing activities was $1.0 billion for the year compared to $3.2 billion last year due principally to a decrease in repayments of commercial paper borrowings part ially offset by the repurchase of $500 million of long term debt. At June 30, 2010, the Companys capital resources included net worth of $14.6 billion and lines of credit totaling $6.0 billion, of which $5.7 billion was unused. The Companys ratio of long term debt to total capital (the sum of the Companys long term debt and shareholders equity) was 32% at June 30, 2010 and 36% at June 30, 2009. This ratio is a measure of the Companys long term liquidity and is an indicator of financial flexibility. Of the Companys total lines of credit, $4.2 billion support a commercial paper borrowing facility, against which there were no borrowings at June 30, 2010. The Company has outstanding $1.15 billion principal amount of convertible senior notes. As of June 30, 2010, none of the conditions permitting conversion of these notes had been satisfied. The Company has purchased call options and warrants intended to reduce the potential shareholder dilution upon future conversion of the notes. As of June 30, 2010, the market price of the Companys common stock was not greater than the exercise price of the purchased call options or warrants related to the convertible senior notes. In June 2008, the Company issued $1.75 billion of debentures as a component of Equity Units (see Note 8 in Item 8). The debentures will be remarketed in 2011. The Equity Units are a combination of debt and forward contracts for the holder to purchase the Companys common stock. Each purchase contract obligates the holder to purchase from the Company, no later than June 1, 2011, for a price of $50 in cash, a certain number of shares, ranging from 1.0453 shares to 1.2544 shares, of the Companys common stock, based on a formula established in the contract. The Companys credit facilities and certain debentures require the Company to comply with specified financial and non financial covenants including maintenance of minimum tangible net worth as well as limitations related to incurring liens, secured debt, and certain other financing arrangements. The Company is in compliance with these covenants as of June 30, 2010. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements In the normal course of business, the Company enters into contracts and commitments which obligate the Company to make payments in the future. The following table sets forth the Companys significant future obligations by time period. Purchases include commodity based contracts entered into in the normal course of business, which are further described in Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, energy related purchase contracts entered into in the normal course of business, and other purchase obligations related to the Companys normal business activities. The following table does not include unrecognized income tax benefits of $84 million as at June 30, 2010, due to uncertainty of the timing of deductibility. Where applicable, information included in the Companys consolidated financial statements and notes is cross referenced in this table. Payments Due by Period Contractual Item 8 Note Less than 1 3 3 5 More than Obligations Reference Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years (In millions) Purchases Inventories $ 9,949 $ 9,508 $ 417 $ 6 $ 18 Energy 498 284 137 31 46 Other 409 143 208 56 2 Total purchases 10,856 9,935 762 93 66 Short term debt 374 374 Long term debt Note 8 7,174 344 428 1,076 5,326 Estimated interest payments 7,928 381 700 636 6,211 Operating leases Note 13 1,381 235 371 333 442 Estimated pension and other postretirement plan contributions (1) Note 14 150 45 17 21 67 Total $ 27,863 $ 11,314 $ 2,278 $ 2,159 $ 12,112 (1) The Company is unable to estimate the amount of pension contributions beyond fiscal year 2011. For more information concerning the Companys pension and other postretirement plans, see Note 14 in Item 8. At June 30, 2010, the Company estimates it will spend approximately $1.5 billion through calendar year 2013 to complete currently approved capital projects which are not included in the table above. The Company also has outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds of $459 million at June 30, 2010. In addition, the Company has entered into agreements, primarily debt guarantee agreements related to equity method investees, which could obligate the Company to make future payments. The Companys liability under these agreements arises only if the primary entity fails to perform its contractual obligation. The Company has collateral for a portion of these contingent obligations. At June 30, 2010, these contingent obligations totaled approximately $131 million. Amounts outstanding for the primary entity under these contingent obligations were $74 million at June 30, 2010. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Critical Accounting Policies The process of preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the carrying values of the Companys assets and liabilities as well as the recognition of revenues and expenses. These estimates and judgments are based on the Companys historical experience and managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Certain of the Companys accounting policies are considered critical, as these policies are important to the depiction of the Companys financial statements and require significant or complex judgment by management. Management has discussed with the Companys Audit Committee the development, selection, disclosure, and application of these critical accounting policies. Following are the accounting policies management considers critical to the Companys financial statements. Inventories and Derivatives Certain of the Companys merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, forward fixed price purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts are valued at estimated market values. These merchandisable agricultural commodities are freely traded, have quoted market prices, and may be sold without significant additional processing. Management estimates market value based on exchange quoted prices, adjusted for differences in local markets. Changes in the market values of these inventories and contracts are recognized in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. If management used different methods or factors to estimate market value, amounts reported as inventories and cost of products sold coul d differ materially. Additionally, if market conditions change subsequent to year end, amounts reported in future periods as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. The Company, from time to time, uses derivative contracts designated as cash flow hedges to fix the purchase price of anticipated volumes of commodities to be purchased and processed in a future month, to fix the purchase price of the Companys anticipated natural gas requirements for certain production facilities, and to fix the sales price of anticipated volumes of ethanol. The change in the market value of such derivative contracts has historically been, and is expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold and net sales and other operating income in th e statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. If it is determined that the derivative instruments used are no longer effective at offsetting changes in the price of the hedged item, then the changes in the market value of these exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts would be recorded in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. Employee Benefit Plans The Company provides substantially all domestic employees and employees at certain international subsidiaries with pension benefits. Eligible domestic employees with five or more years of service prior to January 1, 2009 participate in a defined benefit pension plan. Eligible domestic employees hired on or after January 1, 2009 (and eligible salaried employees with less than five years of service prior to January 1, 2009) participate in a cash balance pension formula. The Company provides eligible domestic employees who retire under qualifying conditions with access to postretirement health care, at full cost to the retiree (certain employees are grandfather ed into subsidized coverage). In order to measure the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans, management makes several estimates and assumptions, including interest rates used to discount certain liabilities, rates of return on assets set aside to fund these plans, rates of compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and anticipated future health care costs. These estimates and assumptions are based on the Companys historical experience combined with managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Management also uses third party actuaries to assist in measuring the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans. If management used different estimates and assumptions regarding these plans, the funded status of the plans could vary significantly, and the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Income Taxes The Company frequently faces challenges from domestic and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company records reserves for estimates of potential additional tax owed by the Company. As an example, a subsidiary of the Company received a tax assessment in the amount of $456 million (subject to variation in currency exchange rates) consisting of tax, penalty, and interest from the Brazilian Federal Revenue Service challenging the deductibility of commodity hedging losses incurred by the Company in 2004. The Company evaluated its tax position rega rding these hedging transactions and concluded, based in part upon advice from Brazilian legal counsel, that it was appropriate to recognize the tax benefits of these deductions (See Note 12 in Item 8 for additional information). Deferred tax assets represent items to be used as tax deductions or credits in future tax returns, and the related tax benefit has already been recognized in the Companys income statement. The realization of the Companys deferred tax assets is dependent upon future taxable income in specific tax jurisdictions, the timing and amount of which are uncertain. The Company evaluates all available positive and negative evidence including estimated future reversals of existing temporary differences, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies, and recent financial results. Valuation allowances related to these deferred tax assets have been established to the extent the realization of the tax benefit is not likely. To the extent the Company were to favorably resolve matters for which accruals have been established or be required to pay amounts in excess of the aforementioned reserves, the Companys effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be impacted. Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and affiliated corporate joint ventures accounted for on the equity method are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned factors may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and cash flows of the Compa nys assets in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its factories. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment, technology, and companies related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. The Company evaluates goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives for impairment annually. Assets are written down after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these assets, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Valuation of Marketable Securities and Investments in Affiliates The Company classifies the majority of its marketable securities as available for sale and carries these securities at fair value. The Company applies the equity method for investments in investees over which the Company has the ability to exercise significant influence. These investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings and are adjusted, where appropriate, for amortizable basis differences between the investment balance and the underlying net assets of the investee. For publicly traded securities, the fair value of the Companys investments is readily available based on quoted market prices. For non publicly traded securities, managements assessment of fair value is based on valuation methodologies including discounted cash flows and estima tes of sales proceeds. In the event of a decline in fair value of an investment below carrying value, management is required to determine if the decline in fair value is other than temporary. In evaluating the nature of a decline in the fair value of an investment, management considers the market conditions, trends of earnings, discounted cash flows, trading volumes, and other key measures of the investment as well as the Companys ability and intent to hold the investment. When such a decline in value is deemed to be other than temporary, an impairment loss is recognized in the current period operating results to the extent of the decline. See Notes 5 and 6 in Item 8 for information regarding the Companys marketable securities and investments in affiliates. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these marketable securities, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in: commodity market prices as they relate to the Companys net commodity position, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and prices of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to factors such as changes in weather conditions, disease, plantings, government programs and policies, competition, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. To reduce price risk caused by market fluctuations, the Company generally follows a policy of using exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts to minimize its net position of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories and forward cash purchase and sales contracts. The Company will also use exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the volatility of the relationship between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contracts defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company, from time to time, enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold or net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) A sensitivity analysis has been prepared to estimate the Companys exposure to market risk of its daily net commodity position. The Companys daily net commodity position consists of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, related purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts, including those contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements. The fair value of such daily net commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing each net position at quoted futures prices. Market risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in such prices. Actual results may differ. 2010 2009 Long/(Short) Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest position $ 429 $ 43 $ 845 $ 85 Lowest position (667 ) (67 ) (1,342 ) (134 ) Average position (190 ) (19 ) (392 ) (39 ) The change in fair value of the average position for 2010 compared to 2009 was principally the result of changes in average quantities underlying the daily net commodity position. Currencies The Company conducts its business in over 60 countries. For the majority of the Companys subsidiaries located outside the United States, the local currency is the functional currency. In order to reduce the risks associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, except for amounts permanently invested as described below, the Company follows a policy of entering into currency exchange contracts to mitigate its foreign currency risk related to transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currencies applicable to each of its various entities, primarily the Euro, British pound, Canadian dollar, and Brazilian real. The instruments used are forward contracts, swaps with banks, exchange traded futures contracts, and over the counter options. The changes in marke t value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $6.4 billion at June 30, 2010, and $6.6 billion at June 30, 2009. This decrease is due to the depreciation of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar partially offset by an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The potential loss in fair value, which would principally be recognized in Other Comprehensive Income, resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $639 million and $664 million for 2010 and 2009, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical .5% decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2010 2009 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 7,700 $ 8,103 Excess of fair value over carrying value 870 511 Market risk 289 310 The decrease in fair value of long term debt in 2010 resulted principally from the repurchase of $500 million in aggregate principal amount of the Companys outstanding debentures. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Oilseeds Processing operating profit increased 23% to $1.3 billion. Crushing and origination results increased $40 million. Improved global crushing margins were partially offset by lower fertilizer sales volumes and margins and lower North American crushing volumes due to decreased demand for vegetable oil and protein meal. Refining, packaging, biodiesel and other results increased $84 million due principally to higher biodiesel sales volumes in South America and increased average margins for value added products. 2008 results for refining, packaging, biodiesel and other included asset abandonment charges of $27 million. Asia results increased $116 million due principally to the Companys share in improved operating results of Wilmar. Corn Processing operating profits decreased 81% to $185 million. Sweeteners and starches decreased $57 million due to the impact of higher net corn costs partially offset by higher average sweetener and starches selling prices. Bioproducts operating profit decreased $719 million for the year as ethanol and lysine margins declined significantly due to higher corn costs and lower average selling prices. Ethanol margins were also impacted by lower demand for gasoline, decreased gasoline prices, and excess ethanol industry capacity. Agricultural Services operating profits decreased 2% to $994 million. Merchandising and handling profit decreased $41 million. Merchandising margins moderated as demand for commodities slowed following the downturn in the global economy. Transportation results increased $18 million due to higher barge freight rates. Other operating profits decreased 101% to a loss of $6 million. Wheat, cocoa, and malt processing operating profit decreased $166 million for the year primarily due to equity losses from the Companys investment in Gruma, partially offset by improved cocoa and wheat processing margins. Financial operating profit decreased $263 million due to losses on managed fund investments compared to gains for the year ended June 30, 2008, increased captive insurance loss provisions and decreased interest income and lower marketable security gains of the Companys brokerage service business. Corporate results increased $894 million to $47 million, primarily due to the effects of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations which resulted in credits of $517 million for the year ended June 30, 2009, compared to $569 million of LIFO charges for the year ended June 30, 2008. Unallocated interest expense increased $241 million primarily due to higher long term debt interest expense and decreased interest income. Corporate interest income decreased due to lower short term interest rates and lower working capital requirements of the operating segments. The Companys effective tax rate during 2009 was 32.5% compared to 31.1% during 2008. Income taxes increased $4 million. Lower pre tax earnings and positive impacts from favorable changes in geographic mix of earnings, currency translation impacts in South America, lower tax rates in certain foreign jurisdictions, and return to provision adjustments, were offset by charges of $158 million resulting from the restructuring of a holding company in which the Company holds a portion of its equity investment in Wilmar. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Liquidity and Capital Resources A Company objective is to have sufficient liquidity, balance sheet strength, and financial flexibility to fund the operating and capital requirements of a capital intensive agricultural commodity based business. The primary source of funds to finance the Companys operations and capital expenditures is cash generated by operations. In addition, the Company maintains a commercial paper borrowing facility and has access to equity and debt capital from public and private sources in both domestic and international markets. At June 30, 2010, the Company had $1.4 billion of cash, cash equivalents, and short term marketable securities and a current ratio, defined as current assets divided by current liabilities, of 2.1 to 1. Included in working capital is $4.9 billion of readily marketable commodity inventories. Cash generated by operating activities decreased to $2.7 billion for the year compared to $5.3 billion last year due primarily to a $3.1 billion decrease in 2009 working capital requirements related to lower agricultural commodity market prices. Cash used in investing activities was $1.7 billion compared to $1.9 billion last year. Cash used in financing activities was $1.0 billion for the year compared to $3.2 billion last year due principally to a decrease in repayments of commercial paper borrowings part ially offset by the repurchase of $500 million of long term debt. At June 30, 2010, the Companys capital resources included net worth of $14.6 billion and lines of credit totaling $6.0 billion, of which $5.7 billion was unused. The Companys ratio of long term debt to total capital (the sum of the Companys long term debt and shareholders equity) was 32% at June 30, 2010 and 36% at June 30, 2009. This ratio is a measure of the Companys long term liquidity and is an indicator of financial flexibility. Of the Companys total lines of credit, $4.2 billion support a commercial paper borrowing facility, against which there were no borrowings at June 30, 2010. The Company has outstanding $1.15 billion principal amount of convertible senior notes. As of June 30, 2010, none of the conditions permitting conversion of these notes had been satisfied. The Company has purchased call options and warrants intended to reduce the potential shareholder dilution upon future conversion of the notes. As of June 30, 2010, the market price of the Companys common stock was not greater than the exercise price of the purchased call options or warrants related to the convertible senior notes. In June 2008, the Company issued $1.75 billion of debentures as a component of Equity Units (see Note 8 in Item 8). The debentures will be remarketed in 2011. The Equity Units are a combination of debt and forward contracts for the holder to purchase the Companys common stock. Each purchase contract obligates the holder to purchase from the Company, no later than June 1, 2011, for a price of $50 in cash, a certain number of shares, ranging from 1.0453 shares to 1.2544 shares, of the Companys common stock, based on a formula established in the contract. The Companys credit facilities and certain debentures require the Company to comply with specified financial and non financial covenants including maintenance of minimum tangible net worth as well as limitations related to incurring liens, secured debt, and certain other financing arrangements. The Company is in compliance with these covenants as of June 30, 2010. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements In the normal course of business, the Company enters into contracts and commitments which obligate the Company to make payments in the future. The following table sets forth the Companys significant future obligations by time period. Purchases include commodity based contracts entered into in the normal course of business, which are further described in Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, energy related purchase contracts entered into in the normal course of business, and other purchase obligations related to the Companys normal business activities. The following table does not include unrecognized income tax benefits of $84 million as at June 30, 2010, due to uncertainty of the timing of deductibility. Where applicable, information included in the Companys consolidated financial statements and notes is cross referenced in this table. Payments Due by Period Contractual Item 8 Note Less than 1 3 3 5 More than Obligations Reference Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years (In millions) Purchases Inventories $ 9,949 $ 9,508 $ 417 $ 6 $ 18 Energy 498 284 137 31 46 Other 409 143 208 56 2 Total purchases 10,856 9,935 762 93 66 Short term debt 374 374 Long term debt Note 8 7,174 344 428 1,076 5,326 Estimated interest payments 7,928 381 700 636 6,211 Operating leases Note 13 1,381 235 371 333 442 Estimated pension and other postretirement plan contributions (1) Note 14 150 45 17 21 67 Total $ 27,863 $ 11,314 $ 2,278 $ 2,159 $ 12,112 (1) The Company is unable to estimate the amount of pension contributions beyond fiscal year 2011. For more information concerning the Companys pension and other postretirement plans, see Note 14 in Item 8. At June 30, 2010, the Company estimates it will spend approximately $1.5 billion through calendar year 2013 to complete currently approved capital projects which are not included in the table above. The Company also has outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds of $459 million at June 30, 2010. In addition, the Company has entered into agreements, primarily debt guarantee agreements related to equity method investees, which could obligate the Company to make future payments. The Companys liability under these agreements arises only if the primary entity fails to perform its contractual obligation. The Company has collateral for a portion of these contingent obligations. At June 30, 2010, these contingent obligations totaled approximately $131 million. Amounts outstanding for the primary entity under these contingent obligations were $74 million at June 30, 2010. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Critical Accounting Policies The process of preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the carrying values of the Companys assets and liabilities as well as the recognition of revenues and expenses. These estimates and judgments are based on the Companys historical experience and managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Certain of the Companys accounting policies are considered critical, as these policies are important to the depiction of the Companys financial statements and require significant or complex judgment by management. Management has discussed with the Companys Audit Committee the development, selection, disclosure, and application of these critical accounting policies. Following are the accounting policies management considers critical to the Companys financial statements. Inventories and Derivatives Certain of the Companys merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, forward fixed price purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts are valued at estimated market values. These merchandisable agricultural commodities are freely traded, have quoted market prices, and may be sold without significant additional processing. Management estimates market value based on exchange quoted prices, adjusted for differences in local markets. Changes in the market values of these inventories and contracts are recognized in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. If management used different methods or factors to estimate market value, amounts reported as inventories and cost of products sold coul d differ materially. Additionally, if market conditions change subsequent to year end, amounts reported in future periods as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. The Company, from time to time, uses derivative contracts designated as cash flow hedges to fix the purchase price of anticipated volumes of commodities to be purchased and processed in a future month, to fix the purchase price of the Companys anticipated natural gas requirements for certain production facilities, and to fix the sales price of anticipated volumes of ethanol. The change in the market value of such derivative contracts has historically been, and is expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold and net sales and other operating income in th e statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. If it is determined that the derivative instruments used are no longer effective at offsetting changes in the price of the hedged item, then the changes in the market value of these exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts would be recorded in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. Employee Benefit Plans The Company provides substantially all domestic employees and employees at certain international subsidiaries with pension benefits. Eligible domestic employees with five or more years of service prior to January 1, 2009 participate in a defined benefit pension plan. Eligible domestic employees hired on or after January 1, 2009 (and eligible salaried employees with less than five years of service prior to January 1, 2009) participate in a cash balance pension formula. The Company provides eligible domestic employees who retire under qualifying conditions with access to postretirement health care, at full cost to the retiree (certain employees are grandfather ed into subsidized coverage). In order to measure the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans, management makes several estimates and assumptions, including interest rates used to discount certain liabilities, rates of return on assets set aside to fund these plans, rates of compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and anticipated future health care costs. These estimates and assumptions are based on the Companys historical experience combined with managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Management also uses third party actuaries to assist in measuring the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans. If management used different estimates and assumptions regarding these plans, the funded status of the plans could vary significantly, and the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Income Taxes The Company frequently faces challenges from domestic and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company records reserves for estimates of potential additional tax owed by the Company. As an example, a subsidiary of the Company received a tax assessment in the amount of $456 million (subject to variation in currency exchange rates) consisting of tax, penalty, and interest from the Brazilian Federal Revenue Service challenging the deductibility of commodity hedging losses incurred by the Company in 2004. The Company evaluated its tax position rega rding these hedging transactions and concluded, based in part upon advice from Brazilian legal counsel, that it was appropriate to recognize the tax benefits of these deductions (See Note 12 in Item 8 for additional information). Deferred tax assets represent items to be used as tax deductions or credits in future tax returns, and the related tax benefit has already been recognized in the Companys income statement. The realization of the Companys deferred tax assets is dependent upon future taxable income in specific tax jurisdictions, the timing and amount of which are uncertain. The Company evaluates all available positive and negative evidence including estimated future reversals of existing temporary differences, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies, and recent financial results. Valuation allowances related to these deferred tax assets have been established to the extent the realization of the tax benefit is not likely. To the extent the Company were to favorably resolve matters for which accruals have been established or be required to pay amounts in excess of the aforementioned reserves, the Companys effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be impacted. Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and affiliated corporate joint ventures accounted for on the equity method are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned factors may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and cash flows of the Compa nys assets in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its factories. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment, technology, and companies related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. The Company evaluates goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives for impairment annually. Assets are written down after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these assets, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Valuation of Marketable Securities and Investments in Affiliates The Company classifies the majority of its marketable securities as available for sale and carries these securities at fair value. The Company applies the equity method for investments in investees over which the Company has the ability to exercise significant influence. These investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings and are adjusted, where appropriate, for amortizable basis differences between the investment balance and the underlying net assets of the investee. For publicly traded securities, the fair value of the Companys investments is readily available based on quoted market prices. For non publicly traded securities, managements assessment of fair value is based on valuation methodologies including discounted cash flows and estima tes of sales proceeds. In the event of a decline in fair value of an investment below carrying value, management is required to determine if the decline in fair value is other than temporary. In evaluating the nature of a decline in the fair value of an investment, management considers the market conditions, trends of earnings, discounted cash flows, trading volumes, and other key measures of the investment as well as the Companys ability and intent to hold the investment. When such a decline in value is deemed to be other than temporary, an impairment loss is recognized in the current period operating results to the extent of the decline. See Notes 5 and 6 in Item 8 for information regarding the Companys marketable securities and investments in affiliates. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these marketable securities, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in: commodity market prices as they relate to the Companys net commodity position, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and prices of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to factors such as changes in weather conditions, disease, plantings, government programs and policies, competition, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. To reduce price risk caused by market fluctuations, the Company generally follows a policy of using exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts to minimize its net position of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories and forward cash purchase and sales contracts. The Company will also use exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the volatility of the relationship between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contracts defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company, from time to time, enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold or net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) A sensitivity analysis has been prepared to estimate the Companys exposure to market risk of its daily net commodity position. The Companys daily net commodity position consists of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, related purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts, including those contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements. The fair value of such daily net commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing each net position at quoted futures prices. Market risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in such prices. Actual results may differ. 2010 2009 Long/(Short) Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest position $ 429 $ 43 $ 845 $ 85 Lowest position (667 ) (67 ) (1,342 ) (134 ) Average position (190 ) (19 ) (392 ) (39 ) The change in fair value of the average position for 2010 compared to 2009 was principally the result of changes in average quantities underlying the daily net commodity position. Currencies The Company conducts its business in over 60 countries. For the majority of the Companys subsidiaries located outside the United States, the local currency is the functional currency. In order to reduce the risks associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, except for amounts permanently invested as described below, the Company follows a policy of entering into currency exchange contracts to mitigate its foreign currency risk related to transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currencies applicable to each of its various entities, primarily the Euro, British pound, Canadian dollar, and Brazilian real. The instruments used are forward contracts, swaps with banks, exchange traded futures contracts, and over the counter options. The changes in marke t value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $6.4 billion at June 30, 2010, and $6.6 billion at June 30, 2009. This decrease is due to the depreciation of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar partially offset by an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The potential loss in fair value, which would principally be recognized in Other Comprehensive Income, resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $639 million and $664 million for 2010 and 2009, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical .5% decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2010 2009 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 7,700 $ 8,103 Excess of fair value over carrying value 870 511 Market risk 289 310 The decrease in fair value of long term debt in 2010 resulted principally from the repurchase of $500 million in aggregate principal amount of the Companys outstanding debentures. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Liquidity and Capital Resources A Company objective is to have sufficient liquidity, balance sheet strength, and financial flexibility to fund the operating and capital requirements of a capital intensive agricultural commodity based business. The primary source of funds to finance the Companys operations and capital expenditures is cash generated by operations. In addition, the Company maintains a commercial paper borrowing facility and has access to equity and debt capital from public and private sources in both domestic and international markets. At June 30, 2010, the Company had $1.4 billion of cash, cash equivalents, and short term marketable securities and a current ratio, defined as current assets divided by current liabilities, of 2.1 to 1. Included in working capital is $4.9 billion of readily marketable commodity inventories. Cash generated by operating activities decreased to $2.7 billion for the year compared to $5.3 billion last year due primarily to a $3.1 billion decrease in 2009 working capital requirements related to lower agricultural commodity market prices. Cash used in investing activities was $1.7 billion compared to $1.9 billion last year. Cash used in financing activities was $1.0 billion for the year compared to $3.2 billion last year due principally to a decrease in repayments of commercial paper borrowings part ially offset by the repurchase of $500 million of long term debt. At June 30, 2010, the Companys capital resources included net worth of $14.6 billion and lines of credit totaling $6.0 billion, of which $5.7 billion was unused. The Companys ratio of long term debt to total capital (the sum of the Companys long term debt and shareholders equity) was 32% at June 30, 2010 and 36% at June 30, 2009. This ratio is a measure of the Companys long term liquidity and is an indicator of financial flexibility. Of the Companys total lines of credit, $4.2 billion support a commercial paper borrowing facility, against which there were no borrowings at June 30, 2010. The Company has outstanding $1.15 billion principal amount of convertible senior notes. As of June 30, 2010, none of the conditions permitting conversion of these notes had been satisfied. The Company has purchased call options and warrants intended to reduce the potential shareholder dilution upon future conversion of the notes. As of June 30, 2010, the market price of the Companys common stock was not greater than the exercise price of the purchased call options or warrants related to the convertible senior notes. In June 2008, the Company issued $1.75 billion of debentures as a component of Equity Units (see Note 8 in Item 8). The debentures will be remarketed in 2011. The Equity Units are a combination of debt and forward contracts for the holder to purchase the Companys common stock. Each purchase contract obligates the holder to purchase from the Company, no later than June 1, 2011, for a price of $50 in cash, a certain number of shares, ranging from 1.0453 shares to 1.2544 shares, of the Companys common stock, based on a formula established in the contract. The Companys credit facilities and certain debentures require the Company to comply with specified financial and non financial covenants including maintenance of minimum tangible net worth as well as limitations related to incurring liens, secured debt, and certain other financing arrangements. The Company is in compliance with these covenants as of June 30, 2010. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements In the normal course of business, the Company enters into contracts and commitments which obligate the Company to make payments in the future. The following table sets forth the Companys significant future obligations by time period. Purchases include commodity based contracts entered into in the normal course of business, which are further described in Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, energy related purchase contracts entered into in the normal course of business, and other purchase obligations related to the Companys normal business activities. The following table does not include unrecognized income tax benefits of $84 million as at June 30, 2010, due to uncertainty of the timing of deductibility. Where applicable, information included in the Companys consolidated financial statements and notes is cross referenced in this table. Payments Due by Period Contractual Item 8 Note Less than 1 3 3 5 More than Obligations Reference Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years (In millions) Purchases Inventories $ 9,949 $ 9,508 $ 417 $ 6 $ 18 Energy 498 284 137 31 46 Other 409 143 208 56 2 Total purchases 10,856 9,935 762 93 66 Short term debt 374 374 Long term debt Note 8 7,174 344 428 1,076 5,326 Estimated interest payments 7,928 381 700 636 6,211 Operating leases Note 13 1,381 235 371 333 442 Estimated pension and other postretirement plan contributions (1) Note 14 150 45 17 21 67 Total $ 27,863 $ 11,314 $ 2,278 $ 2,159 $ 12,112 (1) The Company is unable to estimate the amount of pension contributions beyond fiscal year 2011. For more information concerning the Companys pension and other postretirement plans, see Note 14 in Item 8. At June 30, 2010, the Company estimates it will spend approximately $1.5 billion through calendar year 2013 to complete currently approved capital projects which are not included in the table above. The Company also has outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds of $459 million at June 30, 2010. In addition, the Company has entered into agreements, primarily debt guarantee agreements related to equity method investees, which could obligate the Company to make future payments. The Companys liability under these agreements arises only if the primary entity fails to perform its contractual obligation. The Company has collateral for a portion of these contingent obligations. At June 30, 2010, these contingent obligations totaled approximately $131 million. Amounts outstanding for the primary entity under these contingent obligations were $74 million at June 30, 2010. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Critical Accounting Policies The process of preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the carrying values of the Companys assets and liabilities as well as the recognition of revenues and expenses. These estimates and judgments are based on the Companys historical experience and managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Certain of the Companys accounting policies are considered critical, as these policies are important to the depiction of the Companys financial statements and require significant or complex judgment by management. Management has discussed with the Companys Audit Committee the development, selection, disclosure, and application of these critical accounting policies. Following are the accounting policies management considers critical to the Companys financial statements. Inventories and Derivatives Certain of the Companys merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, forward fixed price purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts are valued at estimated market values. These merchandisable agricultural commodities are freely traded, have quoted market prices, and may be sold without significant additional processing. Management estimates market value based on exchange quoted prices, adjusted for differences in local markets. Changes in the market values of these inventories and contracts are recognized in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. If management used different methods or factors to estimate market value, amounts reported as inventories and cost of products sold coul d differ materially. Additionally, if market conditions change subsequent to year end, amounts reported in future periods as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. The Company, from time to time, uses derivative contracts designated as cash flow hedges to fix the purchase price of anticipated volumes of commodities to be purchased and processed in a future month, to fix the purchase price of the Companys anticipated natural gas requirements for certain production facilities, and to fix the sales price of anticipated volumes of ethanol. The change in the market value of such derivative contracts has historically been, and is expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold and net sales and other operating income in th e statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. If it is determined that the derivative instruments used are no longer effective at offsetting changes in the price of the hedged item, then the changes in the market value of these exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts would be recorded in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. Employee Benefit Plans The Company provides substantially all domestic employees and employees at certain international subsidiaries with pension benefits. Eligible domestic employees with five or more years of service prior to January 1, 2009 participate in a defined benefit pension plan. Eligible domestic employees hired on or after January 1, 2009 (and eligible salaried employees with less than five years of service prior to January 1, 2009) participate in a cash balance pension formula. The Company provides eligible domestic employees who retire under qualifying conditions with access to postretirement health care, at full cost to the retiree (certain employees are grandfather ed into subsidized coverage). In order to measure the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans, management makes several estimates and assumptions, including interest rates used to discount certain liabilities, rates of return on assets set aside to fund these plans, rates of compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and anticipated future health care costs. These estimates and assumptions are based on the Companys historical experience combined with managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Management also uses third party actuaries to assist in measuring the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans. If management used different estimates and assumptions regarding these plans, the funded status of the plans could vary significantly, and the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Income Taxes The Company frequently faces challenges from domestic and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company records reserves for estimates of potential additional tax owed by the Company. As an example, a subsidiary of the Company received a tax assessment in the amount of $456 million (subject to variation in currency exchange rates) consisting of tax, penalty, and interest from the Brazilian Federal Revenue Service challenging the deductibility of commodity hedging losses incurred by the Company in 2004. The Company evaluated its tax position rega rding these hedging transactions and concluded, based in part upon advice from Brazilian legal counsel, that it was appropriate to recognize the tax benefits of these deductions (See Note 12 in Item 8 for additional information). Deferred tax assets represent items to be used as tax deductions or credits in future tax returns, and the related tax benefit has already been recognized in the Companys income statement. The realization of the Companys deferred tax assets is dependent upon future taxable income in specific tax jurisdictions, the timing and amount of which are uncertain. The Company evaluates all available positive and negative evidence including estimated future reversals of existing temporary differences, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies, and recent financial results. Valuation allowances related to these deferred tax assets have been established to the extent the realization of the tax benefit is not likely. To the extent the Company were to favorably resolve matters for which accruals have been established or be required to pay amounts in excess of the aforementioned reserves, the Companys effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be impacted. Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and affiliated corporate joint ventures accounted for on the equity method are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned factors may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and cash flows of the Compa nys assets in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its factories. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment, technology, and companies related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. The Company evaluates goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives for impairment annually. Assets are written down after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these assets, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Valuation of Marketable Securities and Investments in Affiliates The Company classifies the majority of its marketable securities as available for sale and carries these securities at fair value. The Company applies the equity method for investments in investees over which the Company has the ability to exercise significant influence. These investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings and are adjusted, where appropriate, for amortizable basis differences between the investment balance and the underlying net assets of the investee. For publicly traded securities, the fair value of the Companys investments is readily available based on quoted market prices. For non publicly traded securities, managements assessment of fair value is based on valuation methodologies including discounted cash flows and estima tes of sales proceeds. In the event of a decline in fair value of an investment below carrying value, management is required to determine if the decline in fair value is other than temporary. In evaluating the nature of a decline in the fair value of an investment, management considers the market conditions, trends of earnings, discounted cash flows, trading volumes, and other key measures of the investment as well as the Companys ability and intent to hold the investment. When such a decline in value is deemed to be other than temporary, an impairment loss is recognized in the current period operating results to the extent of the decline. See Notes 5 and 6 in Item 8 for information regarding the Companys marketable securities and investments in affiliates. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these marketable securities, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in: commodity market prices as they relate to the Companys net commodity position, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and prices of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to factors such as changes in weather conditions, disease, plantings, government programs and policies, competition, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. To reduce price risk caused by market fluctuations, the Company generally follows a policy of using exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts to minimize its net position of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories and forward cash purchase and sales contracts. The Company will also use exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the volatility of the relationship between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contracts defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company, from time to time, enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold or net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) A sensitivity analysis has been prepared to estimate the Companys exposure to market risk of its daily net commodity position. The Companys daily net commodity position consists of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, related purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts, including those contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements. The fair value of such daily net commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing each net position at quoted futures prices. Market risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in such prices. Actual results may differ. 2010 2009 Long/(Short) Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest position $ 429 $ 43 $ 845 $ 85 Lowest position (667 ) (67 ) (1,342 ) (134 ) Average position (190 ) (19 ) (392 ) (39 ) The change in fair value of the average position for 2010 compared to 2009 was principally the result of changes in average quantities underlying the daily net commodity position. Currencies The Company conducts its business in over 60 countries. For the majority of the Companys subsidiaries located outside the United States, the local currency is the functional currency. In order to reduce the risks associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, except for amounts permanently invested as described below, the Company follows a policy of entering into currency exchange contracts to mitigate its foreign currency risk related to transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currencies applicable to each of its various entities, primarily the Euro, British pound, Canadian dollar, and Brazilian real. The instruments used are forward contracts, swaps with banks, exchange traded futures contracts, and over the counter options. The changes in marke t value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $6.4 billion at June 30, 2010, and $6.6 billion at June 30, 2009. This decrease is due to the depreciation of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar partially offset by an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The potential loss in fair value, which would principally be recognized in Other Comprehensive Income, resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $639 million and $664 million for 2010 and 2009, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical .5% decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2010 2009 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 7,700 $ 8,103 Excess of fair value over carrying value 870 511 Market risk 289 310 The decrease in fair value of long term debt in 2010 resulted principally from the repurchase of $500 million in aggregate principal amount of the Companys outstanding debentures. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements In the normal course of business, the Company enters into contracts and commitments which obligate the Company to make payments in the future. The following table sets forth the Companys significant future obligations by time period. Purchases include commodity based contracts entered into in the normal course of business, which are further described in Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, energy related purchase contracts entered into in the normal course of business, and other purchase obligations related to the Companys normal business activities. The following table does not include unrecognized income tax benefits of $84 million as at June 30, 2010, due to uncertainty of the timing of deductibility. Where applicable, information included in the Companys consolidated financial statements and notes is cross referenced in this table. Payments Due by Period Contractual Item 8 Note Less than 1 3 3 5 More than Obligations Reference Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years (In millions) Purchases Inventories $ 9,949 $ 9,508 $ 417 $ 6 $ 18 Energy 498 284 137 31 46 Other 409 143 208 56 2 Total purchases 10,856 9,935 762 93 66 Short term debt 374 374 Long term debt Note 8 7,174 344 428 1,076 5,326 Estimated interest payments 7,928 381 700 636 6,211 Operating leases Note 13 1,381 235 371 333 442 Estimated pension and other postretirement plan contributions (1) Note 14 150 45 17 21 67 Total $ 27,863 $ 11,314 $ 2,278 $ 2,159 $ 12,112 (1) The Company is unable to estimate the amount of pension contributions beyond fiscal year 2011. For more information concerning the Companys pension and other postretirement plans, see Note 14 in Item 8. At June 30, 2010, the Company estimates it will spend approximately $1.5 billion through calendar year 2013 to complete currently approved capital projects which are not included in the table above. The Company also has outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds of $459 million at June 30, 2010. In addition, the Company has entered into agreements, primarily debt guarantee agreements related to equity method investees, which could obligate the Company to make future payments. The Companys liability under these agreements arises only if the primary entity fails to perform its contractual obligation. The Company has collateral for a portion of these contingent obligations. At June 30, 2010, these contingent obligations totaled approximately $131 million. Amounts outstanding for the primary entity under these contingent obligations were $74 million at June 30, 2010. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Critical Accounting Policies The process of preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the carrying values of the Companys assets and liabilities as well as the recognition of revenues and expenses. These estimates and judgments are based on the Companys historical experience and managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Certain of the Companys accounting policies are considered critical, as these policies are important to the depiction of the Companys financial statements and require significant or complex judgment by management. Management has discussed with the Companys Audit Committee the development, selection, disclosure, and application of these critical accounting policies. Following are the accounting policies management considers critical to the Companys financial statements. Inventories and Derivatives Certain of the Companys merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, forward fixed price purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts are valued at estimated market values. These merchandisable agricultural commodities are freely traded, have quoted market prices, and may be sold without significant additional processing. Management estimates market value based on exchange quoted prices, adjusted for differences in local markets. Changes in the market values of these inventories and contracts are recognized in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. If management used different methods or factors to estimate market value, amounts reported as inventories and cost of products sold coul d differ materially. Additionally, if market conditions change subsequent to year end, amounts reported in future periods as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. The Company, from time to time, uses derivative contracts designated as cash flow hedges to fix the purchase price of anticipated volumes of commodities to be purchased and processed in a future month, to fix the purchase price of the Companys anticipated natural gas requirements for certain production facilities, and to fix the sales price of anticipated volumes of ethanol. The change in the market value of such derivative contracts has historically been, and is expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold and net sales and other operating income in th e statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. If it is determined that the derivative instruments used are no longer effective at offsetting changes in the price of the hedged item, then the changes in the market value of these exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts would be recorded in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. Employee Benefit Plans The Company provides substantially all domestic employees and employees at certain international subsidiaries with pension benefits. Eligible domestic employees with five or more years of service prior to January 1, 2009 participate in a defined benefit pension plan. Eligible domestic employees hired on or after January 1, 2009 (and eligible salaried employees with less than five years of service prior to January 1, 2009) participate in a cash balance pension formula. The Company provides eligible domestic employees who retire under qualifying conditions with access to postretirement health care, at full cost to the retiree (certain employees are grandfather ed into subsidized coverage). In order to measure the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans, management makes several estimates and assumptions, including interest rates used to discount certain liabilities, rates of return on assets set aside to fund these plans, rates of compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and anticipated future health care costs. These estimates and assumptions are based on the Companys historical experience combined with managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Management also uses third party actuaries to assist in measuring the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans. If management used different estimates and assumptions regarding these plans, the funded status of the plans could vary significantly, and the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Income Taxes The Company frequently faces challenges from domestic and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company records reserves for estimates of potential additional tax owed by the Company. As an example, a subsidiary of the Company received a tax assessment in the amount of $456 million (subject to variation in currency exchange rates) consisting of tax, penalty, and interest from the Brazilian Federal Revenue Service challenging the deductibility of commodity hedging losses incurred by the Company in 2004. The Company evaluated its tax position rega rding these hedging transactions and concluded, based in part upon advice from Brazilian legal counsel, that it was appropriate to recognize the tax benefits of these deductions (See Note 12 in Item 8 for additional information). Deferred tax assets represent items to be used as tax deductions or credits in future tax returns, and the related tax benefit has already been recognized in the Companys income statement. The realization of the Companys deferred tax assets is dependent upon future taxable income in specific tax jurisdictions, the timing and amount of which are uncertain. The Company evaluates all available positive and negative evidence including estimated future reversals of existing temporary differences, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies, and recent financial results. Valuation allowances related to these deferred tax assets have been established to the extent the realization of the tax benefit is not likely. To the extent the Company were to favorably resolve matters for which accruals have been established or be required to pay amounts in excess of the aforementioned reserves, the Companys effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be impacted. Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and affiliated corporate joint ventures accounted for on the equity method are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned factors may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and cash flows of the Compa nys assets in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its factories. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment, technology, and companies related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. The Company evaluates goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives for impairment annually. Assets are written down after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these assets, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Valuation of Marketable Securities and Investments in Affiliates The Company classifies the majority of its marketable securities as available for sale and carries these securities at fair value. The Company applies the equity method for investments in investees over which the Company has the ability to exercise significant influence. These investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings and are adjusted, where appropriate, for amortizable basis differences between the investment balance and the underlying net assets of the investee. For publicly traded securities, the fair value of the Companys investments is readily available based on quoted market prices. For non publicly traded securities, managements assessment of fair value is based on valuation methodologies including discounted cash flows and estima tes of sales proceeds. In the event of a decline in fair value of an investment below carrying value, management is required to determine if the decline in fair value is other than temporary. In evaluating the nature of a decline in the fair value of an investment, management considers the market conditions, trends of earnings, discounted cash flows, trading volumes, and other key measures of the investment as well as the Companys ability and intent to hold the investment. When such a decline in value is deemed to be other than temporary, an impairment loss is recognized in the current period operating results to the extent of the decline. See Notes 5 and 6 in Item 8 for information regarding the Companys marketable securities and investments in affiliates. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these marketable securities, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in: commodity market prices as they relate to the Companys net commodity position, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and prices of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to factors such as changes in weather conditions, disease, plantings, government programs and policies, competition, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. To reduce price risk caused by market fluctuations, the Company generally follows a policy of using exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts to minimize its net position of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories and forward cash purchase and sales contracts. The Company will also use exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the volatility of the relationship between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contracts defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company, from time to time, enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold or net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) A sensitivity analysis has been prepared to estimate the Companys exposure to market risk of its daily net commodity position. The Companys daily net commodity position consists of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, related purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts, including those contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements. The fair value of such daily net commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing each net position at quoted futures prices. Market risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in such prices. Actual results may differ. 2010 2009 Long/(Short) Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest position $ 429 $ 43 $ 845 $ 85 Lowest position (667 ) (67 ) (1,342 ) (134 ) Average position (190 ) (19 ) (392 ) (39 ) The change in fair value of the average position for 2010 compared to 2009 was principally the result of changes in average quantities underlying the daily net commodity position. Currencies The Company conducts its business in over 60 countries. For the majority of the Companys subsidiaries located outside the United States, the local currency is the functional currency. In order to reduce the risks associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, except for amounts permanently invested as described below, the Company follows a policy of entering into currency exchange contracts to mitigate its foreign currency risk related to transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currencies applicable to each of its various entities, primarily the Euro, British pound, Canadian dollar, and Brazilian real. The instruments used are forward contracts, swaps with banks, exchange traded futures contracts, and over the counter options. The changes in marke t value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $6.4 billion at June 30, 2010, and $6.6 billion at June 30, 2009. This decrease is due to the depreciation of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar partially offset by an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The potential loss in fair value, which would principally be recognized in Other Comprehensive Income, resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $639 million and $664 million for 2010 and 2009, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical .5% decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2010 2009 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 7,700 $ 8,103 Excess of fair value over carrying value 870 511 Market risk 289 310 The decrease in fair value of long term debt in 2010 resulted principally from the repurchase of $500 million in aggregate principal amount of the Companys outstanding debentures. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Critical Accounting Policies The process of preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the carrying values of the Companys assets and liabilities as well as the recognition of revenues and expenses. These estimates and judgments are based on the Companys historical experience and managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Certain of the Companys accounting policies are considered critical, as these policies are important to the depiction of the Companys financial statements and require significant or complex judgment by management. Management has discussed with the Companys Audit Committee the development, selection, disclosure, and application of these critical accounting policies. Following are the accounting policies management considers critical to the Companys financial statements. Inventories and Derivatives Certain of the Companys merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, forward fixed price purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts are valued at estimated market values. These merchandisable agricultural commodities are freely traded, have quoted market prices, and may be sold without significant additional processing. Management estimates market value based on exchange quoted prices, adjusted for differences in local markets. Changes in the market values of these inventories and contracts are recognized in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. If management used different methods or factors to estimate market value, amounts reported as inventories and cost of products sold coul d differ materially. Additionally, if market conditions change subsequent to year end, amounts reported in future periods as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. The Company, from time to time, uses derivative contracts designated as cash flow hedges to fix the purchase price of anticipated volumes of commodities to be purchased and processed in a future month, to fix the purchase price of the Companys anticipated natural gas requirements for certain production facilities, and to fix the sales price of anticipated volumes of ethanol. The change in the market value of such derivative contracts has historically been, and is expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold and net sales and other operating income in th e statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. If it is determined that the derivative instruments used are no longer effective at offsetting changes in the price of the hedged item, then the changes in the market value of these exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts would be recorded in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. Employee Benefit Plans The Company provides substantially all domestic employees and employees at certain international subsidiaries with pension benefits. Eligible domestic employees with five or more years of service prior to January 1, 2009 participate in a defined benefit pension plan. Eligible domestic employees hired on or after January 1, 2009 (and eligible salaried employees with less than five years of service prior to January 1, 2009) participate in a cash balance pension formula. The Company provides eligible domestic employees who retire under qualifying conditions with access to postretirement health care, at full cost to the retiree (certain employees are grandfather ed into subsidized coverage). In order to measure the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans, management makes several estimates and assumptions, including interest rates used to discount certain liabilities, rates of return on assets set aside to fund these plans, rates of compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and anticipated future health care costs. These estimates and assumptions are based on the Companys historical experience combined with managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Management also uses third party actuaries to assist in measuring the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans. If management used different estimates and assumptions regarding these plans, the funded status of the plans could vary significantly, and the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Income Taxes The Company frequently faces challenges from domestic and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company records reserves for estimates of potential additional tax owed by the Company. As an example, a subsidiary of the Company received a tax assessment in the amount of $456 million (subject to variation in currency exchange rates) consisting of tax, penalty, and interest from the Brazilian Federal Revenue Service challenging the deductibility of commodity hedging losses incurred by the Company in 2004. The Company evaluated its tax position rega rding these hedging transactions and concluded, based in part upon advice from Brazilian legal counsel, that it was appropriate to recognize the tax benefits of these deductions (See Note 12 in Item 8 for additional information). Deferred tax assets represent items to be used as tax deductions or credits in future tax returns, and the related tax benefit has already been recognized in the Companys income statement. The realization of the Companys deferred tax assets is dependent upon future taxable income in specific tax jurisdictions, the timing and amount of which are uncertain. The Company evaluates all available positive and negative evidence including estimated future reversals of existing temporary differences, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies, and recent financial results. Valuation allowances related to these deferred tax assets have been established to the extent the realization of the tax benefit is not likely. To the extent the Company were to favorably resolve matters for which accruals have been established or be required to pay amounts in excess of the aforementioned reserves, the Companys effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be impacted. Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and affiliated corporate joint ventures accounted for on the equity method are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned factors may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and cash flows of the Compa nys assets in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its factories. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment, technology, and companies related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. The Company evaluates goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives for impairment annually. Assets are written down after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these assets, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Valuation of Marketable Securities and Investments in Affiliates The Company classifies the majority of its marketable securities as available for sale and carries these securities at fair value. The Company applies the equity method for investments in investees over which the Company has the ability to exercise significant influence. These investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings and are adjusted, where appropriate, for amortizable basis differences between the investment balance and the underlying net assets of the investee. For publicly traded securities, the fair value of the Companys investments is readily available based on quoted market prices. For non publicly traded securities, managements assessment of fair value is based on valuation methodologies including discounted cash flows and estima tes of sales proceeds. In the event of a decline in fair value of an investment below carrying value, management is required to determine if the decline in fair value is other than temporary. In evaluating the nature of a decline in the fair value of an investment, management considers the market conditions, trends of earnings, discounted cash flows, trading volumes, and other key measures of the investment as well as the Companys ability and intent to hold the investment. When such a decline in value is deemed to be other than temporary, an impairment loss is recognized in the current period operating results to the extent of the decline. See Notes 5 and 6 in Item 8 for information regarding the Companys marketable securities and investments in affiliates. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these marketable securities, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in: commodity market prices as they relate to the Companys net commodity position, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and prices of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to factors such as changes in weather conditions, disease, plantings, government programs and policies, competition, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. To reduce price risk caused by market fluctuations, the Company generally follows a policy of using exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts to minimize its net position of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories and forward cash purchase and sales contracts. The Company will also use exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the volatility of the relationship between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contracts defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company, from time to time, enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold or net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) A sensitivity analysis has been prepared to estimate the Companys exposure to market risk of its daily net commodity position. The Companys daily net commodity position consists of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, related purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts, including those contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements. The fair value of such daily net commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing each net position at quoted futures prices. Market risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in such prices. Actual results may differ. 2010 2009 Long/(Short) Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest position $ 429 $ 43 $ 845 $ 85 Lowest position (667 ) (67 ) (1,342 ) (134 ) Average position (190 ) (19 ) (392 ) (39 ) The change in fair value of the average position for 2010 compared to 2009 was principally the result of changes in average quantities underlying the daily net commodity position. Currencies The Company conducts its business in over 60 countries. For the majority of the Companys subsidiaries located outside the United States, the local currency is the functional currency. In order to reduce the risks associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, except for amounts permanently invested as described below, the Company follows a policy of entering into currency exchange contracts to mitigate its foreign currency risk related to transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currencies applicable to each of its various entities, primarily the Euro, British pound, Canadian dollar, and Brazilian real. The instruments used are forward contracts, swaps with banks, exchange traded futures contracts, and over the counter options. The changes in marke t value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $6.4 billion at June 30, 2010, and $6.6 billion at June 30, 2009. This decrease is due to the depreciation of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar partially offset by an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The potential loss in fair value, which would principally be recognized in Other Comprehensive Income, resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $639 million and $664 million for 2010 and 2009, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical .5% decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2010 2009 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 7,700 $ 8,103 Excess of fair value over carrying value 870 511 Market risk 289 310 The decrease in fair value of long term debt in 2010 resulted principally from the repurchase of $500 million in aggregate principal amount of the Companys outstanding debentures. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Income Taxes The Company frequently faces challenges from domestic and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company records reserves for estimates of potential additional tax owed by the Company. As an example, a subsidiary of the Company received a tax assessment in the amount of $456 million (subject to variation in currency exchange rates) consisting of tax, penalty, and interest from the Brazilian Federal Revenue Service challenging the deductibility of commodity hedging losses incurred by the Company in 2004. The Company evaluated its tax position rega rding these hedging transactions and concluded, based in part upon advice from Brazilian legal counsel, that it was appropriate to recognize the tax benefits of these deductions (See Note 12 in Item 8 for additional information). Deferred tax assets represent items to be used as tax deductions or credits in future tax returns, and the related tax benefit has already been recognized in the Companys income statement. The realization of the Companys deferred tax assets is dependent upon future taxable income in specific tax jurisdictions, the timing and amount of which are uncertain. The Company evaluates all available positive and negative evidence including estimated future reversals of existing temporary differences, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies, and recent financial results. Valuation allowances related to these deferred tax assets have been established to the extent the realization of the tax benefit is not likely. To the extent the Company were to favorably resolve matters for which accruals have been established or be required to pay amounts in excess of the aforementioned reserves, the Companys effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be impacted. Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and affiliated corporate joint ventures accounted for on the equity method are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned factors may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and cash flows of the Compa nys assets in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its factories. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment, technology, and companies related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. The Company evaluates goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives for impairment annually. Assets are written down after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these assets, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Valuation of Marketable Securities and Investments in Affiliates The Company classifies the majority of its marketable securities as available for sale and carries these securities at fair value. The Company applies the equity method for investments in investees over which the Company has the ability to exercise significant influence. These investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings and are adjusted, where appropriate, for amortizable basis differences between the investment balance and the underlying net assets of the investee. For publicly traded securities, the fair value of the Companys investments is readily available based on quoted market prices. For non publicly traded securities, managements assessment of fair value is based on valuation methodologies including discounted cash flows and estima tes of sales proceeds. In the event of a decline in fair value of an investment below carrying value, management is required to determine if the decline in fair value is other than temporary. In evaluating the nature of a decline in the fair value of an investment, management considers the market conditions, trends of earnings, discounted cash flows, trading volumes, and other key measures of the investment as well as the Companys ability and intent to hold the investment. When such a decline in value is deemed to be other than temporary, an impairment loss is recognized in the current period operating results to the extent of the decline. See Notes 5 and 6 in Item 8 for information regarding the Companys marketable securities and investments in affiliates. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these marketable securities, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in: commodity market prices as they relate to the Companys net commodity position, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and prices of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to factors such as changes in weather conditions, disease, plantings, government programs and policies, competition, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. To reduce price risk caused by market fluctuations, the Company generally follows a policy of using exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts to minimize its net position of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories and forward cash purchase and sales contracts. The Company will also use exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the volatility of the relationship between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contracts defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company, from time to time, enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold or net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) A sensitivity analysis has been prepared to estimate the Companys exposure to market risk of its daily net commodity position. The Companys daily net commodity position consists of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, related purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts, including those contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements. The fair value of such daily net commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing each net position at quoted futures prices. Market risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in such prices. Actual results may differ. 2010 2009 Long/(Short) Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest position $ 429 $ 43 $ 845 $ 85 Lowest position (667 ) (67 ) (1,342 ) (134 ) Average position (190 ) (19 ) (392 ) (39 ) The change in fair value of the average position for 2010 compared to 2009 was principally the result of changes in average quantities underlying the daily net commodity position. Currencies The Company conducts its business in over 60 countries. For the majority of the Companys subsidiaries located outside the United States, the local currency is the functional currency. In order to reduce the risks associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, except for amounts permanently invested as described below, the Company follows a policy of entering into currency exchange contracts to mitigate its foreign currency risk related to transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currencies applicable to each of its various entities, primarily the Euro, British pound, Canadian dollar, and Brazilian real. The instruments used are forward contracts, swaps with banks, exchange traded futures contracts, and over the counter options. The changes in marke t value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $6.4 billion at June 30, 2010, and $6.6 billion at June 30, 2009. This decrease is due to the depreciation of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar partially offset by an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The potential loss in fair value, which would principally be recognized in Other Comprehensive Income, resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $639 million and $664 million for 2010 and 2009, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical .5% decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2010 2009 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 7,700 $ 8,103 Excess of fair value over carrying value 870 511 Market risk 289 310 The decrease in fair value of long term debt in 2010 resulted principally from the repurchase of $500 million in aggregate principal amount of the Companys outstanding debentures. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Valuation of Marketable Securities and Investments in Affiliates The Company classifies the majority of its marketable securities as available for sale and carries these securities at fair value. The Company applies the equity method for investments in investees over which the Company has the ability to exercise significant influence. These investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings and are adjusted, where appropriate, for amortizable basis differences between the investment balance and the underlying net assets of the investee. For publicly traded securities, the fair value of the Companys investments is readily available based on quoted market prices. For non publicly traded securities, managements assessment of fair value is based on valuation methodologies including discounted cash flows and estima tes of sales proceeds. In the event of a decline in fair value of an investment below carrying value, management is required to determine if the decline in fair value is other than temporary. In evaluating the nature of a decline in the fair value of an investment, management considers the market conditions, trends of earnings, discounted cash flows, trading volumes, and other key measures of the investment as well as the Companys ability and intent to hold the investment. When such a decline in value is deemed to be other than temporary, an impairment loss is recognized in the current period operating results to the extent of the decline. See Notes 5 and 6 in Item 8 for information regarding the Companys marketable securities and investments in affiliates. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these marketable securities, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in: commodity market prices as they relate to the Companys net commodity position, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and prices of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to factors such as changes in weather conditions, disease, plantings, government programs and policies, competition, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. To reduce price risk caused by market fluctuations, the Company generally follows a policy of using exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts to minimize its net position of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories and forward cash purchase and sales contracts. The Company will also use exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the volatility of the relationship between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contracts defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company, from time to time, enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold or net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) A sensitivity analysis has been prepared to estimate the Companys exposure to market risk of its daily net commodity position. The Companys daily net commodity position consists of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, related purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts, including those contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements. The fair value of such daily net commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing each net position at quoted futures prices. Market risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in such prices. Actual results may differ. 2010 2009 Long/(Short) Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest position $ 429 $ 43 $ 845 $ 85 Lowest position (667 ) (67 ) (1,342 ) (134 ) Average position (190 ) (19 ) (392 ) (39 ) The change in fair value of the average position for 2010 compared to 2009 was principally the result of changes in average quantities underlying the daily net commodity position. Currencies The Company conducts its business in over 60 countries. For the majority of the Companys subsidiaries located outside the United States, the local currency is the functional currency. In order to reduce the risks associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, except for amounts permanently invested as described below, the Company follows a policy of entering into currency exchange contracts to mitigate its foreign currency risk related to transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currencies applicable to each of its various entities, primarily the Euro, British pound, Canadian dollar, and Brazilian real. The instruments used are forward contracts, swaps with banks, exchange traded futures contracts, and over the counter options. The changes in marke t value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $6.4 billion at June 30, 2010, and $6.6 billion at June 30, 2009. This decrease is due to the depreciation of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar partially offset by an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The potential loss in fair value, which would principally be recognized in Other Comprehensive Income, resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $639 million and $664 million for 2010 and 2009, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical .5% decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2010 2009 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 7,700 $ 8,103 Excess of fair value over carrying value 870 511 Market risk 289 310 The decrease in fair value of long term debt in 2010 resulted principally from the repurchase of $500 million in aggregate principal amount of the Companys outstanding debentures. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Company Overview The Company is principally engaged in procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. The Companys operations are classified into three reportable business segments: Oilseeds Processing, Corn Processing and Agricultural Services. Each of these segments is organized based upon the nature of products and services offered. The Companys remaining operations, which include wheat processing, cocoa processing, and its financial business units, are not reportable segments, as defined by the applicable accounting standard, and are classified as Other. The Oilseeds Processing segment includes activities related to the origination, merchandising, crushing, and further processing of oilseeds such as soybeans, cottonseed, sunflower seeds, canola, rapeseed, peanuts, flaxseed, and palm into vegetable oils and protein meals. The Oilseeds Processing segment principally produces and markets processed oilseed products as ingredients for the food, feed, energy, and other industrial products industries. Crude vegetable oil is sold "as is" or is further processed by refining, blending, bleaching, and deodorizing into salad oils. Salad oils are sold as is or are further processed by hydrogenating and or interesterifying into margarine, shortening, and other food products. Partially refined oil is used to produce biodiesel or is sold to other manufact urers for use in chemicals, paints, and other industrial products. Oilseed protein meals are principally sold to third parties to be used as ingredients in commercial livestock and poultry feeds. The Oilseeds Processing segment also produces natural health and nutrition products and other specialty food and feed ingredients. In North America, cottonseed flour is produced and sold primarily to the pharmaceutical industry and cotton cellulose pulp is manufactured and sold to the chemical, paper, and filter markets. In South America, the Oilseeds Processing segment utilizes a network of grain elevators, port facilities and transportation assets to buy, store, clean, and transport agricultural commodities and operates fertilizer blending facilities. This segment also includes the Companys share of the results of its equity method investment in Wilmar and its Golden Peanut Company LLC, Edible Oils Limited, and Stratas Foods LLC joint ventures. The Companys Corn Processing segment is engaged in corn wet milling and dry milling activities, primarily in the United States, related to its production of ingredients used in the food and beverage industry including syrup, starch, glucose, dextrose, and sweeteners. Dextrose is also used by the Company as a feedstock for its bioproducts operations. Corn gluten feed and meal, as well as distillers grains, is produced for use as animal feed ingredients. Corn germ, a by product of the wet milling process, is further processed as an oilseed into vegetable oil and protein meal. By fermentation of dextrose, the Corn Processing segment produces alcohol, amino acids, and other specialty food and animal feed ingredients. Ethyl alcohol is produced by the Company to beverage grade or for industrial use as ethanol. In gasoline, ethanol increases octane and is used as an extender and oxygenate. Amino acids, such as lysine and threonine, are vital compounds used in swine feeds to produce leaner animals and in poultry feeds to enhance the speed and efficiency of poultry production. The Corn Processing segment also produces, by fermentation, astaxanthin, a product used in aquaculture to enhance flesh coloration. The Corn Processing segment produces citric and lactic acids, lactates, sorbitol, xanthan gum and glycols which are used in various food and industrial prod ucts. The Corn Processing segment includes the activities of the Companys Brazilian sugarcane operations, propylene and ethylene glycol facility, and investments in renewable plastics. This segment also includes the Companys share of the results of its equity method investments in Almidones Mexicanos S.A., Eaststarch C.V., and Red Star Yeast Company LLC. The Agricultural Services segment utilizes the Companys extensive grain elevator and transportation network to buy, store, clean, and transport agricultural commodities, such as oilseeds, corn, wheat, milo, oats, rice, and barley, and resells these commodities primarily as food and feed ingredients and as raw materials for the agricultural processing industry. Agricultural Services grain sourcing and transportation network provides reliable and efficient services to the Companys agricultural processing operations and customers. Agricultural Services transportation network capabilities include ground, rail, river, and ocean freight services. The Agricultural Services segment also includes activities r elated to procuring, processing, and distributing edible beans, and the processing and distributing of formula feeds and animal health and nutrition products. In addition, the Agricultural Services segment includes the activities of Alfred C. Toepfer International, a global merchant of agricultural commodities and processed products, and the Companys share of the results of its Kalama Export Company joint venture. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Other includes the Companys remaining processing operations, consisting of activities related to processing agricultural commodities into food ingredient products such as wheat into wheat flour and cocoa into chocolate and cocoa products. Other also includes financial activities related to banking, captive insurance, private equity fund investments, futures commission merchant activities, and the Companys share of the results of its equity method investment in Gruma S.A.B. de C.V. Certain Corporate items are not allocated to the Companys reportable business segments. Corporate results include the impact of LIFO related adjustments, the after tax elimination of income attributable to mandatorily redeemable interests in consolidated subsidiaries, unallocated corporate expenses, and unallocated net interest costs. Operating Performance Indicators The Companys Oilseeds Processing, Agricultural Services, and wheat processing operations are principally agricultural commodity based businesses where changes in selling prices move in relationship to changes in prices of the commodity based agricultural raw materials. Thus, changes in agricultural commodity prices have relatively equal impacts on both sales revenue and cost of products sold. Therefore, changes in gross profit of these businesses do not necessarily correspond to the changes in net sales and other operating income amounts. The Companys Corn Processing operations and certain other food and animal feed processing operations also utilize agricultural commodities (or products derived from agricultural commodities) as raw materials. In these operations, agricultural commodity market price changes can result in significant fluctuations in cost of products sold, and such price changes cannot necessarily be passed directly through to the selling price of the finished products. The Company conducts its business in over 60 countries. For the majority of the Companys subsidiaries located outside the United States the local currency is the functional currency. Revenues and expenses denominated in foreign currencies are translated into U.S. dollars at the weighted average exchange rates for the applicable periods. For the majority of the Companys business activities in Brazil, the functional currency is the U.S. dollar, however certain transactions, including taxes, occur in local currency and require conversion to the functional currency. The impact of these currency exchange rate changes, where significant, is discussed in Item 7A. Fluctuations in the exchange rates of foreign currencies, primarily the Euro, British pound, Canadian dollar and Brazilian r eal, as compared to the U.S. dollar will result in corresponding fluctuations in the U.S. dollar value of revenues and expenses reported by the Company. The Company measures the performance of its business segments using key operating statistics such as segment operating profit, return on fixed capital investment, return on invested capital, and return on equity. The Companys operating results can vary significantly due to changes in factors such as fluctuations in energy prices, weather conditions, crop plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth, general global economic conditions, changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. Due to these unpredictable factors, the Company does not provide forward looking information in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) 2010 Compared to 2009 As an agricultural commodity based business, the Company is subject to a variety of market factors which affect the Companys operating results. Market expectations throughout most of fiscal 2010 for fewer global crop supply and demand imbalances, coupled with continuing uncertainty about short term demand, led to generally lower and less volatile agricultural commodity market prices and conditions. In addition, the late, extended U.S. harvest reduced profit opportunities. North American oilseed exports and domestic crushing volumes were enhanced by the poor supply of 2009 crop year soybeans in South America. Increased government mandates for the use of biodiesel in South America and Europe resulted in increased biodiesel demand and helped keep overall demand for refined and crude vegetable oil steady in these regions. However, in North America, demand for vegetable oils remained weak due to low consumption of oils in the food service and biodiesel industries, in part due to the expiration of the biodiesel blending credit in the U.S. on January 1, 2010. Soybean protein meal demand improved, particularly in Asia. Market prices for corn decreased resulting in lower raw material costs for Corn Processing and decreased average selling prices for sweeteners and starches. Lower energy, fuel and chemical costs per unit positively impacted the Companys manufacturing costs. More favorable ethanol blending economics together with increased ethanol merchandising activity resulted in increased demand, higher ethanol sales volumes, and improved margins. Earnings before income taxes for 2010 include a credit of $42 million from the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations, compared to a credit of $517 million in 2009. Income taxes decreased $146 million due to a lower effective income tax rate, partially offset by higher pretax earnings. Income taxes for 2009 included a $158 million charge resulting from the restructuring of a holding company in which the Company holds a portion of its equity investment in Wilmar. Analysis of Statements of Earnings Net sales and other operating income by segment are as follows: 2010 2009 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing & Origination $ 15,732 $ 15,579 $ 153 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel & Other 7,136 8,760 (1,624 ) Asia 190 179 11 Total Oilseeds Processing 23,058 24,518 (1,460 ) Corn Processing Sweeteners & Starches 3,333 3,785 (452 ) Bioproducts 4,609 3,938 671 Total Corn Processing 7,942 7,723 219 Agricultural Services Merchandising & Handling 25,273 31,342 (6,069 ) Transportation 167 242 (75 ) Total Agricultural Services 25,440 31,584 (6,144 ) Other Wheat, Cocoa & Malt 5,147 5,272 (125 ) Financial 95 110 (15 ) Total Other 5,242 5,382 (140 ) Total $ 61,682 $ 69,207 $ (7,525 ) Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Net sales and other operating income decreased 11% to $61.7 billion due principally to lower average selling prices in line with year over year declines in underlying commodity costs. Oilseeds Processing sales decreased 6% to $23.1 billion, due principally to lower average selling prices for soybeans, protein meal, refined oil, and biodiesel partially offset by increased sales volumes of soybeans and fertilizer. Corn Processing sales increased 3% to $7.9 billion primarily as a result of increased sales volumes of ethanol and lysine partially offset by lower average selling prices of ethanol, sweeteners, and starches. Agricultural Services sales decreased 19% to $25.4 billion, due to lower average selling prices, in line with year over year declines in underlying commodity prices, and lower sales volumes . Other sales decreased 3% to $5.2 billion, primarily due to lower average selling prices of wheat flour partially offset by increased wheat flour sales volumes and higher average selling prices and sales volumes for cocoa products. Cost of products sold decreased 11% to $57.8 billion, due principally to decreased agricultural commodity costs including the impact of changes in LIFO inventory valuations which reduced cost of products sold by $42 million in 2010 compared to $517 million in 2009. Manufacturing expenses decreased 1% or $60 million, primarily due to lower energy, chemical and fuel costs partially offset by higher employee related costs and a $124 million increase in depreciation and amortization expense. In 2010, manufacturing expenses included additional costs associated with the Companys new greenfield plants. Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased 1% to $1.4 billion, due principally to decreased provisions for doubtful accounts partially offset by increased expenses for legal, professional, and commercial services. Other (income) expense net improved $317 million primarily due to increased equity earnings of unconsolidated affiliates of $416 million, and decreased expense for the elimination of after tax mandatorily redeemable interests in consolidated subsidiaries. These increases were partially offset by pre tax charges of $75 million related to the early extinguishment of debt and $59 million for unrealized losses on interest rate swaps (for more information see Note 8 in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data). Equity earnings of unconsolidated affiliates in 2009 included a non cash charge of $275 million related to currency derivative losses of the Companys equity investee, Gruma S.A.B. de C.V. Income taxes decreased $146 million due to a lower effective income tax rate partially offset by higher pretax earnings. The Companys effective income tax rate during 2010 was 25.8%. In 2009, the effective income tax rate was 32.5% which included $158 million of income tax charges related to the partial restructuring of the holding company structure through which the Company holds a portion of its equity investment in Wilmar. Excluding these Wilmar charges, the Companys effective income tax rate for 2009 was 26.2%. For more information concerning Wilmar tax matters see Note 12 in Item 8. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Operating profit by segment is as follows: 2010 2009 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing & Origination $ 818 $ 767 $ 51 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel & Other 291 265 26 Asia 291 248 43 Total Oilseeds Processing 1,400 1,280 120 Corn Processing Sweeteners & Starches 529 500 29 Bioproducts 193 (315 ) 508 Total Corn Processing 722 185 537 Agricultural Services Merchandising & Handling 583 832 (249 ) Transportation 85 162 (77 ) Total Agricultural Services 668 994 (326 ) Other Wheat, Cocoa & Malt 403 51 352 Financial 46 (57 ) 103 Total Other 449 (6 ) 455 Total Segment Operating Profit 3,239 2,453 786 Corporate (see below) (654 ) 47 (701 ) Earnings Before Income Taxes $ 2,585 $ 2,500 $ 85 Corporate results are as follows: 2010 2009 Change (In millions) LIFO credit $ 42 $ 517 $ (475 ) Unallocated interest expense net (283 ) (192 ) (91 ) Unallocated corporate costs (266 ) (252 ) (14 ) Charges on early extinguishment of debt (75 ) (75 ) Unrealized losses on interest rate swaps (59 ) (59 ) Other (13 ) (26 ) 13 Total Corporate $ (654 ) $ 47 $ (701 ) Oilseeds Processing operating profit increased 9% to $1.4 billion. Crushing and origination results increased $51 million due to higher North American soybean crushing margins and favorable soft seed commodity positioning partially offset by lower soybean crushing margins in Europe and South America. Refining, packaging, biodiesel and other operating profit increased $26 million due primarily to higher South American biodiesel results and improved margins in Europe. Oilseeds processing results in Asia increased $43 million to $291 million due principally to improved equity earnings of Wilmar. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Corn Processing operating profit increased $537 million to $722 million. Bioproducts operating profit increased $508 million due to improved ethanol and lysine sales volumes and improved ethanol margins resulting from lower net corn costs and decreased manufacturing costs. Ethanol sales volumes increased due to favorable gasoline blending economics and increased merchandising activity. Sweeteners and starches operating profit increased $29 million due to lower net corn and manufacturing costs due principally to lower energy and chemical prices. These lower manufacturing costs were partially offset by lower average selling prices. Agricultural Services operating profit decreased $326 million to $668 million. Merchandising and handling results decreased $249 million. Enhanced volume and margin opportunities created by last years volatile commodity markets and tight credit markets did not recur. Volumes and margins in 2010 benefited from strong demand for U.S. soybean exports following the short South American 2009 crop. Transportation results decreased $77 million due to lower barge freight rates and decreased barge utilization levels resulting from weaker U.S. economic conditions and the late, extended North American harvest. Other operating profit increased $455 million to $449 million. Wheat, cocoa and malt operating profit increased $352 million due to improved equity earnings from the Companys investment in Gruma, improved wheat milling margins, and improved cocoa processing results. Financial operating profit increased $103 million due primarily to the absence of losses experienced last year from managed fund investments and captive insurance operations. Corporate results decreased $701 million. The effects of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations resulted in a credit of $42 million for the year ended June 30, 2010, compared to a credit of $517 million for the year ended June 30, 2009. Unallocated interest expense net increased $91 million reflecting a reduction in corporate interest income caused by lower short term interest rates and lower working capital requirements of the operating segments. In January 2010, the Company repurchased $500 million of long term debt which generated a $75 million pretax charge on early extinguishment of debt. In connection with a debt remarketing planned for 2011, the Company entered into interest rate swaps to fix the interest rate on a portion of the planned remarketing which result ed in $59 million of unrealized losses on interest rate swaps. 2009 Compared to 2008 As an agricultural commodity based business, the Company is subject to a variety of market factors which affect the Companys operating results. Net corn costs increased significantly in 2009 compared to 2008, negatively impacting ethanol margins, and, to a lesser extent, sweeteners and starches margins as the higher net corn costs were only partially offset by increased selling prices for sweeteners and starches. Additionally, lower demand for gasoline, decreased gasoline prices and excess ethanol industry capacity negatively impacted ethanol margins. Demand for agricultural commodities, freight, and other products was weaker during 2009 in line with the downturn in the global economy. Results were negatively impacted by decreased equity earnings in unconsolidated affiliates including significant non cash charges related to currency derivative losses incurred by the Companys equity investee, Gruma S.A.B. de C.V., and losses from the Companys managed fund investments. Earnings before income taxes for 2009 include a credit of $517 million from the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuation reserves, compared to a charge of $569 million in 2008. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Income taxes for 2009 include charges of $158 million resulting from the restructuring of a holding company in which the Company holds a portion of its equity investment in Wilmar. Analysis of Statements of Earnings Net sales and other operating income decreased 1% to $69.2 billion due to foreign exchange translation impacts and decreased sales volumes partially offset by higher average selling prices. Net sales and other operating income increased $3.0 billion due to higher average selling prices primarily related to higher underlying commodity costs, decreased $2.0 billion due to foreign exchange translation impacts, and decreased $1.6 billion due to lower sales volumes and other. Net sales and other operating income by segment are as follows: 2009 2008 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing & Origination $ 15,579 $ 14,477 $ 1,102 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel & Other 8,760 8,588 172 Asia 179 214 (35 ) Total Oilseeds Processing 24,518 23,279 1,239 Corn Processing Sweeteners & Starches 3,785 3,546 239 Bioproducts 3,938 3,591 347 Total Corn Processing 7,723 7,137 586 Agricultural Services Merchandising & Handling 31,342 33,749 (2,407 ) Transportation 242 219 23 Total Agricultural Services 31,584 33,968 (2,384 ) Other Wheat, Cocoa & Malt 5,272 5,335 (63 ) Financial 110 97 13 Total Other 5,382 5,432 (50 ) Total $ 69,207 $ 69,816 $ (609 ) Oilseeds Processing sales increased 5% to $24.5 billion due principally to increased sales volumes of merchandised oilseeds and biodiesel partially offset by lower sales volumes of vegetable oil and protein meal. Corn Processing sales increased 8% to $7.7 billion due principally to higher sales volumes of ethanol and higher average selling prices of sweeteners and starches, partially offset by lower average selling prices of ethanol. Agricultural Services sales decreased 7% to $31.6 billion due principally to lower sales volumes of grain. Other sales decreased 1% to $5.4 billion primarily due to the sale of the Companys malting business during the first quarter of fiscal year 2009 and lower average selling prices of wheat flour. Partially offsetting these decreases were higher average selling prices of cocoa products and increased chocolate sales volumes. Cost of products sold decreased 1% to $65.1 billion, in line with the decrease in net sales and other operating income. Cost of products sold decreased $856 million due principally to decreased sales volumes, decreased LIFO inventory valuations and approximately $1.9 billion from the impact of foreign currency translation, partially offset by increased agricultural commodity costs. Manufacturing expenses decreased $215 million primarily due to decreased energy and fuel costs. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Selling, general and administrative expenses of $1.4 billion were comparable to 2008. Decreased employee related costs and favorable impacts from foreign currency translation were offset by increases in provisions for doubtful accounts. Other (income) expense net decreased $348 million primarily due to decreased results from equity earnings of unconsolidated affiliates of $270 million, and decreased investment income. Equity earnings in unconsolidated affiliates included a non cash charge of $275 million of foreign exchange derivative losses incurred by the Companys equity investee, Gruma S.A.B. de C.V. Operating profit by segment is as follows: 2009 2008 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing & Origination $ 767 $ 727 $ 40 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel & Other 265 181 84 Asia 248 132 116 Total Oilseeds Processing 1,280 1,040 240 Corn Processing Sweeteners & Starches 500 557 (57 ) Bioproducts (315 ) 404 (719 ) Total Corn Processing 185 961 (776 ) Agricultural Services Merchandising & Handling 832 873 (41 ) Transportation 162 144 18 Total Agricultural Services 994 1,017 (23 ) Other Wheat, Cocoa & Malt 51 217 (166 ) Financial (57 ) 206 (263 ) Total Other (6 ) 423 (429 ) Total Segment Operating Profit 2,453 3,441 (988 ) Corporate (see below) 47 (847 ) 894 Earnings Before Income Taxes $ 2,500 $ 2,594 $ (94 ) Corporate results are as follows: 2009 2008 Change (In millions) LIFO credit (charge) $ 517 $ (569 ) $ 1,086 Interest expense (income) net (192 ) 49 (241 ) Corporate costs (252 ) (262 ) 10 Other (26 ) (65 ) 39 Total Corporate $ 47 $ (847 ) $ 894 Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Oilseeds Processing operating profit increased 23% to $1.3 billion. Crushing and origination results increased $40 million. Improved global crushing margins were partially offset by lower fertilizer sales volumes and margins and lower North American crushing volumes due to decreased demand for vegetable oil and protein meal. Refining, packaging, biodiesel and other results increased $84 million due principally to higher biodiesel sales volumes in South America and increased average margins for value added products. 2008 results for refining, packaging, biodiesel and other included asset abandonment charges of $27 million. Asia results increased $116 million due principally to the Companys share in improved operating results of Wilmar. Corn Processing operating profits decreased 81% to $185 million. Sweeteners and starches decreased $57 million due to the impact of higher net corn costs partially offset by higher average sweetener and starches selling prices. Bioproducts operating profit decreased $719 million for the year as ethanol and lysine margins declined significantly due to higher corn costs and lower average selling prices. Ethanol margins were also impacted by lower demand for gasoline, decreased gasoline prices, and excess ethanol industry capacity. Agricultural Services operating profits decreased 2% to $994 million. Merchandising and handling profit decreased $41 million. Merchandising margins moderated as demand for commodities slowed following the downturn in the global economy. Transportation results increased $18 million due to higher barge freight rates. Other operating profits decreased 101% to a loss of $6 million. Wheat, cocoa, and malt processing operating profit decreased $166 million for the year primarily due to equity losses from the Companys investment in Gruma, partially offset by improved cocoa and wheat processing margins. Financial operating profit decreased $263 million due to losses on managed fund investments compared to gains for the year ended June 30, 2008, increased captive insurance loss provisions and decreased interest income and lower marketable security gains of the Companys brokerage service business. Corporate results increased $894 million to $47 million, primarily due to the effects of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations which resulted in credits of $517 million for the year ended June 30, 2009, compared to $569 million of LIFO charges for the year ended June 30, 2008. Unallocated interest expense increased $241 million primarily due to higher long term debt interest expense and decreased interest income. Corporate interest income decreased due to lower short term interest rates and lower working capital requirements of the operating segments. The Companys effective tax rate during 2009 was 32.5% compared to 31.1% during 2008. Income taxes increased $4 million. Lower pre tax earnings and positive impacts from favorable changes in geographic mix of earnings, currency translation impacts in South America, lower tax rates in certain foreign jurisdictions, and return to provision adjustments, were offset by charges of $158 million resulting from the restructuring of a holding company in which the Company holds a portion of its equity investment in Wilmar. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Liquidity and Capital Resources A Company objective is to have sufficient liquidity, balance sheet strength, and financial flexibility to fund the operating and capital requirements of a capital intensive agricultural commodity based business. The primary source of funds to finance the Companys operations and capital expenditures is cash generated by operations. In addition, the Company maintains a commercial paper borrowing facility and has access to equity and debt capital from public and private sources in both domestic and international markets. At June 30, 2010, the Company had $1.4 billion of cash, cash equivalents, and short term marketable securities and a current ratio, defined as current assets divided by current liabilities, of 2.1 to 1. Included in working capital is $4.9 billion of readily marketable commodity inventories. Cash generated by operating activities decreased to $2.7 billion for the year compared to $5.3 billion last year due primarily to a $3.1 billion decrease in 2009 working capital requirements related to lower agricultural commodity market prices. Cash used in investing activities was $1.7 billion compared to $1.9 billion last year. Cash used in financing activities was $1.0 billion for the year compared to $3.2 billion last year due principally to a decrease in repayments of commercial paper borrowings part ially offset by the repurchase of $500 million of long term debt. At June 30, 2010, the Companys capital resources included net worth of $14.6 billion and lines of credit totaling $6.0 billion, of which $5.7 billion was unused. The Companys ratio of long term debt to total capital (the sum of the Companys long term debt and shareholders equity) was 32% at June 30, 2010 and 36% at June 30, 2009. This ratio is a measure of the Companys long term liquidity and is an indicator of financial flexibility. Of the Companys total lines of credit, $4.2 billion support a commercial paper borrowing facility, against which there were no borrowings at June 30, 2010. The Company has outstanding $1.15 billion principal amount of convertible senior notes. As of June 30, 2010, none of the conditions permitting conversion of these notes had been satisfied. The Company has purchased call options and warrants intended to reduce the potential shareholder dilution upon future conversion of the notes. As of June 30, 2010, the market price of the Companys common stock was not greater than the exercise price of the purchased call options or warrants related to the convertible senior notes. In June 2008, the Company issued $1.75 billion of debentures as a component of Equity Units (see Note 8 in Item 8). The debentures will be remarketed in 2011. The Equity Units are a combination of debt and forward contracts for the holder to purchase the Companys common stock. Each purchase contract obligates the holder to purchase from the Company, no later than June 1, 2011, for a price of $50 in cash, a certain number of shares, ranging from 1.0453 shares to 1.2544 shares, of the Companys common stock, based on a formula established in the contract. The Companys credit facilities and certain debentures require the Company to comply with specified financial and non financial covenants including maintenance of minimum tangible net worth as well as limitations related to incurring liens, secured debt, and certain other financing arrangements. The Company is in compliance with these covenants as of June 30, 2010. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements In the normal course of business, the Company enters into contracts and commitments which obligate the Company to make payments in the future. The following table sets forth the Companys significant future obligations by time period. Purchases include commodity based contracts entered into in the normal course of business, which are further described in Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, energy related purchase contracts entered into in the normal course of business, and other purchase obligations related to the Companys normal business activities. The following table does not include unrecognized income tax benefits of $84 million as at June 30, 2010, due to uncertainty of the timing of deductibility. Where applicable, information included in the Companys consolidated financial statements and notes is cross referenced in this table. Payments Due by Period Contractual Item 8 Note Less than 1 3 3 5 More than Obligations Reference Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years (In millions) Purchases Inventories $ 9,949 $ 9,508 $ 417 $ 6 $ 18 Energy 498 284 137 31 46 Other 409 143 208 56 2 Total purchases 10,856 9,935 762 93 66 Short term debt 374 374 Long term debt Note 8 7,174 344 428 1,076 5,326 Estimated interest payments 7,928 381 700 636 6,211 Operating leases Note 13 1,381 235 371 333 442 Estimated pension and other postretirement plan contributions (1) Note 14 150 45 17 21 67 Total $ 27,863 $ 11,314 $ 2,278 $ 2,159 $ 12,112 (1) The Company is unable to estimate the amount of pension contributions beyond fiscal year 2011. For more information concerning the Companys pension and other postretirement plans, see Note 14 in Item 8. At June 30, 2010, the Company estimates it will spend approximately $1.5 billion through calendar year 2013 to complete currently approved capital projects which are not included in the table above. The Company also has outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds of $459 million at June 30, 2010. In addition, the Company has entered into agreements, primarily debt guarantee agreements related to equity method investees, which could obligate the Company to make future payments. The Companys liability under these agreements arises only if the primary entity fails to perform its contractual obligation. The Company has collateral for a portion of these contingent obligations. At June 30, 2010, these contingent obligations totaled approximately $131 million. Amounts outstanding for the primary entity under these contingent obligations were $74 million at June 30, 2010. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Critical Accounting Policies The process of preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the carrying values of the Companys assets and liabilities as well as the recognition of revenues and expenses. These estimates and judgments are based on the Companys historical experience and managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Certain of the Companys accounting policies are considered critical, as these policies are important to the depiction of the Companys financial statements and require significant or complex judgment by management. Management has discussed with the Companys Audit Committee the development, selection, disclosure, and application of these critical accounting policies. Following are the accounting policies management considers critical to the Companys financial statements. Inventories and Derivatives Certain of the Companys merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, forward fixed price purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts are valued at estimated market values. These merchandisable agricultural commodities are freely traded, have quoted market prices, and may be sold without significant additional processing. Management estimates market value based on exchange quoted prices, adjusted for differences in local markets. Changes in the market values of these inventories and contracts are recognized in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. If management used different methods or factors to estimate market value, amounts reported as inventories and cost of products sold coul d differ materially. Additionally, if market conditions change subsequent to year end, amounts reported in future periods as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. The Company, from time to time, uses derivative contracts designated as cash flow hedges to fix the purchase price of anticipated volumes of commodities to be purchased and processed in a future month, to fix the purchase price of the Companys anticipated natural gas requirements for certain production facilities, and to fix the sales price of anticipated volumes of ethanol. The change in the market value of such derivative contracts has historically been, and is expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold and net sales and other operating income in th e statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. If it is determined that the derivative instruments used are no longer effective at offsetting changes in the price of the hedged item, then the changes in the market value of these exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts would be recorded in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. Employee Benefit Plans The Company provides substantially all domestic employees and employees at certain international subsidiaries with pension benefits. Eligible domestic employees with five or more years of service prior to January 1, 2009 participate in a defined benefit pension plan. Eligible domestic employees hired on or after January 1, 2009 (and eligible salaried employees with less than five years of service prior to January 1, 2009) participate in a cash balance pension formula. The Company provides eligible domestic employees who retire under qualifying conditions with access to postretirement health care, at full cost to the retiree (certain employees are grandfather ed into subsidized coverage). In order to measure the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans, management makes several estimates and assumptions, including interest rates used to discount certain liabilities, rates of return on assets set aside to fund these plans, rates of compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and anticipated future health care costs. These estimates and assumptions are based on the Companys historical experience combined with managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Management also uses third party actuaries to assist in measuring the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans. If management used different estimates and assumptions regarding these plans, the funded status of the plans could vary significantly, and the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Income Taxes The Company frequently faces challenges from domestic and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company records reserves for estimates of potential additional tax owed by the Company. As an example, a subsidiary of the Company received a tax assessment in the amount of $456 million (subject to variation in currency exchange rates) consisting of tax, penalty, and interest from the Brazilian Federal Revenue Service challenging the deductibility of commodity hedging losses incurred by the Company in 2004. The Company evaluated its tax position rega rding these hedging transactions and concluded, based in part upon advice from Brazilian legal counsel, that it was appropriate to recognize the tax benefits of these deductions (See Note 12 in Item 8 for additional information). Deferred tax assets represent items to be used as tax deductions or credits in future tax returns, and the related tax benefit has already been recognized in the Companys income statement. The realization of the Companys deferred tax assets is dependent upon future taxable income in specific tax jurisdictions, the timing and amount of which are uncertain. The Company evaluates all available positive and negative evidence including estimated future reversals of existing temporary differences, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies, and recent financial results. Valuation allowances related to these deferred tax assets have been established to the extent the realization of the tax benefit is not likely. To the extent the Company were to favorably resolve matters for which accruals have been established or be required to pay amounts in excess of the aforementioned reserves, the Companys effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be impacted. Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and affiliated corporate joint ventures accounted for on the equity method are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned factors may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and cash flows of the Compa nys assets in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its factories. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment, technology, and companies related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. The Company evaluates goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives for impairment annually. Assets are written down after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these assets, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Valuation of Marketable Securities and Investments in Affiliates The Company classifies the majority of its marketable securities as available for sale and carries these securities at fair value. The Company applies the equity method for investments in investees over which the Company has the ability to exercise significant influence. These investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings and are adjusted, where appropriate, for amortizable basis differences between the investment balance and the underlying net assets of the investee. For publicly traded securities, the fair value of the Companys investments is readily available based on quoted market prices. For non publicly traded securities, managements assessment of fair value is based on valuation methodologies including discounted cash flows and estima tes of sales proceeds. In the event of a decline in fair value of an investment below carrying value, management is required to determine if the decline in fair value is other than temporary. In evaluating the nature of a decline in the fair value of an investment, management considers the market conditions, trends of earnings, discounted cash flows, trading volumes, and other key measures of the investment as well as the Companys ability and intent to hold the investment. When such a decline in value is deemed to be other than temporary, an impairment loss is recognized in the current period operating results to the extent of the decline. See Notes 5 and 6 in Item 8 for information regarding the Companys marketable securities and investments in affiliates. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these marketable securities, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in: commodity market prices as they relate to the Companys net commodity position, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and prices of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to factors such as changes in weather conditions, disease, plantings, government programs and policies, competition, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. To reduce price risk caused by market fluctuations, the Company generally follows a policy of using exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts to minimize its net position of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories and forward cash purchase and sales contracts. The Company will also use exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the volatility of the relationship between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contracts defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company, from time to time, enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold or net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) A sensitivity analysis has been prepared to estimate the Companys exposure to market risk of its daily net commodity position. The Companys daily net commodity position consists of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, related purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts, including those contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements. The fair value of such daily net commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing each net position at quoted futures prices. Market risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in such prices. Actual results may differ. 2010 2009 Long/(Short) Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest position $ 429 $ 43 $ 845 $ 85 Lowest position (667 ) (67 ) (1,342 ) (134 ) Average position (190 ) (19 ) (392 ) (39 ) The change in fair value of the average position for 2010 compared to 2009 was principally the result of changes in average quantities underlying the daily net commodity position. Currencies The Company conducts its business in over 60 countries. For the majority of the Companys subsidiaries located outside the United States, the local currency is the functional currency. In order to reduce the risks associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, except for amounts permanently invested as described below, the Company follows a policy of entering into currency exchange contracts to mitigate its foreign currency risk related to transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currencies applicable to each of its various entities, primarily the Euro, British pound, Canadian dollar, and Brazilian real. The instruments used are forward contracts, swaps with banks, exchange traded futures contracts, and over the counter options. The changes in marke t value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $6.4 billion at June 30, 2010, and $6.6 billion at June 30, 2009. This decrease is due to the depreciation of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar partially offset by an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The potential loss in fair value, which would principally be recognized in Other Comprehensive Income, resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $639 million and $664 million for 2010 and 2009, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical .5% decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2010 2009 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 7,700 $ 8,103 Excess of fair value over carrying value 870 511 Market risk 289 310 The decrease in fair value of long term debt in 2010 resulted principally from the repurchase of $500 million in aggregate principal amount of the Companys outstanding debentures. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Other includes the Companys remaining processing operations, consisting of activities related to processing agricultural commodities into food ingredient products such as wheat into wheat flour and cocoa into chocolate and cocoa products. Other also includes financial activities related to banking, captive insurance, private equity fund investments, futures commission merchant activities, and the Companys share of the results of its equity method investment in Gruma S.A.B. de C.V. Certain Corporate items are not allocated to the Companys reportable business segments. Corporate results include the impact of LIFO related adjustments, the after tax elimination of income attributable to mandatorily redeemable interests in consolidated subsidiaries, unallocated corporate expenses, and unallocated net interest costs. Operating Performance Indicators The Companys Oilseeds Processing, Agricultural Services, and wheat processing operations are principally agricultural commodity based businesses where changes in selling prices move in relationship to changes in prices of the commodity based agricultural raw materials. Thus, changes in agricultural commodity prices have relatively equal impacts on both sales revenue and cost of products sold. Therefore, changes in gross profit of these businesses do not necessarily correspond to the changes in net sales and other operating income amounts. The Companys Corn Processing operations and certain other food and animal feed processing operations also utilize agricultural commodities (or products derived from agricultural commodities) as raw materials. In these operations, agricultural commodity market price changes can result in significant fluctuations in cost of products sold, and such price changes cannot necessarily be passed directly through to the selling price of the finished products. The Company conducts its business in over 60 countries. For the majority of the Companys subsidiaries located outside the United States the local currency is the functional currency. Revenues and expenses denominated in foreign currencies are translated into U.S. dollars at the weighted average exchange rates for the applicable periods. For the majority of the Companys business activities in Brazil, the functional currency is the U.S. dollar, however certain transactions, including taxes, occur in local currency and require conversion to the functional currency. The impact of these currency exchange rate changes, where significant, is discussed in Item 7A. Fluctuations in the exchange rates of foreign currencies, primarily the Euro, British pound, Canadian dollar and Brazilian r eal, as compared to the U.S. dollar will result in corresponding fluctuations in the U.S. dollar value of revenues and expenses reported by the Company. The Company measures the performance of its business segments using key operating statistics such as segment operating profit, return on fixed capital investment, return on invested capital, and return on equity. The Companys operating results can vary significantly due to changes in factors such as fluctuations in energy prices, weather conditions, crop plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth, general global economic conditions, changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. Due to these unpredictable factors, the Company does not provide forward looking information in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) 2010 Compared to 2009 As an agricultural commodity based business, the Company is subject to a variety of market factors which affect the Companys operating results. Market expectations throughout most of fiscal 2010 for fewer global crop supply and demand imbalances, coupled with continuing uncertainty about short term demand, led to generally lower and less volatile agricultural commodity market prices and conditions. In addition, the late, extended U.S. harvest reduced profit opportunities. North American oilseed exports and domestic crushing volumes were enhanced by the poor supply of 2009 crop year soybeans in South America. Increased government mandates for the use of biodiesel in South America and Europe resulted in increased biodiesel demand and helped keep overall demand for refined and crude vegetable oil steady in these regions. However, in North America, demand for vegetable oils remained weak due to low consumption of oils in the food service and biodiesel industries, in part due to the expiration of the biodiesel blending credit in the U.S. on January 1, 2010. Soybean protein meal demand improved, particularly in Asia. Market prices for corn decreased resulting in lower raw material costs for Corn Processing and decreased average selling prices for sweeteners and starches. Lower energy, fuel and chemical costs per unit positively impacted the Companys manufacturing costs. More favorable ethanol blending economics together with increased ethanol merchandising activity resulted in increased demand, higher ethanol sales volumes, and improved margins. Earnings before income taxes for 2010 include a credit of $42 million from the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations, compared to a credit of $517 million in 2009. Income taxes decreased $146 million due to a lower effective income tax rate, partially offset by higher pretax earnings. Income taxes for 2009 included a $158 million charge resulting from the restructuring of a holding company in which the Company holds a portion of its equity investment in Wilmar. Analysis of Statements of Earnings Net sales and other operating income by segment are as follows: 2010 2009 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing & Origination $ 15,732 $ 15,579 $ 153 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel & Other 7,136 8,760 (1,624 ) Asia 190 179 11 Total Oilseeds Processing 23,058 24,518 (1,460 ) Corn Processing Sweeteners & Starches 3,333 3,785 (452 ) Bioproducts 4,609 3,938 671 Total Corn Processing 7,942 7,723 219 Agricultural Services Merchandising & Handling 25,273 31,342 (6,069 ) Transportation 167 242 (75 ) Total Agricultural Services 25,440 31,584 (6,144 ) Other Wheat, Cocoa & Malt 5,147 5,272 (125 ) Financial 95 110 (15 ) Total Other 5,242 5,382 (140 ) Total $ 61,682 $ 69,207 $ (7,525 ) Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Net sales and other operating income decreased 11% to $61.7 billion due principally to lower average selling prices in line with year over year declines in underlying commodity costs. Oilseeds Processing sales decreased 6% to $23.1 billion, due principally to lower average selling prices for soybeans, protein meal, refined oil, and biodiesel partially offset by increased sales volumes of soybeans and fertilizer. Corn Processing sales increased 3% to $7.9 billion primarily as a result of increased sales volumes of ethanol and lysine partially offset by lower average selling prices of ethanol, sweeteners, and starches. Agricultural Services sales decreased 19% to $25.4 billion, due to lower average selling prices, in line with year over year declines in underlying commodity prices, and lower sales volumes . Other sales decreased 3% to $5.2 billion, primarily due to lower average selling prices of wheat flour partially offset by increased wheat flour sales volumes and higher average selling prices and sales volumes for cocoa products. Cost of products sold decreased 11% to $57.8 billion, due principally to decreased agricultural commodity costs including the impact of changes in LIFO inventory valuations which reduced cost of products sold by $42 million in 2010 compared to $517 million in 2009. Manufacturing expenses decreased 1% or $60 million, primarily due to lower energy, chemical and fuel costs partially offset by higher employee related costs and a $124 million increase in depreciation and amortization expense. In 2010, manufacturing expenses included additional costs associated with the Companys new greenfield plants. Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased 1% to $1.4 billion, due principally to decreased provisions for doubtful accounts partially offset by increased expenses for legal, professional, and commercial services. Other (income) expense net improved $317 million primarily due to increased equity earnings of unconsolidated affiliates of $416 million, and decreased expense for the elimination of after tax mandatorily redeemable interests in consolidated subsidiaries. These increases were partially offset by pre tax charges of $75 million related to the early extinguishment of debt and $59 million for unrealized losses on interest rate swaps (for more information see Note 8 in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data). Equity earnings of unconsolidated affiliates in 2009 included a non cash charge of $275 million related to currency derivative losses of the Companys equity investee, Gruma S.A.B. de C.V. Income taxes decreased $146 million due to a lower effective income tax rate partially offset by higher pretax earnings. The Companys effective income tax rate during 2010 was 25.8%. In 2009, the effective income tax rate was 32.5% which included $158 million of income tax charges related to the partial restructuring of the holding company structure through which the Company holds a portion of its equity investment in Wilmar. Excluding these Wilmar charges, the Companys effective income tax rate for 2009 was 26.2%. For more information concerning Wilmar tax matters see Note 12 in Item 8. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Operating profit by segment is as follows: 2010 2009 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing & Origination $ 818 $ 767 $ 51 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel & Other 291 265 26 Asia 291 248 43 Total Oilseeds Processing 1,400 1,280 120 Corn Processing Sweeteners & Starches 529 500 29 Bioproducts 193 (315 ) 508 Total Corn Processing 722 185 537 Agricultural Services Merchandising & Handling 583 832 (249 ) Transportation 85 162 (77 ) Total Agricultural Services 668 994 (326 ) Other Wheat, Cocoa & Malt 403 51 352 Financial 46 (57 ) 103 Total Other 449 (6 ) 455 Total Segment Operating Profit 3,239 2,453 786 Corporate (see below) (654 ) 47 (701 ) Earnings Before Income Taxes $ 2,585 $ 2,500 $ 85 Corporate results are as follows: 2010 2009 Change (In millions) LIFO credit $ 42 $ 517 $ (475 ) Unallocated interest expense net (283 ) (192 ) (91 ) Unallocated corporate costs (266 ) (252 ) (14 ) Charges on early extinguishment of debt (75 ) (75 ) Unrealized losses on interest rate swaps (59 ) (59 ) Other (13 ) (26 ) 13 Total Corporate $ (654 ) $ 47 $ (701 ) Oilseeds Processing operating profit increased 9% to $1.4 billion. Crushing and origination results increased $51 million due to higher North American soybean crushing margins and favorable soft seed commodity positioning partially offset by lower soybean crushing margins in Europe and South America. Refining, packaging, biodiesel and other operating profit increased $26 million due primarily to higher South American biodiesel results and improved margins in Europe. Oilseeds processing results in Asia increased $43 million to $291 million due principally to improved equity earnings of Wilmar. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Corn Processing operating profit increased $537 million to $722 million. Bioproducts operating profit increased $508 million due to improved ethanol and lysine sales volumes and improved ethanol margins resulting from lower net corn costs and decreased manufacturing costs. Ethanol sales volumes increased due to favorable gasoline blending economics and increased merchandising activity. Sweeteners and starches operating profit increased $29 million due to lower net corn and manufacturing costs due principally to lower energy and chemical prices. These lower manufacturing costs were partially offset by lower average selling prices. Agricultural Services operating profit decreased $326 million to $668 million. Merchandising and handling results decreased $249 million. Enhanced volume and margin opportunities created by last years volatile commodity markets and tight credit markets did not recur. Volumes and margins in 2010 benefited from strong demand for U.S. soybean exports following the short South American 2009 crop. Transportation results decreased $77 million due to lower barge freight rates and decreased barge utilization levels resulting from weaker U.S. economic conditions and the late, extended North American harvest. Other operating profit increased $455 million to $449 million. Wheat, cocoa and malt operating profit increased $352 million due to improved equity earnings from the Companys investment in Gruma, improved wheat milling margins, and improved cocoa processing results. Financial operating profit increased $103 million due primarily to the absence of losses experienced last year from managed fund investments and captive insurance operations. Corporate results decreased $701 million. The effects of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations resulted in a credit of $42 million for the year ended June 30, 2010, compared to a credit of $517 million for the year ended June 30, 2009. Unallocated interest expense net increased $91 million reflecting a reduction in corporate interest income caused by lower short term interest rates and lower working capital requirements of the operating segments. In January 2010, the Company repurchased $500 million of long term debt which generated a $75 million pretax charge on early extinguishment of debt. In connection with a debt remarketing planned for 2011, the Company entered into interest rate swaps to fix the interest rate on a portion of the planned remarketing which result ed in $59 million of unrealized losses on interest rate swaps. 2009 Compared to 2008 As an agricultural commodity based business, the Company is subject to a variety of market factors which affect the Companys operating results. Net corn costs increased significantly in 2009 compared to 2008, negatively impacting ethanol margins, and, to a lesser extent, sweeteners and starches margins as the higher net corn costs were only partially offset by increased selling prices for sweeteners and starches. Additionally, lower demand for gasoline, decreased gasoline prices and excess ethanol industry capacity negatively impacted ethanol margins. Demand for agricultural commodities, freight, and other products was weaker during 2009 in line with the downturn in the global economy. Results were negatively impacted by decreased equity earnings in unconsolidated affiliates including significant non cash charges related to currency derivative losses incurred by the Companys equity investee, Gruma S.A.B. de C.V., and losses from the Companys managed fund investments. Earnings before income taxes for 2009 include a credit of $517 million from the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuation reserves, compared to a charge of $569 million in 2008. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Income taxes for 2009 include charges of $158 million resulting from the restructuring of a holding company in which the Company holds a portion of its equity investment in Wilmar. Analysis of Statements of Earnings Net sales and other operating income decreased 1% to $69.2 billion due to foreign exchange translation impacts and decreased sales volumes partially offset by higher average selling prices. Net sales and other operating income increased $3.0 billion due to higher average selling prices primarily related to higher underlying commodity costs, decreased $2.0 billion due to foreign exchange translation impacts, and decreased $1.6 billion due to lower sales volumes and other. Net sales and other operating income by segment are as follows: 2009 2008 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing & Origination $ 15,579 $ 14,477 $ 1,102 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel & Other 8,760 8,588 172 Asia 179 214 (35 ) Total Oilseeds Processing 24,518 23,279 1,239 Corn Processing Sweeteners & Starches 3,785 3,546 239 Bioproducts 3,938 3,591 347 Total Corn Processing 7,723 7,137 586 Agricultural Services Merchandising & Handling 31,342 33,749 (2,407 ) Transportation 242 219 23 Total Agricultural Services 31,584 33,968 (2,384 ) Other Wheat, Cocoa & Malt 5,272 5,335 (63 ) Financial 110 97 13 Total Other 5,382 5,432 (50 ) Total $ 69,207 $ 69,816 $ (609 ) Oilseeds Processing sales increased 5% to $24.5 billion due principally to increased sales volumes of merchandised oilseeds and biodiesel partially offset by lower sales volumes of vegetable oil and protein meal. Corn Processing sales increased 8% to $7.7 billion due principally to higher sales volumes of ethanol and higher average selling prices of sweeteners and starches, partially offset by lower average selling prices of ethanol. Agricultural Services sales decreased 7% to $31.6 billion due principally to lower sales volumes of grain. Other sales decreased 1% to $5.4 billion primarily due to the sale of the Companys malting business during the first quarter of fiscal year 2009 and lower average selling prices of wheat flour. Partially offsetting these decreases were higher average selling prices of cocoa products and increased chocolate sales volumes. Cost of products sold decreased 1% to $65.1 billion, in line with the decrease in net sales and other operating income. Cost of products sold decreased $856 million due principally to decreased sales volumes, decreased LIFO inventory valuations and approximately $1.9 billion from the impact of foreign currency translation, partially offset by increased agricultural commodity costs. Manufacturing expenses decreased $215 million primarily due to decreased energy and fuel costs. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Selling, general and administrative expenses of $1.4 billion were comparable to 2008. Decreased employee related costs and favorable impacts from foreign currency translation were offset by increases in provisions for doubtful accounts. Other (income) expense net decreased $348 million primarily due to decreased results from equity earnings of unconsolidated affiliates of $270 million, and decreased investment income. Equity earnings in unconsolidated affiliates included a non cash charge of $275 million of foreign exchange derivative losses incurred by the Companys equity investee, Gruma S.A.B. de C.V. Operating profit by segment is as follows: 2009 2008 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing & Origination $ 767 $ 727 $ 40 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel & Other 265 181 84 Asia 248 132 116 Total Oilseeds Processing 1,280 1,040 240 Corn Processing Sweeteners & Starches 500 557 (57 ) Bioproducts (315 ) 404 (719 ) Total Corn Processing 185 961 (776 ) Agricultural Services Merchandising & Handling 832 873 (41 ) Transportation 162 144 18 Total Agricultural Services 994 1,017 (23 ) Other Wheat, Cocoa & Malt 51 217 (166 ) Financial (57 ) 206 (263 ) Total Other (6 ) 423 (429 ) Total Segment Operating Profit 2,453 3,441 (988 ) Corporate (see below) 47 (847 ) 894 Earnings Before Income Taxes $ 2,500 $ 2,594 $ (94 ) Corporate results are as follows: 2009 2008 Change (In millions) LIFO credit (charge) $ 517 $ (569 ) $ 1,086 Interest expense (income) net (192 ) 49 (241 ) Corporate costs (252 ) (262 ) 10 Other (26 ) (65 ) 39 Total Corporate $ 47 $ (847 ) $ 894 Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Oilseeds Processing operating profit increased 23% to $1.3 billion. Crushing and origination results increased $40 million. Improved global crushing margins were partially offset by lower fertilizer sales volumes and margins and lower North American crushing volumes due to decreased demand for vegetable oil and protein meal. Refining, packaging, biodiesel and other results increased $84 million due principally to higher biodiesel sales volumes in South America and increased average margins for value added products. 2008 results for refining, packaging, biodiesel and other included asset abandonment charges of $27 million. Asia results increased $116 million due principally to the Companys share in improved operating results of Wilmar. Corn Processing operating profits decreased 81% to $185 million. Sweeteners and starches decreased $57 million due to the impact of higher net corn costs partially offset by higher average sweetener and starches selling prices. Bioproducts operating profit decreased $719 million for the year as ethanol and lysine margins declined significantly due to higher corn costs and lower average selling prices. Ethanol margins were also impacted by lower demand for gasoline, decreased gasoline prices, and excess ethanol industry capacity. Agricultural Services operating profits decreased 2% to $994 million. Merchandising and handling profit decreased $41 million. Merchandising margins moderated as demand for commodities slowed following the downturn in the global economy. Transportation results increased $18 million due to higher barge freight rates. Other operating profits decreased 101% to a loss of $6 million. Wheat, cocoa, and malt processing operating profit decreased $166 million for the year primarily due to equity losses from the Companys investment in Gruma, partially offset by improved cocoa and wheat processing margins. Financial operating profit decreased $263 million due to losses on managed fund investments compared to gains for the year ended June 30, 2008, increased captive insurance loss provisions and decreased interest income and lower marketable security gains of the Companys brokerage service business. Corporate results increased $894 million to $47 million, primarily due to the effects of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations which resulted in credits of $517 million for the year ended June 30, 2009, compared to $569 million of LIFO charges for the year ended June 30, 2008. Unallocated interest expense increased $241 million primarily due to higher long term debt interest expense and decreased interest income. Corporate interest income decreased due to lower short term interest rates and lower working capital requirements of the operating segments. The Companys effective tax rate during 2009 was 32.5% compared to 31.1% during 2008. Income taxes increased $4 million. Lower pre tax earnings and positive impacts from favorable changes in geographic mix of earnings, currency translation impacts in South America, lower tax rates in certain foreign jurisdictions, and return to provision adjustments, were offset by charges of $158 million resulting from the restructuring of a holding company in which the Company holds a portion of its equity investment in Wilmar. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Liquidity and Capital Resources A Company objective is to have sufficient liquidity, balance sheet strength, and financial flexibility to fund the operating and capital requirements of a capital intensive agricultural commodity based business. The primary source of funds to finance the Companys operations and capital expenditures is cash generated by operations. In addition, the Company maintains a commercial paper borrowing facility and has access to equity and debt capital from public and private sources in both domestic and international markets. At June 30, 2010, the Company had $1.4 billion of cash, cash equivalents, and short term marketable securities and a current ratio, defined as current assets divided by current liabilities, of 2.1 to 1. Included in working capital is $4.9 billion of readily marketable commodity inventories. Cash generated by operating activities decreased to $2.7 billion for the year compared to $5.3 billion last year due primarily to a $3.1 billion decrease in 2009 working capital requirements related to lower agricultural commodity market prices. Cash used in investing activities was $1.7 billion compared to $1.9 billion last year. Cash used in financing activities was $1.0 billion for the year compared to $3.2 billion last year due principally to a decrease in repayments of commercial paper borrowings part ially offset by the repurchase of $500 million of long term debt. At June 30, 2010, the Companys capital resources included net worth of $14.6 billion and lines of credit totaling $6.0 billion, of which $5.7 billion was unused. The Companys ratio of long term debt to total capital (the sum of the Companys long term debt and shareholders equity) was 32% at June 30, 2010 and 36% at June 30, 2009. This ratio is a measure of the Companys long term liquidity and is an indicator of financial flexibility. Of the Companys total lines of credit, $4.2 billion support a commercial paper borrowing facility, against which there were no borrowings at June 30, 2010. The Company has outstanding $1.15 billion principal amount of convertible senior notes. As of June 30, 2010, none of the conditions permitting conversion of these notes had been satisfied. The Company has purchased call options and warrants intended to reduce the potential shareholder dilution upon future conversion of the notes. As of June 30, 2010, the market price of the Companys common stock was not greater than the exercise price of the purchased call options or warrants related to the convertible senior notes. In June 2008, the Company issued $1.75 billion of debentures as a component of Equity Units (see Note 8 in Item 8). The debentures will be remarketed in 2011. The Equity Units are a combination of debt and forward contracts for the holder to purchase the Companys common stock. Each purchase contract obligates the holder to purchase from the Company, no later than June 1, 2011, for a price of $50 in cash, a certain number of shares, ranging from 1.0453 shares to 1.2544 shares, of the Companys common stock, based on a formula established in the contract. The Companys credit facilities and certain debentures require the Company to comply with specified financial and non financial covenants including maintenance of minimum tangible net worth as well as limitations related to incurring liens, secured debt, and certain other financing arrangements. The Company is in compliance with these covenants as of June 30, 2010. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements In the normal course of business, the Company enters into contracts and commitments which obligate the Company to make payments in the future. The following table sets forth the Companys significant future obligations by time period. Purchases include commodity based contracts entered into in the normal course of business, which are further described in Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, energy related purchase contracts entered into in the normal course of business, and other purchase obligations related to the Companys normal business activities. The following table does not include unrecognized income tax benefits of $84 million as at June 30, 2010, due to uncertainty of the timing of deductibility. Where applicable, information included in the Companys consolidated financial statements and notes is cross referenced in this table. Payments Due by Period Contractual Item 8 Note Less than 1 3 3 5 More than Obligations Reference Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years (In millions) Purchases Inventories $ 9,949 $ 9,508 $ 417 $ 6 $ 18 Energy 498 284 137 31 46 Other 409 143 208 56 2 Total purchases 10,856 9,935 762 93 66 Short term debt 374 374 Long term debt Note 8 7,174 344 428 1,076 5,326 Estimated interest payments 7,928 381 700 636 6,211 Operating leases Note 13 1,381 235 371 333 442 Estimated pension and other postretirement plan contributions (1) Note 14 150 45 17 21 67 Total $ 27,863 $ 11,314 $ 2,278 $ 2,159 $ 12,112 (1) The Company is unable to estimate the amount of pension contributions beyond fiscal year 2011. For more information concerning the Companys pension and other postretirement plans, see Note 14 in Item 8. At June 30, 2010, the Company estimates it will spend approximately $1.5 billion through calendar year 2013 to complete currently approved capital projects which are not included in the table above. The Company also has outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds of $459 million at June 30, 2010. In addition, the Company has entered into agreements, primarily debt guarantee agreements related to equity method investees, which could obligate the Company to make future payments. The Companys liability under these agreements arises only if the primary entity fails to perform its contractual obligation. The Company has collateral for a portion of these contingent obligations. At June 30, 2010, these contingent obligations totaled approximately $131 million. Amounts outstanding for the primary entity under these contingent obligations were $74 million at June 30, 2010. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Critical Accounting Policies The process of preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the carrying values of the Companys assets and liabilities as well as the recognition of revenues and expenses. These estimates and judgments are based on the Companys historical experience and managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Certain of the Companys accounting policies are considered critical, as these policies are important to the depiction of the Companys financial statements and require significant or complex judgment by management. Management has discussed with the Companys Audit Committee the development, selection, disclosure, and application of these critical accounting policies. Following are the accounting policies management considers critical to the Companys financial statements. Inventories and Derivatives Certain of the Companys merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, forward fixed price purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts are valued at estimated market values. These merchandisable agricultural commodities are freely traded, have quoted market prices, and may be sold without significant additional processing. Management estimates market value based on exchange quoted prices, adjusted for differences in local markets. Changes in the market values of these inventories and contracts are recognized in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. If management used different methods or factors to estimate market value, amounts reported as inventories and cost of products sold coul d differ materially. Additionally, if market conditions change subsequent to year end, amounts reported in future periods as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. The Company, from time to time, uses derivative contracts designated as cash flow hedges to fix the purchase price of anticipated volumes of commodities to be purchased and processed in a future month, to fix the purchase price of the Companys anticipated natural gas requirements for certain production facilities, and to fix the sales price of anticipated volumes of ethanol. The change in the market value of such derivative contracts has historically been, and is expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold and net sales and other operating income in th e statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. If it is determined that the derivative instruments used are no longer effective at offsetting changes in the price of the hedged item, then the changes in the market value of these exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts would be recorded in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. Employee Benefit Plans The Company provides substantially all domestic employees and employees at certain international subsidiaries with pension benefits. Eligible domestic employees with five or more years of service prior to January 1, 2009 participate in a defined benefit pension plan. Eligible domestic employees hired on or after January 1, 2009 (and eligible salaried employees with less than five years of service prior to January 1, 2009) participate in a cash balance pension formula. The Company provides eligible domestic employees who retire under qualifying conditions with access to postretirement health care, at full cost to the retiree (certain employees are grandfather ed into subsidized coverage). In order to measure the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans, management makes several estimates and assumptions, including interest rates used to discount certain liabilities, rates of return on assets set aside to fund these plans, rates of compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and anticipated future health care costs. These estimates and assumptions are based on the Companys historical experience combined with managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Management also uses third party actuaries to assist in measuring the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans. If management used different estimates and assumptions regarding these plans, the funded status of the plans could vary significantly, and the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Income Taxes The Company frequently faces challenges from domestic and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company records reserves for estimates of potential additional tax owed by the Company. As an example, a subsidiary of the Company received a tax assessment in the amount of $456 million (subject to variation in currency exchange rates) consisting of tax, penalty, and interest from the Brazilian Federal Revenue Service challenging the deductibility of commodity hedging losses incurred by the Company in 2004. The Company evaluated its tax position rega rding these hedging transactions and concluded, based in part upon advice from Brazilian legal counsel, that it was appropriate to recognize the tax benefits of these deductions (See Note 12 in Item 8 for additional information). Deferred tax assets represent items to be used as tax deductions or credits in future tax returns, and the related tax benefit has already been recognized in the Companys income statement. The realization of the Companys deferred tax assets is dependent upon future taxable income in specific tax jurisdictions, the timing and amount of which are uncertain. The Company evaluates all available positive and negative evidence including estimated future reversals of existing temporary differences, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies, and recent financial results. Valuation allowances related to these deferred tax assets have been established to the extent the realization of the tax benefit is not likely. To the extent the Company were to favorably resolve matters for which accruals have been established or be required to pay amounts in excess of the aforementioned reserves, the Companys effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be impacted. Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and affiliated corporate joint ventures accounted for on the equity method are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned factors may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and cash flows of the Compa nys assets in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its factories. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment, technology, and companies related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. The Company evaluates goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives for impairment annually. Assets are written down after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these assets, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Valuation of Marketable Securities and Investments in Affiliates The Company classifies the majority of its marketable securities as available for sale and carries these securities at fair value. The Company applies the equity method for investments in investees over which the Company has the ability to exercise significant influence. These investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings and are adjusted, where appropriate, for amortizable basis differences between the investment balance and the underlying net assets of the investee. For publicly traded securities, the fair value of the Companys investments is readily available based on quoted market prices. For non publicly traded securities, managements assessment of fair value is based on valuation methodologies including discounted cash flows and estima tes of sales proceeds. In the event of a decline in fair value of an investment below carrying value, management is required to determine if the decline in fair value is other than temporary. In evaluating the nature of a decline in the fair value of an investment, management considers the market conditions, trends of earnings, discounted cash flows, trading volumes, and other key measures of the investment as well as the Companys ability and intent to hold the investment. When such a decline in value is deemed to be other than temporary, an impairment loss is recognized in the current period operating results to the extent of the decline. See Notes 5 and 6 in Item 8 for information regarding the Companys marketable securities and investments in affiliates. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these marketable securities, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in: commodity market prices as they relate to the Companys net commodity position, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and prices of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to factors such as changes in weather conditions, disease, plantings, government programs and policies, competition, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. To reduce price risk caused by market fluctuations, the Company generally follows a policy of using exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts to minimize its net position of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories and forward cash purchase and sales contracts. The Company will also use exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the volatility of the relationship between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contracts defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company, from time to time, enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold or net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) A sensitivity analysis has been prepared to estimate the Companys exposure to market risk of its daily net commodity position. The Companys daily net commodity position consists of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, related purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts, including those contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements. The fair value of such daily net commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing each net position at quoted futures prices. Market risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in such prices. Actual results may differ. 2010 2009 Long/(Short) Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest position $ 429 $ 43 $ 845 $ 85 Lowest position (667 ) (67 ) (1,342 ) (134 ) Average position (190 ) (19 ) (392 ) (39 ) The change in fair value of the average position for 2010 compared to 2009 was principally the result of changes in average quantities underlying the daily net commodity position. Currencies The Company conducts its business in over 60 countries. For the majority of the Companys subsidiaries located outside the United States, the local currency is the functional currency. In order to reduce the risks associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, except for amounts permanently invested as described below, the Company follows a policy of entering into currency exchange contracts to mitigate its foreign currency risk related to transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currencies applicable to each of its various entities, primarily the Euro, British pound, Canadian dollar, and Brazilian real. The instruments used are forward contracts, swaps with banks, exchange traded futures contracts, and over the counter options. The changes in marke t value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $6.4 billion at June 30, 2010, and $6.6 billion at June 30, 2009. This decrease is due to the depreciation of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar partially offset by an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The potential loss in fair value, which would principally be recognized in Other Comprehensive Income, resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $639 million and $664 million for 2010 and 2009, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical .5% decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2010 2009 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 7,700 $ 8,103 Excess of fair value over carrying value 870 511 Market risk 289 310 The decrease in fair value of long term debt in 2010 resulted principally from the repurchase of $500 million in aggregate principal amount of the Companys outstanding debentures. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) 2010 Compared to 2009 As an agricultural commodity based business, the Company is subject to a variety of market factors which affect the Companys operating results. Market expectations throughout most of fiscal 2010 for fewer global crop supply and demand imbalances, coupled with continuing uncertainty about short term demand, led to generally lower and less volatile agricultural commodity market prices and conditions. In addition, the late, extended U.S. harvest reduced profit opportunities. North American oilseed exports and domestic crushing volumes were enhanced by the poor supply of 2009 crop year soybeans in South America. Increased government mandates for the use of biodiesel in South America and Europe resulted in increased biodiesel demand and helped keep overall demand for refined and crude vegetable oil steady in these regions. However, in North America, demand for vegetable oils remained weak due to low consumption of oils in the food service and biodiesel industries, in part due to the expiration of the biodiesel blending credit in the U.S. on January 1, 2010. Soybean protein meal demand improved, particularly in Asia. Market prices for corn decreased resulting in lower raw material costs for Corn Processing and decreased average selling prices for sweeteners and starches. Lower energy, fuel and chemical costs per unit positively impacted the Companys manufacturing costs. More favorable ethanol blending economics together with increased ethanol merchandising activity resulted in increased demand, higher ethanol sales volumes, and improved margins. Earnings before income taxes for 2010 include a credit of $42 million from the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations, compared to a credit of $517 million in 2009. Income taxes decreased $146 million due to a lower effective income tax rate, partially offset by higher pretax earnings. Income taxes for 2009 included a $158 million charge resulting from the restructuring of a holding company in which the Company holds a portion of its equity investment in Wilmar. Analysis of Statements of Earnings Net sales and other operating income by segment are as follows: 2010 2009 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing & Origination $ 15,732 $ 15,579 $ 153 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel & Other 7,136 8,760 (1,624 ) Asia 190 179 11 Total Oilseeds Processing 23,058 24,518 (1,460 ) Corn Processing Sweeteners & Starches 3,333 3,785 (452 ) Bioproducts 4,609 3,938 671 Total Corn Processing 7,942 7,723 219 Agricultural Services Merchandising & Handling 25,273 31,342 (6,069 ) Transportation 167 242 (75 ) Total Agricultural Services 25,440 31,584 (6,144 ) Other Wheat, Cocoa & Malt 5,147 5,272 (125 ) Financial 95 110 (15 ) Total Other 5,242 5,382 (140 ) Total $ 61,682 $ 69,207 $ (7,525 ) Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Net sales and other operating income decreased 11% to $61.7 billion due principally to lower average selling prices in line with year over year declines in underlying commodity costs. Oilseeds Processing sales decreased 6% to $23.1 billion, due principally to lower average selling prices for soybeans, protein meal, refined oil, and biodiesel partially offset by increased sales volumes of soybeans and fertilizer. Corn Processing sales increased 3% to $7.9 billion primarily as a result of increased sales volumes of ethanol and lysine partially offset by lower average selling prices of ethanol, sweeteners, and starches. Agricultural Services sales decreased 19% to $25.4 billion, due to lower average selling prices, in line with year over year declines in underlying commodity prices, and lower sales volumes . Other sales decreased 3% to $5.2 billion, primarily due to lower average selling prices of wheat flour partially offset by increased wheat flour sales volumes and higher average selling prices and sales volumes for cocoa products. Cost of products sold decreased 11% to $57.8 billion, due principally to decreased agricultural commodity costs including the impact of changes in LIFO inventory valuations which reduced cost of products sold by $42 million in 2010 compared to $517 million in 2009. Manufacturing expenses decreased 1% or $60 million, primarily due to lower energy, chemical and fuel costs partially offset by higher employee related costs and a $124 million increase in depreciation and amortization expense. In 2010, manufacturing expenses included additional costs associated with the Companys new greenfield plants. Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased 1% to $1.4 billion, due principally to decreased provisions for doubtful accounts partially offset by increased expenses for legal, professional, and commercial services. Other (income) expense net improved $317 million primarily due to increased equity earnings of unconsolidated affiliates of $416 million, and decreased expense for the elimination of after tax mandatorily redeemable interests in consolidated subsidiaries. These increases were partially offset by pre tax charges of $75 million related to the early extinguishment of debt and $59 million for unrealized losses on interest rate swaps (for more information see Note 8 in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data). Equity earnings of unconsolidated affiliates in 2009 included a non cash charge of $275 million related to currency derivative losses of the Companys equity investee, Gruma S.A.B. de C.V. Income taxes decreased $146 million due to a lower effective income tax rate partially offset by higher pretax earnings. The Companys effective income tax rate during 2010 was 25.8%. In 2009, the effective income tax rate was 32.5% which included $158 million of income tax charges related to the partial restructuring of the holding company structure through which the Company holds a portion of its equity investment in Wilmar. Excluding these Wilmar charges, the Companys effective income tax rate for 2009 was 26.2%. For more information concerning Wilmar tax matters see Note 12 in Item 8. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Operating profit by segment is as follows: 2010 2009 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing & Origination $ 818 $ 767 $ 51 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel & Other 291 265 26 Asia 291 248 43 Total Oilseeds Processing 1,400 1,280 120 Corn Processing Sweeteners & Starches 529 500 29 Bioproducts 193 (315 ) 508 Total Corn Processing 722 185 537 Agricultural Services Merchandising & Handling 583 832 (249 ) Transportation 85 162 (77 ) Total Agricultural Services 668 994 (326 ) Other Wheat, Cocoa & Malt 403 51 352 Financial 46 (57 ) 103 Total Other 449 (6 ) 455 Total Segment Operating Profit 3,239 2,453 786 Corporate (see below) (654 ) 47 (701 ) Earnings Before Income Taxes $ 2,585 $ 2,500 $ 85 Corporate results are as follows: 2010 2009 Change (In millions) LIFO credit $ 42 $ 517 $ (475 ) Unallocated interest expense net (283 ) (192 ) (91 ) Unallocated corporate costs (266 ) (252 ) (14 ) Charges on early extinguishment of debt (75 ) (75 ) Unrealized losses on interest rate swaps (59 ) (59 ) Other (13 ) (26 ) 13 Total Corporate $ (654 ) $ 47 $ (701 ) Oilseeds Processing operating profit increased 9% to $1.4 billion. Crushing and origination results increased $51 million due to higher North American soybean crushing margins and favorable soft seed commodity positioning partially offset by lower soybean crushing margins in Europe and South America. Refining, packaging, biodiesel and other operating profit increased $26 million due primarily to higher South American biodiesel results and improved margins in Europe. Oilseeds processing results in Asia increased $43 million to $291 million due principally to improved equity earnings of Wilmar. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Corn Processing operating profit increased $537 million to $722 million. Bioproducts operating profit increased $508 million due to improved ethanol and lysine sales volumes and improved ethanol margins resulting from lower net corn costs and decreased manufacturing costs. Ethanol sales volumes increased due to favorable gasoline blending economics and increased merchandising activity. Sweeteners and starches operating profit increased $29 million due to lower net corn and manufacturing costs due principally to lower energy and chemical prices. These lower manufacturing costs were partially offset by lower average selling prices. Agricultural Services operating profit decreased $326 million to $668 million. Merchandising and handling results decreased $249 million. Enhanced volume and margin opportunities created by last years volatile commodity markets and tight credit markets did not recur. Volumes and margins in 2010 benefited from strong demand for U.S. soybean exports following the short South American 2009 crop. Transportation results decreased $77 million due to lower barge freight rates and decreased barge utilization levels resulting from weaker U.S. economic conditions and the late, extended North American harvest. Other operating profit increased $455 million to $449 million. Wheat, cocoa and malt operating profit increased $352 million due to improved equity earnings from the Companys investment in Gruma, improved wheat milling margins, and improved cocoa processing results. Financial operating profit increased $103 million due primarily to the absence of losses experienced last year from managed fund investments and captive insurance operations. Corporate results decreased $701 million. The effects of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations resulted in a credit of $42 million for the year ended June 30, 2010, compared to a credit of $517 million for the year ended June 30, 2009. Unallocated interest expense net increased $91 million reflecting a reduction in corporate interest income caused by lower short term interest rates and lower working capital requirements of the operating segments. In January 2010, the Company repurchased $500 million of long term debt which generated a $75 million pretax charge on early extinguishment of debt. In connection with a debt remarketing planned for 2011, the Company entered into interest rate swaps to fix the interest rate on a portion of the planned remarketing which result ed in $59 million of unrealized losses on interest rate swaps. 2009 Compared to 2008 As an agricultural commodity based business, the Company is subject to a variety of market factors which affect the Companys operating results. Net corn costs increased significantly in 2009 compared to 2008, negatively impacting ethanol margins, and, to a lesser extent, sweeteners and starches margins as the higher net corn costs were only partially offset by increased selling prices for sweeteners and starches. Additionally, lower demand for gasoline, decreased gasoline prices and excess ethanol industry capacity negatively impacted ethanol margins. Demand for agricultural commodities, freight, and other products was weaker during 2009 in line with the downturn in the global economy. Results were negatively impacted by decreased equity earnings in unconsolidated affiliates including significant non cash charges related to currency derivative losses incurred by the Companys equity investee, Gruma S.A.B. de C.V., and losses from the Companys managed fund investments. Earnings before income taxes for 2009 include a credit of $517 million from the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuation reserves, compared to a charge of $569 million in 2008. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Income taxes for 2009 include charges of $158 million resulting from the restructuring of a holding company in which the Company holds a portion of its equity investment in Wilmar. Analysis of Statements of Earnings Net sales and other operating income decreased 1% to $69.2 billion due to foreign exchange translation impacts and decreased sales volumes partially offset by higher average selling prices. Net sales and other operating income increased $3.0 billion due to higher average selling prices primarily related to higher underlying commodity costs, decreased $2.0 billion due to foreign exchange translation impacts, and decreased $1.6 billion due to lower sales volumes and other. Net sales and other operating income by segment are as follows: 2009 2008 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing & Origination $ 15,579 $ 14,477 $ 1,102 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel & Other 8,760 8,588 172 Asia 179 214 (35 ) Total Oilseeds Processing 24,518 23,279 1,239 Corn Processing Sweeteners & Starches 3,785 3,546 239 Bioproducts 3,938 3,591 347 Total Corn Processing 7,723 7,137 586 Agricultural Services Merchandising & Handling 31,342 33,749 (2,407 ) Transportation 242 219 23 Total Agricultural Services 31,584 33,968 (2,384 ) Other Wheat, Cocoa & Malt 5,272 5,335 (63 ) Financial 110 97 13 Total Other 5,382 5,432 (50 ) Total $ 69,207 $ 69,816 $ (609 ) Oilseeds Processing sales increased 5% to $24.5 billion due principally to increased sales volumes of merchandised oilseeds and biodiesel partially offset by lower sales volumes of vegetable oil and protein meal. Corn Processing sales increased 8% to $7.7 billion due principally to higher sales volumes of ethanol and higher average selling prices of sweeteners and starches, partially offset by lower average selling prices of ethanol. Agricultural Services sales decreased 7% to $31.6 billion due principally to lower sales volumes of grain. Other sales decreased 1% to $5.4 billion primarily due to the sale of the Companys malting business during the first quarter of fiscal year 2009 and lower average selling prices of wheat flour. Partially offsetting these decreases were higher average selling prices of cocoa products and increased chocolate sales volumes. Cost of products sold decreased 1% to $65.1 billion, in line with the decrease in net sales and other operating income. Cost of products sold decreased $856 million due principally to decreased sales volumes, decreased LIFO inventory valuations and approximately $1.9 billion from the impact of foreign currency translation, partially offset by increased agricultural commodity costs. Manufacturing expenses decreased $215 million primarily due to decreased energy and fuel costs. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Selling, general and administrative expenses of $1.4 billion were comparable to 2008. Decreased employee related costs and favorable impacts from foreign currency translation were offset by increases in provisions for doubtful accounts. Other (income) expense net decreased $348 million primarily due to decreased results from equity earnings of unconsolidated affiliates of $270 million, and decreased investment income. Equity earnings in unconsolidated affiliates included a non cash charge of $275 million of foreign exchange derivative losses incurred by the Companys equity investee, Gruma S.A.B. de C.V. Operating profit by segment is as follows: 2009 2008 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing & Origination $ 767 $ 727 $ 40 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel & Other 265 181 84 Asia 248 132 116 Total Oilseeds Processing 1,280 1,040 240 Corn Processing Sweeteners & Starches 500 557 (57 ) Bioproducts (315 ) 404 (719 ) Total Corn Processing 185 961 (776 ) Agricultural Services Merchandising & Handling 832 873 (41 ) Transportation 162 144 18 Total Agricultural Services 994 1,017 (23 ) Other Wheat, Cocoa & Malt 51 217 (166 ) Financial (57 ) 206 (263 ) Total Other (6 ) 423 (429 ) Total Segment Operating Profit 2,453 3,441 (988 ) Corporate (see below) 47 (847 ) 894 Earnings Before Income Taxes $ 2,500 $ 2,594 $ (94 ) Corporate results are as follows: 2009 2008 Change (In millions) LIFO credit (charge) $ 517 $ (569 ) $ 1,086 Interest expense (income) net (192 ) 49 (241 ) Corporate costs (252 ) (262 ) 10 Other (26 ) (65 ) 39 Total Corporate $ 47 $ (847 ) $ 894 Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Oilseeds Processing operating profit increased 23% to $1.3 billion. Crushing and origination results increased $40 million. Improved global crushing margins were partially offset by lower fertilizer sales volumes and margins and lower North American crushing volumes due to decreased demand for vegetable oil and protein meal. Refining, packaging, biodiesel and other results increased $84 million due principally to higher biodiesel sales volumes in South America and increased average margins for value added products. 2008 results for refining, packaging, biodiesel and other included asset abandonment charges of $27 million. Asia results increased $116 million due principally to the Companys share in improved operating results of Wilmar. Corn Processing operating profits decreased 81% to $185 million. Sweeteners and starches decreased $57 million due to the impact of higher net corn costs partially offset by higher average sweetener and starches selling prices. Bioproducts operating profit decreased $719 million for the year as ethanol and lysine margins declined significantly due to higher corn costs and lower average selling prices. Ethanol margins were also impacted by lower demand for gasoline, decreased gasoline prices, and excess ethanol industry capacity. Agricultural Services operating profits decreased 2% to $994 million. Merchandising and handling profit decreased $41 million. Merchandising margins moderated as demand for commodities slowed following the downturn in the global economy. Transportation results increased $18 million due to higher barge freight rates. Other operating profits decreased 101% to a loss of $6 million. Wheat, cocoa, and malt processing operating profit decreased $166 million for the year primarily due to equity losses from the Companys investment in Gruma, partially offset by improved cocoa and wheat processing margins. Financial operating profit decreased $263 million due to losses on managed fund investments compared to gains for the year ended June 30, 2008, increased captive insurance loss provisions and decreased interest income and lower marketable security gains of the Companys brokerage service business. Corporate results increased $894 million to $47 million, primarily due to the effects of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations which resulted in credits of $517 million for the year ended June 30, 2009, compared to $569 million of LIFO charges for the year ended June 30, 2008. Unallocated interest expense increased $241 million primarily due to higher long term debt interest expense and decreased interest income. Corporate interest income decreased due to lower short term interest rates and lower working capital requirements of the operating segments. The Companys effective tax rate during 2009 was 32.5% compared to 31.1% during 2008. Income taxes increased $4 million. Lower pre tax earnings and positive impacts from favorable changes in geographic mix of earnings, currency translation impacts in South America, lower tax rates in certain foreign jurisdictions, and return to provision adjustments, were offset by charges of $158 million resulting from the restructuring of a holding company in which the Company holds a portion of its equity investment in Wilmar. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Liquidity and Capital Resources A Company objective is to have sufficient liquidity, balance sheet strength, and financial flexibility to fund the operating and capital requirements of a capital intensive agricultural commodity based business. The primary source of funds to finance the Companys operations and capital expenditures is cash generated by operations. In addition, the Company maintains a commercial paper borrowing facility and has access to equity and debt capital from public and private sources in both domestic and international markets. At June 30, 2010, the Company had $1.4 billion of cash, cash equivalents, and short term marketable securities and a current ratio, defined as current assets divided by current liabilities, of 2.1 to 1. Included in working capital is $4.9 billion of readily marketable commodity inventories. Cash generated by operating activities decreased to $2.7 billion for the year compared to $5.3 billion last year due primarily to a $3.1 billion decrease in 2009 working capital requirements related to lower agricultural commodity market prices. Cash used in investing activities was $1.7 billion compared to $1.9 billion last year. Cash used in financing activities was $1.0 billion for the year compared to $3.2 billion last year due principally to a decrease in repayments of commercial paper borrowings part ially offset by the repurchase of $500 million of long term debt. At June 30, 2010, the Companys capital resources included net worth of $14.6 billion and lines of credit totaling $6.0 billion, of which $5.7 billion was unused. The Companys ratio of long term debt to total capital (the sum of the Companys long term debt and shareholders equity) was 32% at June 30, 2010 and 36% at June 30, 2009. This ratio is a measure of the Companys long term liquidity and is an indicator of financial flexibility. Of the Companys total lines of credit, $4.2 billion support a commercial paper borrowing facility, against which there were no borrowings at June 30, 2010. The Company has outstanding $1.15 billion principal amount of convertible senior notes. As of June 30, 2010, none of the conditions permitting conversion of these notes had been satisfied. The Company has purchased call options and warrants intended to reduce the potential shareholder dilution upon future conversion of the notes. As of June 30, 2010, the market price of the Companys common stock was not greater than the exercise price of the purchased call options or warrants related to the convertible senior notes. In June 2008, the Company issued $1.75 billion of debentures as a component of Equity Units (see Note 8 in Item 8). The debentures will be remarketed in 2011. The Equity Units are a combination of debt and forward contracts for the holder to purchase the Companys common stock. Each purchase contract obligates the holder to purchase from the Company, no later than June 1, 2011, for a price of $50 in cash, a certain number of shares, ranging from 1.0453 shares to 1.2544 shares, of the Companys common stock, based on a formula established in the contract. The Companys credit facilities and certain debentures require the Company to comply with specified financial and non financial covenants including maintenance of minimum tangible net worth as well as limitations related to incurring liens, secured debt, and certain other financing arrangements. The Company is in compliance with these covenants as of June 30, 2010. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements In the normal course of business, the Company enters into contracts and commitments which obligate the Company to make payments in the future. The following table sets forth the Companys significant future obligations by time period. Purchases include commodity based contracts entered into in the normal course of business, which are further described in Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, energy related purchase contracts entered into in the normal course of business, and other purchase obligations related to the Companys normal business activities. The following table does not include unrecognized income tax benefits of $84 million as at June 30, 2010, due to uncertainty of the timing of deductibility. Where applicable, information included in the Companys consolidated financial statements and notes is cross referenced in this table. Payments Due by Period Contractual Item 8 Note Less than 1 3 3 5 More than Obligations Reference Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years (In millions) Purchases Inventories $ 9,949 $ 9,508 $ 417 $ 6 $ 18 Energy 498 284 137 31 46 Other 409 143 208 56 2 Total purchases 10,856 9,935 762 93 66 Short term debt 374 374 Long term debt Note 8 7,174 344 428 1,076 5,326 Estimated interest payments 7,928 381 700 636 6,211 Operating leases Note 13 1,381 235 371 333 442 Estimated pension and other postretirement plan contributions (1) Note 14 150 45 17 21 67 Total $ 27,863 $ 11,314 $ 2,278 $ 2,159 $ 12,112 (1) The Company is unable to estimate the amount of pension contributions beyond fiscal year 2011. For more information concerning the Companys pension and other postretirement plans, see Note 14 in Item 8. At June 30, 2010, the Company estimates it will spend approximately $1.5 billion through calendar year 2013 to complete currently approved capital projects which are not included in the table above. The Company also has outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds of $459 million at June 30, 2010. In addition, the Company has entered into agreements, primarily debt guarantee agreements related to equity method investees, which could obligate the Company to make future payments. The Companys liability under these agreements arises only if the primary entity fails to perform its contractual obligation. The Company has collateral for a portion of these contingent obligations. At June 30, 2010, these contingent obligations totaled approximately $131 million. Amounts outstanding for the primary entity under these contingent obligations were $74 million at June 30, 2010. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Critical Accounting Policies The process of preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the carrying values of the Companys assets and liabilities as well as the recognition of revenues and expenses. These estimates and judgments are based on the Companys historical experience and managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Certain of the Companys accounting policies are considered critical, as these policies are important to the depiction of the Companys financial statements and require significant or complex judgment by management. Management has discussed with the Companys Audit Committee the development, selection, disclosure, and application of these critical accounting policies. Following are the accounting policies management considers critical to the Companys financial statements. Inventories and Derivatives Certain of the Companys merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, forward fixed price purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts are valued at estimated market values. These merchandisable agricultural commodities are freely traded, have quoted market prices, and may be sold without significant additional processing. Management estimates market value based on exchange quoted prices, adjusted for differences in local markets. Changes in the market values of these inventories and contracts are recognized in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. If management used different methods or factors to estimate market value, amounts reported as inventories and cost of products sold coul d differ materially. Additionally, if market conditions change subsequent to year end, amounts reported in future periods as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. The Company, from time to time, uses derivative contracts designated as cash flow hedges to fix the purchase price of anticipated volumes of commodities to be purchased and processed in a future month, to fix the purchase price of the Companys anticipated natural gas requirements for certain production facilities, and to fix the sales price of anticipated volumes of ethanol. The change in the market value of such derivative contracts has historically been, and is expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold and net sales and other operating income in th e statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. If it is determined that the derivative instruments used are no longer effective at offsetting changes in the price of the hedged item, then the changes in the market value of these exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts would be recorded in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. Employee Benefit Plans The Company provides substantially all domestic employees and employees at certain international subsidiaries with pension benefits. Eligible domestic employees with five or more years of service prior to January 1, 2009 participate in a defined benefit pension plan. Eligible domestic employees hired on or after January 1, 2009 (and eligible salaried employees with less than five years of service prior to January 1, 2009) participate in a cash balance pension formula. The Company provides eligible domestic employees who retire under qualifying conditions with access to postretirement health care, at full cost to the retiree (certain employees are grandfather ed into subsidized coverage). In order to measure the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans, management makes several estimates and assumptions, including interest rates used to discount certain liabilities, rates of return on assets set aside to fund these plans, rates of compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and anticipated future health care costs. These estimates and assumptions are based on the Companys historical experience combined with managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Management also uses third party actuaries to assist in measuring the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans. If management used different estimates and assumptions regarding these plans, the funded status of the plans could vary significantly, and the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Income Taxes The Company frequently faces challenges from domestic and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company records reserves for estimates of potential additional tax owed by the Company. As an example, a subsidiary of the Company received a tax assessment in the amount of $456 million (subject to variation in currency exchange rates) consisting of tax, penalty, and interest from the Brazilian Federal Revenue Service challenging the deductibility of commodity hedging losses incurred by the Company in 2004. The Company evaluated its tax position rega rding these hedging transactions and concluded, based in part upon advice from Brazilian legal counsel, that it was appropriate to recognize the tax benefits of these deductions (See Note 12 in Item 8 for additional information). Deferred tax assets represent items to be used as tax deductions or credits in future tax returns, and the related tax benefit has already been recognized in the Companys income statement. The realization of the Companys deferred tax assets is dependent upon future taxable income in specific tax jurisdictions, the timing and amount of which are uncertain. The Company evaluates all available positive and negative evidence including estimated future reversals of existing temporary differences, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies, and recent financial results. Valuation allowances related to these deferred tax assets have been established to the extent the realization of the tax benefit is not likely. To the extent the Company were to favorably resolve matters for which accruals have been established or be required to pay amounts in excess of the aforementioned reserves, the Companys effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be impacted. Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and affiliated corporate joint ventures accounted for on the equity method are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned factors may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and cash flows of the Compa nys assets in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its factories. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment, technology, and companies related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. The Company evaluates goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives for impairment annually. Assets are written down after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these assets, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Valuation of Marketable Securities and Investments in Affiliates The Company classifies the majority of its marketable securities as available for sale and carries these securities at fair value. The Company applies the equity method for investments in investees over which the Company has the ability to exercise significant influence. These investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings and are adjusted, where appropriate, for amortizable basis differences between the investment balance and the underlying net assets of the investee. For publicly traded securities, the fair value of the Companys investments is readily available based on quoted market prices. For non publicly traded securities, managements assessment of fair value is based on valuation methodologies including discounted cash flows and estima tes of sales proceeds. In the event of a decline in fair value of an investment below carrying value, management is required to determine if the decline in fair value is other than temporary. In evaluating the nature of a decline in the fair value of an investment, management considers the market conditions, trends of earnings, discounted cash flows, trading volumes, and other key measures of the investment as well as the Companys ability and intent to hold the investment. When such a decline in value is deemed to be other than temporary, an impairment loss is recognized in the current period operating results to the extent of the decline. See Notes 5 and 6 in Item 8 for information regarding the Companys marketable securities and investments in affiliates. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these marketable securities, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in: commodity market prices as they relate to the Companys net commodity position, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and prices of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to factors such as changes in weather conditions, disease, plantings, government programs and policies, competition, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. To reduce price risk caused by market fluctuations, the Company generally follows a policy of using exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts to minimize its net position of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories and forward cash purchase and sales contracts. The Company will also use exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the volatility of the relationship between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contracts defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company, from time to time, enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold or net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) A sensitivity analysis has been prepared to estimate the Companys exposure to market risk of its daily net commodity position. The Companys daily net commodity position consists of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, related purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts, including those contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements. The fair value of such daily net commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing each net position at quoted futures prices. Market risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in such prices. Actual results may differ. 2010 2009 Long/(Short) Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest position $ 429 $ 43 $ 845 $ 85 Lowest position (667 ) (67 ) (1,342 ) (134 ) Average position (190 ) (19 ) (392 ) (39 ) The change in fair value of the average position for 2010 compared to 2009 was principally the result of changes in average quantities underlying the daily net commodity position. Currencies The Company conducts its business in over 60 countries. For the majority of the Companys subsidiaries located outside the United States, the local currency is the functional currency. In order to reduce the risks associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, except for amounts permanently invested as described below, the Company follows a policy of entering into currency exchange contracts to mitigate its foreign currency risk related to transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currencies applicable to each of its various entities, primarily the Euro, British pound, Canadian dollar, and Brazilian real. The instruments used are forward contracts, swaps with banks, exchange traded futures contracts, and over the counter options. The changes in marke t value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $6.4 billion at June 30, 2010, and $6.6 billion at June 30, 2009. This decrease is due to the depreciation of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar partially offset by an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The potential loss in fair value, which would principally be recognized in Other Comprehensive Income, resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $639 million and $664 million for 2010 and 2009, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical .5% decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2010 2009 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 7,700 $ 8,103 Excess of fair value over carrying value 870 511 Market risk 289 310 The decrease in fair value of long term debt in 2010 resulted principally from the repurchase of $500 million in aggregate principal amount of the Companys outstanding debentures. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Net sales and other operating income decreased 11% to $61.7 billion due principally to lower average selling prices in line with year over year declines in underlying commodity costs. Oilseeds Processing sales decreased 6% to $23.1 billion, due principally to lower average selling prices for soybeans, protein meal, refined oil, and biodiesel partially offset by increased sales volumes of soybeans and fertilizer. Corn Processing sales increased 3% to $7.9 billion primarily as a result of increased sales volumes of ethanol and lysine partially offset by lower average selling prices of ethanol, sweeteners, and starches. Agricultural Services sales decreased 19% to $25.4 billion, due to lower average selling prices, in line with year over year declines in underlying commodity prices, and lower sales volumes . Other sales decreased 3% to $5.2 billion, primarily due to lower average selling prices of wheat flour partially offset by increased wheat flour sales volumes and higher average selling prices and sales volumes for cocoa products. Cost of products sold decreased 11% to $57.8 billion, due principally to decreased agricultural commodity costs including the impact of changes in LIFO inventory valuations which reduced cost of products sold by $42 million in 2010 compared to $517 million in 2009. Manufacturing expenses decreased 1% or $60 million, primarily due to lower energy, chemical and fuel costs partially offset by higher employee related costs and a $124 million increase in depreciation and amortization expense. In 2010, manufacturing expenses included additional costs associated with the Companys new greenfield plants. Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased 1% to $1.4 billion, due principally to decreased provisions for doubtful accounts partially offset by increased expenses for legal, professional, and commercial services. Other (income) expense net improved $317 million primarily due to increased equity earnings of unconsolidated affiliates of $416 million, and decreased expense for the elimination of after tax mandatorily redeemable interests in consolidated subsidiaries. These increases were partially offset by pre tax charges of $75 million related to the early extinguishment of debt and $59 million for unrealized losses on interest rate swaps (for more information see Note 8 in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data). Equity earnings of unconsolidated affiliates in 2009 included a non cash charge of $275 million related to currency derivative losses of the Companys equity investee, Gruma S.A.B. de C.V. Income taxes decreased $146 million due to a lower effective income tax rate partially offset by higher pretax earnings. The Companys effective income tax rate during 2010 was 25.8%. In 2009, the effective income tax rate was 32.5% which included $158 million of income tax charges related to the partial restructuring of the holding company structure through which the Company holds a portion of its equity investment in Wilmar. Excluding these Wilmar charges, the Companys effective income tax rate for 2009 was 26.2%. For more information concerning Wilmar tax matters see Note 12 in Item 8. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Operating profit by segment is as follows: 2010 2009 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing & Origination $ 818 $ 767 $ 51 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel & Other 291 265 26 Asia 291 248 43 Total Oilseeds Processing 1,400 1,280 120 Corn Processing Sweeteners & Starches 529 500 29 Bioproducts 193 (315 ) 508 Total Corn Processing 722 185 537 Agricultural Services Merchandising & Handling 583 832 (249 ) Transportation 85 162 (77 ) Total Agricultural Services 668 994 (326 ) Other Wheat, Cocoa & Malt 403 51 352 Financial 46 (57 ) 103 Total Other 449 (6 ) 455 Total Segment Operating Profit 3,239 2,453 786 Corporate (see below) (654 ) 47 (701 ) Earnings Before Income Taxes $ 2,585 $ 2,500 $ 85 Corporate results are as follows: 2010 2009 Change (In millions) LIFO credit $ 42 $ 517 $ (475 ) Unallocated interest expense net (283 ) (192 ) (91 ) Unallocated corporate costs (266 ) (252 ) (14 ) Charges on early extinguishment of debt (75 ) (75 ) Unrealized losses on interest rate swaps (59 ) (59 ) Other (13 ) (26 ) 13 Total Corporate $ (654 ) $ 47 $ (701 ) Oilseeds Processing operating profit increased 9% to $1.4 billion. Crushing and origination results increased $51 million due to higher North American soybean crushing margins and favorable soft seed commodity positioning partially offset by lower soybean crushing margins in Europe and South America. Refining, packaging, biodiesel and other operating profit increased $26 million due primarily to higher South American biodiesel results and improved margins in Europe. Oilseeds processing results in Asia increased $43 million to $291 million due principally to improved equity earnings of Wilmar. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Corn Processing operating profit increased $537 million to $722 million. Bioproducts operating profit increased $508 million due to improved ethanol and lysine sales volumes and improved ethanol margins resulting from lower net corn costs and decreased manufacturing costs. Ethanol sales volumes increased due to favorable gasoline blending economics and increased merchandising activity. Sweeteners and starches operating profit increased $29 million due to lower net corn and manufacturing costs due principally to lower energy and chemical prices. These lower manufacturing costs were partially offset by lower average selling prices. Agricultural Services operating profit decreased $326 million to $668 million. Merchandising and handling results decreased $249 million. Enhanced volume and margin opportunities created by last years volatile commodity markets and tight credit markets did not recur. Volumes and margins in 2010 benefited from strong demand for U.S. soybean exports following the short South American 2009 crop. Transportation results decreased $77 million due to lower barge freight rates and decreased barge utilization levels resulting from weaker U.S. economic conditions and the late, extended North American harvest. Other operating profit increased $455 million to $449 million. Wheat, cocoa and malt operating profit increased $352 million due to improved equity earnings from the Companys investment in Gruma, improved wheat milling margins, and improved cocoa processing results. Financial operating profit increased $103 million due primarily to the absence of losses experienced last year from managed fund investments and captive insurance operations. Corporate results decreased $701 million. The effects of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations resulted in a credit of $42 million for the year ended June 30, 2010, compared to a credit of $517 million for the year ended June 30, 2009. Unallocated interest expense net increased $91 million reflecting a reduction in corporate interest income caused by lower short term interest rates and lower working capital requirements of the operating segments. In January 2010, the Company repurchased $500 million of long term debt which generated a $75 million pretax charge on early extinguishment of debt. In connection with a debt remarketing planned for 2011, the Company entered into interest rate swaps to fix the interest rate on a portion of the planned remarketing which result ed in $59 million of unrealized losses on interest rate swaps. 2009 Compared to 2008 As an agricultural commodity based business, the Company is subject to a variety of market factors which affect the Companys operating results. Net corn costs increased significantly in 2009 compared to 2008, negatively impacting ethanol margins, and, to a lesser extent, sweeteners and starches margins as the higher net corn costs were only partially offset by increased selling prices for sweeteners and starches. Additionally, lower demand for gasoline, decreased gasoline prices and excess ethanol industry capacity negatively impacted ethanol margins. Demand for agricultural commodities, freight, and other products was weaker during 2009 in line with the downturn in the global economy. Results were negatively impacted by decreased equity earnings in unconsolidated affiliates including significant non cash charges related to currency derivative losses incurred by the Companys equity investee, Gruma S.A.B. de C.V., and losses from the Companys managed fund investments. Earnings before income taxes for 2009 include a credit of $517 million from the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuation reserves, compared to a charge of $569 million in 2008. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Income taxes for 2009 include charges of $158 million resulting from the restructuring of a holding company in which the Company holds a portion of its equity investment in Wilmar. Analysis of Statements of Earnings Net sales and other operating income decreased 1% to $69.2 billion due to foreign exchange translation impacts and decreased sales volumes partially offset by higher average selling prices. Net sales and other operating income increased $3.0 billion due to higher average selling prices primarily related to higher underlying commodity costs, decreased $2.0 billion due to foreign exchange translation impacts, and decreased $1.6 billion due to lower sales volumes and other. Net sales and other operating income by segment are as follows: 2009 2008 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing & Origination $ 15,579 $ 14,477 $ 1,102 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel & Other 8,760 8,588 172 Asia 179 214 (35 ) Total Oilseeds Processing 24,518 23,279 1,239 Corn Processing Sweeteners & Starches 3,785 3,546 239 Bioproducts 3,938 3,591 347 Total Corn Processing 7,723 7,137 586 Agricultural Services Merchandising & Handling 31,342 33,749 (2,407 ) Transportation 242 219 23 Total Agricultural Services 31,584 33,968 (2,384 ) Other Wheat, Cocoa & Malt 5,272 5,335 (63 ) Financial 110 97 13 Total Other 5,382 5,432 (50 ) Total $ 69,207 $ 69,816 $ (609 ) Oilseeds Processing sales increased 5% to $24.5 billion due principally to increased sales volumes of merchandised oilseeds and biodiesel partially offset by lower sales volumes of vegetable oil and protein meal. Corn Processing sales increased 8% to $7.7 billion due principally to higher sales volumes of ethanol and higher average selling prices of sweeteners and starches, partially offset by lower average selling prices of ethanol. Agricultural Services sales decreased 7% to $31.6 billion due principally to lower sales volumes of grain. Other sales decreased 1% to $5.4 billion primarily due to the sale of the Companys malting business during the first quarter of fiscal year 2009 and lower average selling prices of wheat flour. Partially offsetting these decreases were higher average selling prices of cocoa products and increased chocolate sales volumes. Cost of products sold decreased 1% to $65.1 billion, in line with the decrease in net sales and other operating income. Cost of products sold decreased $856 million due principally to decreased sales volumes, decreased LIFO inventory valuations and approximately $1.9 billion from the impact of foreign currency translation, partially offset by increased agricultural commodity costs. Manufacturing expenses decreased $215 million primarily due to decreased energy and fuel costs. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Selling, general and administrative expenses of $1.4 billion were comparable to 2008. Decreased employee related costs and favorable impacts from foreign currency translation were offset by increases in provisions for doubtful accounts. Other (income) expense net decreased $348 million primarily due to decreased results from equity earnings of unconsolidated affiliates of $270 million, and decreased investment income. Equity earnings in unconsolidated affiliates included a non cash charge of $275 million of foreign exchange derivative losses incurred by the Companys equity investee, Gruma S.A.B. de C.V. Operating profit by segment is as follows: 2009 2008 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing & Origination $ 767 $ 727 $ 40 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel & Other 265 181 84 Asia 248 132 116 Total Oilseeds Processing 1,280 1,040 240 Corn Processing Sweeteners & Starches 500 557 (57 ) Bioproducts (315 ) 404 (719 ) Total Corn Processing 185 961 (776 ) Agricultural Services Merchandising & Handling 832 873 (41 ) Transportation 162 144 18 Total Agricultural Services 994 1,017 (23 ) Other Wheat, Cocoa & Malt 51 217 (166 ) Financial (57 ) 206 (263 ) Total Other (6 ) 423 (429 ) Total Segment Operating Profit 2,453 3,441 (988 ) Corporate (see below) 47 (847 ) 894 Earnings Before Income Taxes $ 2,500 $ 2,594 $ (94 ) Corporate results are as follows: 2009 2008 Change (In millions) LIFO credit (charge) $ 517 $ (569 ) $ 1,086 Interest expense (income) net (192 ) 49 (241 ) Corporate costs (252 ) (262 ) 10 Other (26 ) (65 ) 39 Total Corporate $ 47 $ (847 ) $ 894 Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Oilseeds Processing operating profit increased 23% to $1.3 billion. Crushing and origination results increased $40 million. Improved global crushing margins were partially offset by lower fertilizer sales volumes and margins and lower North American crushing volumes due to decreased demand for vegetable oil and protein meal. Refining, packaging, biodiesel and other results increased $84 million due principally to higher biodiesel sales volumes in South America and increased average margins for value added products. 2008 results for refining, packaging, biodiesel and other included asset abandonment charges of $27 million. Asia results increased $116 million due principally to the Companys share in improved operating results of Wilmar. Corn Processing operating profits decreased 81% to $185 million. Sweeteners and starches decreased $57 million due to the impact of higher net corn costs partially offset by higher average sweetener and starches selling prices. Bioproducts operating profit decreased $719 million for the year as ethanol and lysine margins declined significantly due to higher corn costs and lower average selling prices. Ethanol margins were also impacted by lower demand for gasoline, decreased gasoline prices, and excess ethanol industry capacity. Agricultural Services operating profits decreased 2% to $994 million. Merchandising and handling profit decreased $41 million. Merchandising margins moderated as demand for commodities slowed following the downturn in the global economy. Transportation results increased $18 million due to higher barge freight rates. Other operating profits decreased 101% to a loss of $6 million. Wheat, cocoa, and malt processing operating profit decreased $166 million for the year primarily due to equity losses from the Companys investment in Gruma, partially offset by improved cocoa and wheat processing margins. Financial operating profit decreased $263 million due to losses on managed fund investments compared to gains for the year ended June 30, 2008, increased captive insurance loss provisions and decreased interest income and lower marketable security gains of the Companys brokerage service business. Corporate results increased $894 million to $47 million, primarily due to the effects of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations which resulted in credits of $517 million for the year ended June 30, 2009, compared to $569 million of LIFO charges for the year ended June 30, 2008. Unallocated interest expense increased $241 million primarily due to higher long term debt interest expense and decreased interest income. Corporate interest income decreased due to lower short term interest rates and lower working capital requirements of the operating segments. The Companys effective tax rate during 2009 was 32.5% compared to 31.1% during 2008. Income taxes increased $4 million. Lower pre tax earnings and positive impacts from favorable changes in geographic mix of earnings, currency translation impacts in South America, lower tax rates in certain foreign jurisdictions, and return to provision adjustments, were offset by charges of $158 million resulting from the restructuring of a holding company in which the Company holds a portion of its equity investment in Wilmar. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Liquidity and Capital Resources A Company objective is to have sufficient liquidity, balance sheet strength, and financial flexibility to fund the operating and capital requirements of a capital intensive agricultural commodity based business. The primary source of funds to finance the Companys operations and capital expenditures is cash generated by operations. In addition, the Company maintains a commercial paper borrowing facility and has access to equity and debt capital from public and private sources in both domestic and international markets. At June 30, 2010, the Company had $1.4 billion of cash, cash equivalents, and short term marketable securities and a current ratio, defined as current assets divided by current liabilities, of 2.1 to 1. Included in working capital is $4.9 billion of readily marketable commodity inventories. Cash generated by operating activities decreased to $2.7 billion for the year compared to $5.3 billion last year due primarily to a $3.1 billion decrease in 2009 working capital requirements related to lower agricultural commodity market prices. Cash used in investing activities was $1.7 billion compared to $1.9 billion last year. Cash used in financing activities was $1.0 billion for the year compared to $3.2 billion last year due principally to a decrease in repayments of commercial paper borrowings part ially offset by the repurchase of $500 million of long term debt. At June 30, 2010, the Companys capital resources included net worth of $14.6 billion and lines of credit totaling $6.0 billion, of which $5.7 billion was unused. The Companys ratio of long term debt to total capital (the sum of the Companys long term debt and shareholders equity) was 32% at June 30, 2010 and 36% at June 30, 2009. This ratio is a measure of the Companys long term liquidity and is an indicator of financial flexibility. Of the Companys total lines of credit, $4.2 billion support a commercial paper borrowing facility, against which there were no borrowings at June 30, 2010. The Company has outstanding $1.15 billion principal amount of convertible senior notes. As of June 30, 2010, none of the conditions permitting conversion of these notes had been satisfied. The Company has purchased call options and warrants intended to reduce the potential shareholder dilution upon future conversion of the notes. As of June 30, 2010, the market price of the Companys common stock was not greater than the exercise price of the purchased call options or warrants related to the convertible senior notes. In June 2008, the Company issued $1.75 billion of debentures as a component of Equity Units (see Note 8 in Item 8). The debentures will be remarketed in 2011. The Equity Units are a combination of debt and forward contracts for the holder to purchase the Companys common stock. Each purchase contract obligates the holder to purchase from the Company, no later than June 1, 2011, for a price of $50 in cash, a certain number of shares, ranging from 1.0453 shares to 1.2544 shares, of the Companys common stock, based on a formula established in the contract. The Companys credit facilities and certain debentures require the Company to comply with specified financial and non financial covenants including maintenance of minimum tangible net worth as well as limitations related to incurring liens, secured debt, and certain other financing arrangements. The Company is in compliance with these covenants as of June 30, 2010. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements In the normal course of business, the Company enters into contracts and commitments which obligate the Company to make payments in the future. The following table sets forth the Companys significant future obligations by time period. Purchases include commodity based contracts entered into in the normal course of business, which are further described in Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, energy related purchase contracts entered into in the normal course of business, and other purchase obligations related to the Companys normal business activities. The following table does not include unrecognized income tax benefits of $84 million as at June 30, 2010, due to uncertainty of the timing of deductibility. Where applicable, information included in the Companys consolidated financial statements and notes is cross referenced in this table. Payments Due by Period Contractual Item 8 Note Less than 1 3 3 5 More than Obligations Reference Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years (In millions) Purchases Inventories $ 9,949 $ 9,508 $ 417 $ 6 $ 18 Energy 498 284 137 31 46 Other 409 143 208 56 2 Total purchases 10,856 9,935 762 93 66 Short term debt 374 374 Long term debt Note 8 7,174 344 428 1,076 5,326 Estimated interest payments 7,928 381 700 636 6,211 Operating leases Note 13 1,381 235 371 333 442 Estimated pension and other postretirement plan contributions (1) Note 14 150 45 17 21 67 Total $ 27,863 $ 11,314 $ 2,278 $ 2,159 $ 12,112 (1) The Company is unable to estimate the amount of pension contributions beyond fiscal year 2011. For more information concerning the Companys pension and other postretirement plans, see Note 14 in Item 8. At June 30, 2010, the Company estimates it will spend approximately $1.5 billion through calendar year 2013 to complete currently approved capital projects which are not included in the table above. The Company also has outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds of $459 million at June 30, 2010. In addition, the Company has entered into agreements, primarily debt guarantee agreements related to equity method investees, which could obligate the Company to make future payments. The Companys liability under these agreements arises only if the primary entity fails to perform its contractual obligation. The Company has collateral for a portion of these contingent obligations. At June 30, 2010, these contingent obligations totaled approximately $131 million. Amounts outstanding for the primary entity under these contingent obligations were $74 million at June 30, 2010. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Critical Accounting Policies The process of preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the carrying values of the Companys assets and liabilities as well as the recognition of revenues and expenses. These estimates and judgments are based on the Companys historical experience and managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Certain of the Companys accounting policies are considered critical, as these policies are important to the depiction of the Companys financial statements and require significant or complex judgment by management. Management has discussed with the Companys Audit Committee the development, selection, disclosure, and application of these critical accounting policies. Following are the accounting policies management considers critical to the Companys financial statements. Inventories and Derivatives Certain of the Companys merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, forward fixed price purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts are valued at estimated market values. These merchandisable agricultural commodities are freely traded, have quoted market prices, and may be sold without significant additional processing. Management estimates market value based on exchange quoted prices, adjusted for differences in local markets. Changes in the market values of these inventories and contracts are recognized in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. If management used different methods or factors to estimate market value, amounts reported as inventories and cost of products sold coul d differ materially. Additionally, if market conditions change subsequent to year end, amounts reported in future periods as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. The Company, from time to time, uses derivative contracts designated as cash flow hedges to fix the purchase price of anticipated volumes of commodities to be purchased and processed in a future month, to fix the purchase price of the Companys anticipated natural gas requirements for certain production facilities, and to fix the sales price of anticipated volumes of ethanol. The change in the market value of such derivative contracts has historically been, and is expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold and net sales and other operating income in th e statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. If it is determined that the derivative instruments used are no longer effective at offsetting changes in the price of the hedged item, then the changes in the market value of these exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts would be recorded in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. Employee Benefit Plans The Company provides substantially all domestic employees and employees at certain international subsidiaries with pension benefits. Eligible domestic employees with five or more years of service prior to January 1, 2009 participate in a defined benefit pension plan. Eligible domestic employees hired on or after January 1, 2009 (and eligible salaried employees with less than five years of service prior to January 1, 2009) participate in a cash balance pension formula. The Company provides eligible domestic employees who retire under qualifying conditions with access to postretirement health care, at full cost to the retiree (certain employees are grandfather ed into subsidized coverage). In order to measure the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans, management makes several estimates and assumptions, including interest rates used to discount certain liabilities, rates of return on assets set aside to fund these plans, rates of compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and anticipated future health care costs. These estimates and assumptions are based on the Companys historical experience combined with managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Management also uses third party actuaries to assist in measuring the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans. If management used different estimates and assumptions regarding these plans, the funded status of the plans could vary significantly, and the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Income Taxes The Company frequently faces challenges from domestic and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company records reserves for estimates of potential additional tax owed by the Company. As an example, a subsidiary of the Company received a tax assessment in the amount of $456 million (subject to variation in currency exchange rates) consisting of tax, penalty, and interest from the Brazilian Federal Revenue Service challenging the deductibility of commodity hedging losses incurred by the Company in 2004. The Company evaluated its tax position rega rding these hedging transactions and concluded, based in part upon advice from Brazilian legal counsel, that it was appropriate to recognize the tax benefits of these deductions (See Note 12 in Item 8 for additional information). Deferred tax assets represent items to be used as tax deductions or credits in future tax returns, and the related tax benefit has already been recognized in the Companys income statement. The realization of the Companys deferred tax assets is dependent upon future taxable income in specific tax jurisdictions, the timing and amount of which are uncertain. The Company evaluates all available positive and negative evidence including estimated future reversals of existing temporary differences, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies, and recent financial results. Valuation allowances related to these deferred tax assets have been established to the extent the realization of the tax benefit is not likely. To the extent the Company were to favorably resolve matters for which accruals have been established or be required to pay amounts in excess of the aforementioned reserves, the Companys effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be impacted. Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and affiliated corporate joint ventures accounted for on the equity method are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned factors may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and cash flows of the Compa nys assets in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its factories. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment, technology, and companies related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. The Company evaluates goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives for impairment annually. Assets are written down after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these assets, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Valuation of Marketable Securities and Investments in Affiliates The Company classifies the majority of its marketable securities as available for sale and carries these securities at fair value. The Company applies the equity method for investments in investees over which the Company has the ability to exercise significant influence. These investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings and are adjusted, where appropriate, for amortizable basis differences between the investment balance and the underlying net assets of the investee. For publicly traded securities, the fair value of the Companys investments is readily available based on quoted market prices. For non publicly traded securities, managements assessment of fair value is based on valuation methodologies including discounted cash flows and estima tes of sales proceeds. In the event of a decline in fair value of an investment below carrying value, management is required to determine if the decline in fair value is other than temporary. In evaluating the nature of a decline in the fair value of an investment, management considers the market conditions, trends of earnings, discounted cash flows, trading volumes, and other key measures of the investment as well as the Companys ability and intent to hold the investment. When such a decline in value is deemed to be other than temporary, an impairment loss is recognized in the current period operating results to the extent of the decline. See Notes 5 and 6 in Item 8 for information regarding the Companys marketable securities and investments in affiliates. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these marketable securities, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in: commodity market prices as they relate to the Companys net commodity position, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and prices of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to factors such as changes in weather conditions, disease, plantings, government programs and policies, competition, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. To reduce price risk caused by market fluctuations, the Company generally follows a policy of using exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts to minimize its net position of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories and forward cash purchase and sales contracts. The Company will also use exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the volatility of the relationship between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contracts defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company, from time to time, enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold or net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) A sensitivity analysis has been prepared to estimate the Companys exposure to market risk of its daily net commodity position. The Companys daily net commodity position consists of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, related purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts, including those contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements. The fair value of such daily net commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing each net position at quoted futures prices. Market risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in such prices. Actual results may differ. 2010 2009 Long/(Short) Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest position $ 429 $ 43 $ 845 $ 85 Lowest position (667 ) (67 ) (1,342 ) (134 ) Average position (190 ) (19 ) (392 ) (39 ) The change in fair value of the average position for 2010 compared to 2009 was principally the result of changes in average quantities underlying the daily net commodity position. Currencies The Company conducts its business in over 60 countries. For the majority of the Companys subsidiaries located outside the United States, the local currency is the functional currency. In order to reduce the risks associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, except for amounts permanently invested as described below, the Company follows a policy of entering into currency exchange contracts to mitigate its foreign currency risk related to transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currencies applicable to each of its various entities, primarily the Euro, British pound, Canadian dollar, and Brazilian real. The instruments used are forward contracts, swaps with banks, exchange traded futures contracts, and over the counter options. The changes in marke t value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $6.4 billion at June 30, 2010, and $6.6 billion at June 30, 2009. This decrease is due to the depreciation of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar partially offset by an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The potential loss in fair value, which would principally be recognized in Other Comprehensive Income, resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $639 million and $664 million for 2010 and 2009, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical .5% decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2010 2009 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 7,700 $ 8,103 Excess of fair value over carrying value 870 511 Market risk 289 310 The decrease in fair value of long term debt in 2010 resulted principally from the repurchase of $500 million in aggregate principal amount of the Companys outstanding debentures. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Operating profit by segment is as follows: 2010 2009 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing & Origination $ 818 $ 767 $ 51 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel & Other 291 265 26 Asia 291 248 43 Total Oilseeds Processing 1,400 1,280 120 Corn Processing Sweeteners & Starches 529 500 29 Bioproducts 193 (315 ) 508 Total Corn Processing 722 185 537 Agricultural Services Merchandising & Handling 583 832 (249 ) Transportation 85 162 (77 ) Total Agricultural Services 668 994 (326 ) Other Wheat, Cocoa & Malt 403 51 352 Financial 46 (57 ) 103 Total Other 449 (6 ) 455 Total Segment Operating Profit 3,239 2,453 786 Corporate (see below) (654 ) 47 (701 ) Earnings Before Income Taxes $ 2,585 $ 2,500 $ 85 Corporate results are as follows: 2010 2009 Change (In millions) LIFO credit $ 42 $ 517 $ (475 ) Unallocated interest expense net (283 ) (192 ) (91 ) Unallocated corporate costs (266 ) (252 ) (14 ) Charges on early extinguishment of debt (75 ) (75 ) Unrealized losses on interest rate swaps (59 ) (59 ) Other (13 ) (26 ) 13 Total Corporate $ (654 ) $ 47 $ (701 ) Oilseeds Processing operating profit increased 9% to $1.4 billion. Crushing and origination results increased $51 million due to higher North American soybean crushing margins and favorable soft seed commodity positioning partially offset by lower soybean crushing margins in Europe and South America. Refining, packaging, biodiesel and other operating profit increased $26 million due primarily to higher South American biodiesel results and improved margins in Europe. Oilseeds processing results in Asia increased $43 million to $291 million due principally to improved equity earnings of Wilmar. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Corn Processing operating profit increased $537 million to $722 million. Bioproducts operating profit increased $508 million due to improved ethanol and lysine sales volumes and improved ethanol margins resulting from lower net corn costs and decreased manufacturing costs. Ethanol sales volumes increased due to favorable gasoline blending economics and increased merchandising activity. Sweeteners and starches operating profit increased $29 million due to lower net corn and manufacturing costs due principally to lower energy and chemical prices. These lower manufacturing costs were partially offset by lower average selling prices. Agricultural Services operating profit decreased $326 million to $668 million. Merchandising and handling results decreased $249 million. Enhanced volume and margin opportunities created by last years volatile commodity markets and tight credit markets did not recur. Volumes and margins in 2010 benefited from strong demand for U.S. soybean exports following the short South American 2009 crop. Transportation results decreased $77 million due to lower barge freight rates and decreased barge utilization levels resulting from weaker U.S. economic conditions and the late, extended North American harvest. Other operating profit increased $455 million to $449 million. Wheat, cocoa and malt operating profit increased $352 million due to improved equity earnings from the Companys investment in Gruma, improved wheat milling margins, and improved cocoa processing results. Financial operating profit increased $103 million due primarily to the absence of losses experienced last year from managed fund investments and captive insurance operations. Corporate results decreased $701 million. The effects of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations resulted in a credit of $42 million for the year ended June 30, 2010, compared to a credit of $517 million for the year ended June 30, 2009. Unallocated interest expense net increased $91 million reflecting a reduction in corporate interest income caused by lower short term interest rates and lower working capital requirements of the operating segments. In January 2010, the Company repurchased $500 million of long term debt which generated a $75 million pretax charge on early extinguishment of debt. In connection with a debt remarketing planned for 2011, the Company entered into interest rate swaps to fix the interest rate on a portion of the planned remarketing which result ed in $59 million of unrealized losses on interest rate swaps. 2009 Compared to 2008 As an agricultural commodity based business, the Company is subject to a variety of market factors which affect the Companys operating results. Net corn costs increased significantly in 2009 compared to 2008, negatively impacting ethanol margins, and, to a lesser extent, sweeteners and starches margins as the higher net corn costs were only partially offset by increased selling prices for sweeteners and starches. Additionally, lower demand for gasoline, decreased gasoline prices and excess ethanol industry capacity negatively impacted ethanol margins. Demand for agricultural commodities, freight, and other products was weaker during 2009 in line with the downturn in the global economy. Results were negatively impacted by decreased equity earnings in unconsolidated affiliates including significant non cash charges related to currency derivative losses incurred by the Companys equity investee, Gruma S.A.B. de C.V., and losses from the Companys managed fund investments. Earnings before income taxes for 2009 include a credit of $517 million from the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuation reserves, compared to a charge of $569 million in 2008. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Income taxes for 2009 include charges of $158 million resulting from the restructuring of a holding company in which the Company holds a portion of its equity investment in Wilmar. Analysis of Statements of Earnings Net sales and other operating income decreased 1% to $69.2 billion due to foreign exchange translation impacts and decreased sales volumes partially offset by higher average selling prices. Net sales and other operating income increased $3.0 billion due to higher average selling prices primarily related to higher underlying commodity costs, decreased $2.0 billion due to foreign exchange translation impacts, and decreased $1.6 billion due to lower sales volumes and other. Net sales and other operating income by segment are as follows: 2009 2008 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing & Origination $ 15,579 $ 14,477 $ 1,102 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel & Other 8,760 8,588 172 Asia 179 214 (35 ) Total Oilseeds Processing 24,518 23,279 1,239 Corn Processing Sweeteners & Starches 3,785 3,546 239 Bioproducts 3,938 3,591 347 Total Corn Processing 7,723 7,137 586 Agricultural Services Merchandising & Handling 31,342 33,749 (2,407 ) Transportation 242 219 23 Total Agricultural Services 31,584 33,968 (2,384 ) Other Wheat, Cocoa & Malt 5,272 5,335 (63 ) Financial 110 97 13 Total Other 5,382 5,432 (50 ) Total $ 69,207 $ 69,816 $ (609 ) Oilseeds Processing sales increased 5% to $24.5 billion due principally to increased sales volumes of merchandised oilseeds and biodiesel partially offset by lower sales volumes of vegetable oil and protein meal. Corn Processing sales increased 8% to $7.7 billion due principally to higher sales volumes of ethanol and higher average selling prices of sweeteners and starches, partially offset by lower average selling prices of ethanol. Agricultural Services sales decreased 7% to $31.6 billion due principally to lower sales volumes of grain. Other sales decreased 1% to $5.4 billion primarily due to the sale of the Companys malting business during the first quarter of fiscal year 2009 and lower average selling prices of wheat flour. Partially offsetting these decreases were higher average selling prices of cocoa products and increased chocolate sales volumes. Cost of products sold decreased 1% to $65.1 billion, in line with the decrease in net sales and other operating income. Cost of products sold decreased $856 million due principally to decreased sales volumes, decreased LIFO inventory valuations and approximately $1.9 billion from the impact of foreign currency translation, partially offset by increased agricultural commodity costs. Manufacturing expenses decreased $215 million primarily due to decreased energy and fuel costs. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Selling, general and administrative expenses of $1.4 billion were comparable to 2008. Decreased employee related costs and favorable impacts from foreign currency translation were offset by increases in provisions for doubtful accounts. Other (income) expense net decreased $348 million primarily due to decreased results from equity earnings of unconsolidated affiliates of $270 million, and decreased investment income. Equity earnings in unconsolidated affiliates included a non cash charge of $275 million of foreign exchange derivative losses incurred by the Companys equity investee, Gruma S.A.B. de C.V. Operating profit by segment is as follows: 2009 2008 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing & Origination $ 767 $ 727 $ 40 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel & Other 265 181 84 Asia 248 132 116 Total Oilseeds Processing 1,280 1,040 240 Corn Processing Sweeteners & Starches 500 557 (57 ) Bioproducts (315 ) 404 (719 ) Total Corn Processing 185 961 (776 ) Agricultural Services Merchandising & Handling 832 873 (41 ) Transportation 162 144 18 Total Agricultural Services 994 1,017 (23 ) Other Wheat, Cocoa & Malt 51 217 (166 ) Financial (57 ) 206 (263 ) Total Other (6 ) 423 (429 ) Total Segment Operating Profit 2,453 3,441 (988 ) Corporate (see below) 47 (847 ) 894 Earnings Before Income Taxes $ 2,500 $ 2,594 $ (94 ) Corporate results are as follows: 2009 2008 Change (In millions) LIFO credit (charge) $ 517 $ (569 ) $ 1,086 Interest expense (income) net (192 ) 49 (241 ) Corporate costs (252 ) (262 ) 10 Other (26 ) (65 ) 39 Total Corporate $ 47 $ (847 ) $ 894 Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Oilseeds Processing operating profit increased 23% to $1.3 billion. Crushing and origination results increased $40 million. Improved global crushing margins were partially offset by lower fertilizer sales volumes and margins and lower North American crushing volumes due to decreased demand for vegetable oil and protein meal. Refining, packaging, biodiesel and other results increased $84 million due principally to higher biodiesel sales volumes in South America and increased average margins for value added products. 2008 results for refining, packaging, biodiesel and other included asset abandonment charges of $27 million. Asia results increased $116 million due principally to the Companys share in improved operating results of Wilmar. Corn Processing operating profits decreased 81% to $185 million. Sweeteners and starches decreased $57 million due to the impact of higher net corn costs partially offset by higher average sweetener and starches selling prices. Bioproducts operating profit decreased $719 million for the year as ethanol and lysine margins declined significantly due to higher corn costs and lower average selling prices. Ethanol margins were also impacted by lower demand for gasoline, decreased gasoline prices, and excess ethanol industry capacity. Agricultural Services operating profits decreased 2% to $994 million. Merchandising and handling profit decreased $41 million. Merchandising margins moderated as demand for commodities slowed following the downturn in the global economy. Transportation results increased $18 million due to higher barge freight rates. Other operating profits decreased 101% to a loss of $6 million. Wheat, cocoa, and malt processing operating profit decreased $166 million for the year primarily due to equity losses from the Companys investment in Gruma, partially offset by improved cocoa and wheat processing margins. Financial operating profit decreased $263 million due to losses on managed fund investments compared to gains for the year ended June 30, 2008, increased captive insurance loss provisions and decreased interest income and lower marketable security gains of the Companys brokerage service business. Corporate results increased $894 million to $47 million, primarily due to the effects of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations which resulted in credits of $517 million for the year ended June 30, 2009, compared to $569 million of LIFO charges for the year ended June 30, 2008. Unallocated interest expense increased $241 million primarily due to higher long term debt interest expense and decreased interest income. Corporate interest income decreased due to lower short term interest rates and lower working capital requirements of the operating segments. The Companys effective tax rate during 2009 was 32.5% compared to 31.1% during 2008. Income taxes increased $4 million. Lower pre tax earnings and positive impacts from favorable changes in geographic mix of earnings, currency translation impacts in South America, lower tax rates in certain foreign jurisdictions, and return to provision adjustments, were offset by charges of $158 million resulting from the restructuring of a holding company in which the Company holds a portion of its equity investment in Wilmar. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Liquidity and Capital Resources A Company objective is to have sufficient liquidity, balance sheet strength, and financial flexibility to fund the operating and capital requirements of a capital intensive agricultural commodity based business. The primary source of funds to finance the Companys operations and capital expenditures is cash generated by operations. In addition, the Company maintains a commercial paper borrowing facility and has access to equity and debt capital from public and private sources in both domestic and international markets. At June 30, 2010, the Company had $1.4 billion of cash, cash equivalents, and short term marketable securities and a current ratio, defined as current assets divided by current liabilities, of 2.1 to 1. Included in working capital is $4.9 billion of readily marketable commodity inventories. Cash generated by operating activities decreased to $2.7 billion for the year compared to $5.3 billion last year due primarily to a $3.1 billion decrease in 2009 working capital requirements related to lower agricultural commodity market prices. Cash used in investing activities was $1.7 billion compared to $1.9 billion last year. Cash used in financing activities was $1.0 billion for the year compared to $3.2 billion last year due principally to a decrease in repayments of commercial paper borrowings part ially offset by the repurchase of $500 million of long term debt. At June 30, 2010, the Companys capital resources included net worth of $14.6 billion and lines of credit totaling $6.0 billion, of which $5.7 billion was unused. The Companys ratio of long term debt to total capital (the sum of the Companys long term debt and shareholders equity) was 32% at June 30, 2010 and 36% at June 30, 2009. This ratio is a measure of the Companys long term liquidity and is an indicator of financial flexibility. Of the Companys total lines of credit, $4.2 billion support a commercial paper borrowing facility, against which there were no borrowings at June 30, 2010. The Company has outstanding $1.15 billion principal amount of convertible senior notes. As of June 30, 2010, none of the conditions permitting conversion of these notes had been satisfied. The Company has purchased call options and warrants intended to reduce the potential shareholder dilution upon future conversion of the notes. As of June 30, 2010, the market price of the Companys common stock was not greater than the exercise price of the purchased call options or warrants related to the convertible senior notes. In June 2008, the Company issued $1.75 billion of debentures as a component of Equity Units (see Note 8 in Item 8). The debentures will be remarketed in 2011. The Equity Units are a combination of debt and forward contracts for the holder to purchase the Companys common stock. Each purchase contract obligates the holder to purchase from the Company, no later than June 1, 2011, for a price of $50 in cash, a certain number of shares, ranging from 1.0453 shares to 1.2544 shares, of the Companys common stock, based on a formula established in the contract. The Companys credit facilities and certain debentures require the Company to comply with specified financial and non financial covenants including maintenance of minimum tangible net worth as well as limitations related to incurring liens, secured debt, and certain other financing arrangements. The Company is in compliance with these covenants as of June 30, 2010. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements In the normal course of business, the Company enters into contracts and commitments which obligate the Company to make payments in the future. The following table sets forth the Companys significant future obligations by time period. Purchases include commodity based contracts entered into in the normal course of business, which are further described in Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, energy related purchase contracts entered into in the normal course of business, and other purchase obligations related to the Companys normal business activities. The following table does not include unrecognized income tax benefits of $84 million as at June 30, 2010, due to uncertainty of the timing of deductibility. Where applicable, information included in the Companys consolidated financial statements and notes is cross referenced in this table. Payments Due by Period Contractual Item 8 Note Less than 1 3 3 5 More than Obligations Reference Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years (In millions) Purchases Inventories $ 9,949 $ 9,508 $ 417 $ 6 $ 18 Energy 498 284 137 31 46 Other 409 143 208 56 2 Total purchases 10,856 9,935 762 93 66 Short term debt 374 374 Long term debt Note 8 7,174 344 428 1,076 5,326 Estimated interest payments 7,928 381 700 636 6,211 Operating leases Note 13 1,381 235 371 333 442 Estimated pension and other postretirement plan contributions (1) Note 14 150 45 17 21 67 Total $ 27,863 $ 11,314 $ 2,278 $ 2,159 $ 12,112 (1) The Company is unable to estimate the amount of pension contributions beyond fiscal year 2011. For more information concerning the Companys pension and other postretirement plans, see Note 14 in Item 8. At June 30, 2010, the Company estimates it will spend approximately $1.5 billion through calendar year 2013 to complete currently approved capital projects which are not included in the table above. The Company also has outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds of $459 million at June 30, 2010. In addition, the Company has entered into agreements, primarily debt guarantee agreements related to equity method investees, which could obligate the Company to make future payments. The Companys liability under these agreements arises only if the primary entity fails to perform its contractual obligation. The Company has collateral for a portion of these contingent obligations. At June 30, 2010, these contingent obligations totaled approximately $131 million. Amounts outstanding for the primary entity under these contingent obligations were $74 million at June 30, 2010. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Critical Accounting Policies The process of preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the carrying values of the Companys assets and liabilities as well as the recognition of revenues and expenses. These estimates and judgments are based on the Companys historical experience and managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Certain of the Companys accounting policies are considered critical, as these policies are important to the depiction of the Companys financial statements and require significant or complex judgment by management. Management has discussed with the Companys Audit Committee the development, selection, disclosure, and application of these critical accounting policies. Following are the accounting policies management considers critical to the Companys financial statements. Inventories and Derivatives Certain of the Companys merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, forward fixed price purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts are valued at estimated market values. These merchandisable agricultural commodities are freely traded, have quoted market prices, and may be sold without significant additional processing. Management estimates market value based on exchange quoted prices, adjusted for differences in local markets. Changes in the market values of these inventories and contracts are recognized in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. If management used different methods or factors to estimate market value, amounts reported as inventories and cost of products sold coul d differ materially. Additionally, if market conditions change subsequent to year end, amounts reported in future periods as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. The Company, from time to time, uses derivative contracts designated as cash flow hedges to fix the purchase price of anticipated volumes of commodities to be purchased and processed in a future month, to fix the purchase price of the Companys anticipated natural gas requirements for certain production facilities, and to fix the sales price of anticipated volumes of ethanol. The change in the market value of such derivative contracts has historically been, and is expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold and net sales and other operating income in th e statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. If it is determined that the derivative instruments used are no longer effective at offsetting changes in the price of the hedged item, then the changes in the market value of these exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts would be recorded in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. Employee Benefit Plans The Company provides substantially all domestic employees and employees at certain international subsidiaries with pension benefits. Eligible domestic employees with five or more years of service prior to January 1, 2009 participate in a defined benefit pension plan. Eligible domestic employees hired on or after January 1, 2009 (and eligible salaried employees with less than five years of service prior to January 1, 2009) participate in a cash balance pension formula. The Company provides eligible domestic employees who retire under qualifying conditions with access to postretirement health care, at full cost to the retiree (certain employees are grandfather ed into subsidized coverage). In order to measure the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans, management makes several estimates and assumptions, including interest rates used to discount certain liabilities, rates of return on assets set aside to fund these plans, rates of compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and anticipated future health care costs. These estimates and assumptions are based on the Companys historical experience combined with managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Management also uses third party actuaries to assist in measuring the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans. If management used different estimates and assumptions regarding these plans, the funded status of the plans could vary significantly, and the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Income Taxes The Company frequently faces challenges from domestic and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company records reserves for estimates of potential additional tax owed by the Company. As an example, a subsidiary of the Company received a tax assessment in the amount of $456 million (subject to variation in currency exchange rates) consisting of tax, penalty, and interest from the Brazilian Federal Revenue Service challenging the deductibility of commodity hedging losses incurred by the Company in 2004. The Company evaluated its tax position rega rding these hedging transactions and concluded, based in part upon advice from Brazilian legal counsel, that it was appropriate to recognize the tax benefits of these deductions (See Note 12 in Item 8 for additional information). Deferred tax assets represent items to be used as tax deductions or credits in future tax returns, and the related tax benefit has already been recognized in the Companys income statement. The realization of the Companys deferred tax assets is dependent upon future taxable income in specific tax jurisdictions, the timing and amount of which are uncertain. The Company evaluates all available positive and negative evidence including estimated future reversals of existing temporary differences, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies, and recent financial results. Valuation allowances related to these deferred tax assets have been established to the extent the realization of the tax benefit is not likely. To the extent the Company were to favorably resolve matters for which accruals have been established or be required to pay amounts in excess of the aforementioned reserves, the Companys effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be impacted. Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and affiliated corporate joint ventures accounted for on the equity method are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned factors may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and cash flows of the Compa nys assets in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its factories. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment, technology, and companies related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. The Company evaluates goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives for impairment annually. Assets are written down after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these assets, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Valuation of Marketable Securities and Investments in Affiliates The Company classifies the majority of its marketable securities as available for sale and carries these securities at fair value. The Company applies the equity method for investments in investees over which the Company has the ability to exercise significant influence. These investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings and are adjusted, where appropriate, for amortizable basis differences between the investment balance and the underlying net assets of the investee. For publicly traded securities, the fair value of the Companys investments is readily available based on quoted market prices. For non publicly traded securities, managements assessment of fair value is based on valuation methodologies including discounted cash flows and estima tes of sales proceeds. In the event of a decline in fair value of an investment below carrying value, management is required to determine if the decline in fair value is other than temporary. In evaluating the nature of a decline in the fair value of an investment, management considers the market conditions, trends of earnings, discounted cash flows, trading volumes, and other key measures of the investment as well as the Companys ability and intent to hold the investment. When such a decline in value is deemed to be other than temporary, an impairment loss is recognized in the current period operating results to the extent of the decline. See Notes 5 and 6 in Item 8 for information regarding the Companys marketable securities and investments in affiliates. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these marketable securities, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in: commodity market prices as they relate to the Companys net commodity position, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and prices of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to factors such as changes in weather conditions, disease, plantings, government programs and policies, competition, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. To reduce price risk caused by market fluctuations, the Company generally follows a policy of using exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts to minimize its net position of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories and forward cash purchase and sales contracts. The Company will also use exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the volatility of the relationship between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contracts defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company, from time to time, enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold or net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) A sensitivity analysis has been prepared to estimate the Companys exposure to market risk of its daily net commodity position. The Companys daily net commodity position consists of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, related purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts, including those contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements. The fair value of such daily net commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing each net position at quoted futures prices. Market risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in such prices. Actual results may differ. 2010 2009 Long/(Short) Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest position $ 429 $ 43 $ 845 $ 85 Lowest position (667 ) (67 ) (1,342 ) (134 ) Average position (190 ) (19 ) (392 ) (39 ) The change in fair value of the average position for 2010 compared to 2009 was principally the result of changes in average quantities underlying the daily net commodity position. Currencies The Company conducts its business in over 60 countries. For the majority of the Companys subsidiaries located outside the United States, the local currency is the functional currency. In order to reduce the risks associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, except for amounts permanently invested as described below, the Company follows a policy of entering into currency exchange contracts to mitigate its foreign currency risk related to transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currencies applicable to each of its various entities, primarily the Euro, British pound, Canadian dollar, and Brazilian real. The instruments used are forward contracts, swaps with banks, exchange traded futures contracts, and over the counter options. The changes in marke t value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $6.4 billion at June 30, 2010, and $6.6 billion at June 30, 2009. This decrease is due to the depreciation of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar partially offset by an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The potential loss in fair value, which would principally be recognized in Other Comprehensive Income, resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $639 million and $664 million for 2010 and 2009, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical .5% decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2010 2009 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 7,700 $ 8,103 Excess of fair value over carrying value 870 511 Market risk 289 310 The decrease in fair value of long term debt in 2010 resulted principally from the repurchase of $500 million in aggregate principal amount of the Companys outstanding debentures. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Corn Processing operating profit increased $537 million to $722 million. Bioproducts operating profit increased $508 million due to improved ethanol and lysine sales volumes and improved ethanol margins resulting from lower net corn costs and decreased manufacturing costs. Ethanol sales volumes increased due to favorable gasoline blending economics and increased merchandising activity. Sweeteners and starches operating profit increased $29 million due to lower net corn and manufacturing costs due principally to lower energy and chemical prices. These lower manufacturing costs were partially offset by lower average selling prices. Agricultural Services operating profit decreased $326 million to $668 million. Merchandising and handling results decreased $249 million. Enhanced volume and margin opportunities created by last years volatile commodity markets and tight credit markets did not recur. Volumes and margins in 2010 benefited from strong demand for U.S. soybean exports following the short South American 2009 crop. Transportation results decreased $77 million due to lower barge freight rates and decreased barge utilization levels resulting from weaker U.S. economic conditions and the late, extended North American harvest. Other operating profit increased $455 million to $449 million. Wheat, cocoa and malt operating profit increased $352 million due to improved equity earnings from the Companys investment in Gruma, improved wheat milling margins, and improved cocoa processing results. Financial operating profit increased $103 million due primarily to the absence of losses experienced last year from managed fund investments and captive insurance operations. Corporate results decreased $701 million. The effects of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations resulted in a credit of $42 million for the year ended June 30, 2010, compared to a credit of $517 million for the year ended June 30, 2009. Unallocated interest expense net increased $91 million reflecting a reduction in corporate interest income caused by lower short term interest rates and lower working capital requirements of the operating segments. In January 2010, the Company repurchased $500 million of long term debt which generated a $75 million pretax charge on early extinguishment of debt. In connection with a debt remarketing planned for 2011, the Company entered into interest rate swaps to fix the interest rate on a portion of the planned remarketing which result ed in $59 million of unrealized losses on interest rate swaps. 2009 Compared to 2008 As an agricultural commodity based business, the Company is subject to a variety of market factors which affect the Companys operating results. Net corn costs increased significantly in 2009 compared to 2008, negatively impacting ethanol margins, and, to a lesser extent, sweeteners and starches margins as the higher net corn costs were only partially offset by increased selling prices for sweeteners and starches. Additionally, lower demand for gasoline, decreased gasoline prices and excess ethanol industry capacity negatively impacted ethanol margins. Demand for agricultural commodities, freight, and other products was weaker during 2009 in line with the downturn in the global economy. Results were negatively impacted by decreased equity earnings in unconsolidated affiliates including significant non cash charges related to currency derivative losses incurred by the Companys equity investee, Gruma S.A.B. de C.V., and losses from the Companys managed fund investments. Earnings before income taxes for 2009 include a credit of $517 million from the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuation reserves, compared to a charge of $569 million in 2008. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Income taxes for 2009 include charges of $158 million resulting from the restructuring of a holding company in which the Company holds a portion of its equity investment in Wilmar. Analysis of Statements of Earnings Net sales and other operating income decreased 1% to $69.2 billion due to foreign exchange translation impacts and decreased sales volumes partially offset by higher average selling prices. Net sales and other operating income increased $3.0 billion due to higher average selling prices primarily related to higher underlying commodity costs, decreased $2.0 billion due to foreign exchange translation impacts, and decreased $1.6 billion due to lower sales volumes and other. Net sales and other operating income by segment are as follows: 2009 2008 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing & Origination $ 15,579 $ 14,477 $ 1,102 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel & Other 8,760 8,588 172 Asia 179 214 (35 ) Total Oilseeds Processing 24,518 23,279 1,239 Corn Processing Sweeteners & Starches 3,785 3,546 239 Bioproducts 3,938 3,591 347 Total Corn Processing 7,723 7,137 586 Agricultural Services Merchandising & Handling 31,342 33,749 (2,407 ) Transportation 242 219 23 Total Agricultural Services 31,584 33,968 (2,384 ) Other Wheat, Cocoa & Malt 5,272 5,335 (63 ) Financial 110 97 13 Total Other 5,382 5,432 (50 ) Total $ 69,207 $ 69,816 $ (609 ) Oilseeds Processing sales increased 5% to $24.5 billion due principally to increased sales volumes of merchandised oilseeds and biodiesel partially offset by lower sales volumes of vegetable oil and protein meal. Corn Processing sales increased 8% to $7.7 billion due principally to higher sales volumes of ethanol and higher average selling prices of sweeteners and starches, partially offset by lower average selling prices of ethanol. Agricultural Services sales decreased 7% to $31.6 billion due principally to lower sales volumes of grain. Other sales decreased 1% to $5.4 billion primarily due to the sale of the Companys malting business during the first quarter of fiscal year 2009 and lower average selling prices of wheat flour. Partially offsetting these decreases were higher average selling prices of cocoa products and increased chocolate sales volumes. Cost of products sold decreased 1% to $65.1 billion, in line with the decrease in net sales and other operating income. Cost of products sold decreased $856 million due principally to decreased sales volumes, decreased LIFO inventory valuations and approximately $1.9 billion from the impact of foreign currency translation, partially offset by increased agricultural commodity costs. Manufacturing expenses decreased $215 million primarily due to decreased energy and fuel costs. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Selling, general and administrative expenses of $1.4 billion were comparable to 2008. Decreased employee related costs and favorable impacts from foreign currency translation were offset by increases in provisions for doubtful accounts. Other (income) expense net decreased $348 million primarily due to decreased results from equity earnings of unconsolidated affiliates of $270 million, and decreased investment income. Equity earnings in unconsolidated affiliates included a non cash charge of $275 million of foreign exchange derivative losses incurred by the Companys equity investee, Gruma S.A.B. de C.V. Operating profit by segment is as follows: 2009 2008 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing & Origination $ 767 $ 727 $ 40 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel & Other 265 181 84 Asia 248 132 116 Total Oilseeds Processing 1,280 1,040 240 Corn Processing Sweeteners & Starches 500 557 (57 ) Bioproducts (315 ) 404 (719 ) Total Corn Processing 185 961 (776 ) Agricultural Services Merchandising & Handling 832 873 (41 ) Transportation 162 144 18 Total Agricultural Services 994 1,017 (23 ) Other Wheat, Cocoa & Malt 51 217 (166 ) Financial (57 ) 206 (263 ) Total Other (6 ) 423 (429 ) Total Segment Operating Profit 2,453 3,441 (988 ) Corporate (see below) 47 (847 ) 894 Earnings Before Income Taxes $ 2,500 $ 2,594 $ (94 ) Corporate results are as follows: 2009 2008 Change (In millions) LIFO credit (charge) $ 517 $ (569 ) $ 1,086 Interest expense (income) net (192 ) 49 (241 ) Corporate costs (252 ) (262 ) 10 Other (26 ) (65 ) 39 Total Corporate $ 47 $ (847 ) $ 894 Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Oilseeds Processing operating profit increased 23% to $1.3 billion. Crushing and origination results increased $40 million. Improved global crushing margins were partially offset by lower fertilizer sales volumes and margins and lower North American crushing volumes due to decreased demand for vegetable oil and protein meal. Refining, packaging, biodiesel and other results increased $84 million due principally to higher biodiesel sales volumes in South America and increased average margins for value added products. 2008 results for refining, packaging, biodiesel and other included asset abandonment charges of $27 million. Asia results increased $116 million due principally to the Companys share in improved operating results of Wilmar. Corn Processing operating profits decreased 81% to $185 million. Sweeteners and starches decreased $57 million due to the impact of higher net corn costs partially offset by higher average sweetener and starches selling prices. Bioproducts operating profit decreased $719 million for the year as ethanol and lysine margins declined significantly due to higher corn costs and lower average selling prices. Ethanol margins were also impacted by lower demand for gasoline, decreased gasoline prices, and excess ethanol industry capacity. Agricultural Services operating profits decreased 2% to $994 million. Merchandising and handling profit decreased $41 million. Merchandising margins moderated as demand for commodities slowed following the downturn in the global economy. Transportation results increased $18 million due to higher barge freight rates. Other operating profits decreased 101% to a loss of $6 million. Wheat, cocoa, and malt processing operating profit decreased $166 million for the year primarily due to equity losses from the Companys investment in Gruma, partially offset by improved cocoa and wheat processing margins. Financial operating profit decreased $263 million due to losses on managed fund investments compared to gains for the year ended June 30, 2008, increased captive insurance loss provisions and decreased interest income and lower marketable security gains of the Companys brokerage service business. Corporate results increased $894 million to $47 million, primarily due to the effects of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations which resulted in credits of $517 million for the year ended June 30, 2009, compared to $569 million of LIFO charges for the year ended June 30, 2008. Unallocated interest expense increased $241 million primarily due to higher long term debt interest expense and decreased interest income. Corporate interest income decreased due to lower short term interest rates and lower working capital requirements of the operating segments. The Companys effective tax rate during 2009 was 32.5% compared to 31.1% during 2008. Income taxes increased $4 million. Lower pre tax earnings and positive impacts from favorable changes in geographic mix of earnings, currency translation impacts in South America, lower tax rates in certain foreign jurisdictions, and return to provision adjustments, were offset by charges of $158 million resulting from the restructuring of a holding company in which the Company holds a portion of its equity investment in Wilmar. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Liquidity and Capital Resources A Company objective is to have sufficient liquidity, balance sheet strength, and financial flexibility to fund the operating and capital requirements of a capital intensive agricultural commodity based business. The primary source of funds to finance the Companys operations and capital expenditures is cash generated by operations. In addition, the Company maintains a commercial paper borrowing facility and has access to equity and debt capital from public and private sources in both domestic and international markets. At June 30, 2010, the Company had $1.4 billion of cash, cash equivalents, and short term marketable securities and a current ratio, defined as current assets divided by current liabilities, of 2.1 to 1. Included in working capital is $4.9 billion of readily marketable commodity inventories. Cash generated by operating activities decreased to $2.7 billion for the year compared to $5.3 billion last year due primarily to a $3.1 billion decrease in 2009 working capital requirements related to lower agricultural commodity market prices. Cash used in investing activities was $1.7 billion compared to $1.9 billion last year. Cash used in financing activities was $1.0 billion for the year compared to $3.2 billion last year due principally to a decrease in repayments of commercial paper borrowings part ially offset by the repurchase of $500 million of long term debt. At June 30, 2010, the Companys capital resources included net worth of $14.6 billion and lines of credit totaling $6.0 billion, of which $5.7 billion was unused. The Companys ratio of long term debt to total capital (the sum of the Companys long term debt and shareholders equity) was 32% at June 30, 2010 and 36% at June 30, 2009. This ratio is a measure of the Companys long term liquidity and is an indicator of financial flexibility. Of the Companys total lines of credit, $4.2 billion support a commercial paper borrowing facility, against which there were no borrowings at June 30, 2010. The Company has outstanding $1.15 billion principal amount of convertible senior notes. As of June 30, 2010, none of the conditions permitting conversion of these notes had been satisfied. The Company has purchased call options and warrants intended to reduce the potential shareholder dilution upon future conversion of the notes. As of June 30, 2010, the market price of the Companys common stock was not greater than the exercise price of the purchased call options or warrants related to the convertible senior notes. In June 2008, the Company issued $1.75 billion of debentures as a component of Equity Units (see Note 8 in Item 8). The debentures will be remarketed in 2011. The Equity Units are a combination of debt and forward contracts for the holder to purchase the Companys common stock. Each purchase contract obligates the holder to purchase from the Company, no later than June 1, 2011, for a price of $50 in cash, a certain number of shares, ranging from 1.0453 shares to 1.2544 shares, of the Companys common stock, based on a formula established in the contract. The Companys credit facilities and certain debentures require the Company to comply with specified financial and non financial covenants including maintenance of minimum tangible net worth as well as limitations related to incurring liens, secured debt, and certain other financing arrangements. The Company is in compliance with these covenants as of June 30, 2010. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements In the normal course of business, the Company enters into contracts and commitments which obligate the Company to make payments in the future. The following table sets forth the Companys significant future obligations by time period. Purchases include commodity based contracts entered into in the normal course of business, which are further described in Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, energy related purchase contracts entered into in the normal course of business, and other purchase obligations related to the Companys normal business activities. The following table does not include unrecognized income tax benefits of $84 million as at June 30, 2010, due to uncertainty of the timing of deductibility. Where applicable, information included in the Companys consolidated financial statements and notes is cross referenced in this table. Payments Due by Period Contractual Item 8 Note Less than 1 3 3 5 More than Obligations Reference Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years (In millions) Purchases Inventories $ 9,949 $ 9,508 $ 417 $ 6 $ 18 Energy 498 284 137 31 46 Other 409 143 208 56 2 Total purchases 10,856 9,935 762 93 66 Short term debt 374 374 Long term debt Note 8 7,174 344 428 1,076 5,326 Estimated interest payments 7,928 381 700 636 6,211 Operating leases Note 13 1,381 235 371 333 442 Estimated pension and other postretirement plan contributions (1) Note 14 150 45 17 21 67 Total $ 27,863 $ 11,314 $ 2,278 $ 2,159 $ 12,112 (1) The Company is unable to estimate the amount of pension contributions beyond fiscal year 2011. For more information concerning the Companys pension and other postretirement plans, see Note 14 in Item 8. At June 30, 2010, the Company estimates it will spend approximately $1.5 billion through calendar year 2013 to complete currently approved capital projects which are not included in the table above. The Company also has outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds of $459 million at June 30, 2010. In addition, the Company has entered into agreements, primarily debt guarantee agreements related to equity method investees, which could obligate the Company to make future payments. The Companys liability under these agreements arises only if the primary entity fails to perform its contractual obligation. The Company has collateral for a portion of these contingent obligations. At June 30, 2010, these contingent obligations totaled approximately $131 million. Amounts outstanding for the primary entity under these contingent obligations were $74 million at June 30, 2010. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Critical Accounting Policies The process of preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the carrying values of the Companys assets and liabilities as well as the recognition of revenues and expenses. These estimates and judgments are based on the Companys historical experience and managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Certain of the Companys accounting policies are considered critical, as these policies are important to the depiction of the Companys financial statements and require significant or complex judgment by management. Management has discussed with the Companys Audit Committee the development, selection, disclosure, and application of these critical accounting policies. Following are the accounting policies management considers critical to the Companys financial statements. Inventories and Derivatives Certain of the Companys merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, forward fixed price purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts are valued at estimated market values. These merchandisable agricultural commodities are freely traded, have quoted market prices, and may be sold without significant additional processing. Management estimates market value based on exchange quoted prices, adjusted for differences in local markets. Changes in the market values of these inventories and contracts are recognized in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. If management used different methods or factors to estimate market value, amounts reported as inventories and cost of products sold coul d differ materially. Additionally, if market conditions change subsequent to year end, amounts reported in future periods as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. The Company, from time to time, uses derivative contracts designated as cash flow hedges to fix the purchase price of anticipated volumes of commodities to be purchased and processed in a future month, to fix the purchase price of the Companys anticipated natural gas requirements for certain production facilities, and to fix the sales price of anticipated volumes of ethanol. The change in the market value of such derivative contracts has historically been, and is expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold and net sales and other operating income in th e statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. If it is determined that the derivative instruments used are no longer effective at offsetting changes in the price of the hedged item, then the changes in the market value of these exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts would be recorded in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. Employee Benefit Plans The Company provides substantially all domestic employees and employees at certain international subsidiaries with pension benefits. Eligible domestic employees with five or more years of service prior to January 1, 2009 participate in a defined benefit pension plan. Eligible domestic employees hired on or after January 1, 2009 (and eligible salaried employees with less than five years of service prior to January 1, 2009) participate in a cash balance pension formula. The Company provides eligible domestic employees who retire under qualifying conditions with access to postretirement health care, at full cost to the retiree (certain employees are grandfather ed into subsidized coverage). In order to measure the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans, management makes several estimates and assumptions, including interest rates used to discount certain liabilities, rates of return on assets set aside to fund these plans, rates of compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and anticipated future health care costs. These estimates and assumptions are based on the Companys historical experience combined with managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Management also uses third party actuaries to assist in measuring the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans. If management used different estimates and assumptions regarding these plans, the funded status of the plans could vary significantly, and the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Income Taxes The Company frequently faces challenges from domestic and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company records reserves for estimates of potential additional tax owed by the Company. As an example, a subsidiary of the Company received a tax assessment in the amount of $456 million (subject to variation in currency exchange rates) consisting of tax, penalty, and interest from the Brazilian Federal Revenue Service challenging the deductibility of commodity hedging losses incurred by the Company in 2004. The Company evaluated its tax position rega rding these hedging transactions and concluded, based in part upon advice from Brazilian legal counsel, that it was appropriate to recognize the tax benefits of these deductions (See Note 12 in Item 8 for additional information). Deferred tax assets represent items to be used as tax deductions or credits in future tax returns, and the related tax benefit has already been recognized in the Companys income statement. The realization of the Companys deferred tax assets is dependent upon future taxable income in specific tax jurisdictions, the timing and amount of which are uncertain. The Company evaluates all available positive and negative evidence including estimated future reversals of existing temporary differences, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies, and recent financial results. Valuation allowances related to these deferred tax assets have been established to the extent the realization of the tax benefit is not likely. To the extent the Company were to favorably resolve matters for which accruals have been established or be required to pay amounts in excess of the aforementioned reserves, the Companys effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be impacted. Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and affiliated corporate joint ventures accounted for on the equity method are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned factors may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and cash flows of the Compa nys assets in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its factories. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment, technology, and companies related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. The Company evaluates goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives for impairment annually. Assets are written down after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these assets, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Valuation of Marketable Securities and Investments in Affiliates The Company classifies the majority of its marketable securities as available for sale and carries these securities at fair value. The Company applies the equity method for investments in investees over which the Company has the ability to exercise significant influence. These investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings and are adjusted, where appropriate, for amortizable basis differences between the investment balance and the underlying net assets of the investee. For publicly traded securities, the fair value of the Companys investments is readily available based on quoted market prices. For non publicly traded securities, managements assessment of fair value is based on valuation methodologies including discounted cash flows and estima tes of sales proceeds. In the event of a decline in fair value of an investment below carrying value, management is required to determine if the decline in fair value is other than temporary. In evaluating the nature of a decline in the fair value of an investment, management considers the market conditions, trends of earnings, discounted cash flows, trading volumes, and other key measures of the investment as well as the Companys ability and intent to hold the investment. When such a decline in value is deemed to be other than temporary, an impairment loss is recognized in the current period operating results to the extent of the decline. See Notes 5 and 6 in Item 8 for information regarding the Companys marketable securities and investments in affiliates. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these marketable securities, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in: commodity market prices as they relate to the Companys net commodity position, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and prices of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to factors such as changes in weather conditions, disease, plantings, government programs and policies, competition, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. To reduce price risk caused by market fluctuations, the Company generally follows a policy of using exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts to minimize its net position of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories and forward cash purchase and sales contracts. The Company will also use exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the volatility of the relationship between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contracts defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company, from time to time, enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold or net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) A sensitivity analysis has been prepared to estimate the Companys exposure to market risk of its daily net commodity position. The Companys daily net commodity position consists of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, related purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts, including those contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements. The fair value of such daily net commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing each net position at quoted futures prices. Market risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in such prices. Actual results may differ. 2010 2009 Long/(Short) Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest position $ 429 $ 43 $ 845 $ 85 Lowest position (667 ) (67 ) (1,342 ) (134 ) Average position (190 ) (19 ) (392 ) (39 ) The change in fair value of the average position for 2010 compared to 2009 was principally the result of changes in average quantities underlying the daily net commodity position. Currencies The Company conducts its business in over 60 countries. For the majority of the Companys subsidiaries located outside the United States, the local currency is the functional currency. In order to reduce the risks associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, except for amounts permanently invested as described below, the Company follows a policy of entering into currency exchange contracts to mitigate its foreign currency risk related to transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currencies applicable to each of its various entities, primarily the Euro, British pound, Canadian dollar, and Brazilian real. The instruments used are forward contracts, swaps with banks, exchange traded futures contracts, and over the counter options. The changes in marke t value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $6.4 billion at June 30, 2010, and $6.6 billion at June 30, 2009. This decrease is due to the depreciation of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar partially offset by an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The potential loss in fair value, which would principally be recognized in Other Comprehensive Income, resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $639 million and $664 million for 2010 and 2009, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical .5% decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2010 2009 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 7,700 $ 8,103 Excess of fair value over carrying value 870 511 Market risk 289 310 The decrease in fair value of long term debt in 2010 resulted principally from the repurchase of $500 million in aggregate principal amount of the Companys outstanding debentures. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Income taxes for 2009 include charges of $158 million resulting from the restructuring of a holding company in which the Company holds a portion of its equity investment in Wilmar. Analysis of Statements of Earnings Net sales and other operating income decreased 1% to $69.2 billion due to foreign exchange translation impacts and decreased sales volumes partially offset by higher average selling prices. Net sales and other operating income increased $3.0 billion due to higher average selling prices primarily related to higher underlying commodity costs, decreased $2.0 billion due to foreign exchange translation impacts, and decreased $1.6 billion due to lower sales volumes and other. Net sales and other operating income by segment are as follows: 2009 2008 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing & Origination $ 15,579 $ 14,477 $ 1,102 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel & Other 8,760 8,588 172 Asia 179 214 (35 ) Total Oilseeds Processing 24,518 23,279 1,239 Corn Processing Sweeteners & Starches 3,785 3,546 239 Bioproducts 3,938 3,591 347 Total Corn Processing 7,723 7,137 586 Agricultural Services Merchandising & Handling 31,342 33,749 (2,407 ) Transportation 242 219 23 Total Agricultural Services 31,584 33,968 (2,384 ) Other Wheat, Cocoa & Malt 5,272 5,335 (63 ) Financial 110 97 13 Total Other 5,382 5,432 (50 ) Total $ 69,207 $ 69,816 $ (609 ) Oilseeds Processing sales increased 5% to $24.5 billion due principally to increased sales volumes of merchandised oilseeds and biodiesel partially offset by lower sales volumes of vegetable oil and protein meal. Corn Processing sales increased 8% to $7.7 billion due principally to higher sales volumes of ethanol and higher average selling prices of sweeteners and starches, partially offset by lower average selling prices of ethanol. Agricultural Services sales decreased 7% to $31.6 billion due principally to lower sales volumes of grain. Other sales decreased 1% to $5.4 billion primarily due to the sale of the Companys malting business during the first quarter of fiscal year 2009 and lower average selling prices of wheat flour. Partially offsetting these decreases were higher average selling prices of cocoa products and increased chocolate sales volumes. Cost of products sold decreased 1% to $65.1 billion, in line with the decrease in net sales and other operating income. Cost of products sold decreased $856 million due principally to decreased sales volumes, decreased LIFO inventory valuations and approximately $1.9 billion from the impact of foreign currency translation, partially offset by increased agricultural commodity costs. Manufacturing expenses decreased $215 million primarily due to decreased energy and fuel costs. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Selling, general and administrative expenses of $1.4 billion were comparable to 2008. Decreased employee related costs and favorable impacts from foreign currency translation were offset by increases in provisions for doubtful accounts. Other (income) expense net decreased $348 million primarily due to decreased results from equity earnings of unconsolidated affiliates of $270 million, and decreased investment income. Equity earnings in unconsolidated affiliates included a non cash charge of $275 million of foreign exchange derivative losses incurred by the Companys equity investee, Gruma S.A.B. de C.V. Operating profit by segment is as follows: 2009 2008 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing & Origination $ 767 $ 727 $ 40 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel & Other 265 181 84 Asia 248 132 116 Total Oilseeds Processing 1,280 1,040 240 Corn Processing Sweeteners & Starches 500 557 (57 ) Bioproducts (315 ) 404 (719 ) Total Corn Processing 185 961 (776 ) Agricultural Services Merchandising & Handling 832 873 (41 ) Transportation 162 144 18 Total Agricultural Services 994 1,017 (23 ) Other Wheat, Cocoa & Malt 51 217 (166 ) Financial (57 ) 206 (263 ) Total Other (6 ) 423 (429 ) Total Segment Operating Profit 2,453 3,441 (988 ) Corporate (see below) 47 (847 ) 894 Earnings Before Income Taxes $ 2,500 $ 2,594 $ (94 ) Corporate results are as follows: 2009 2008 Change (In millions) LIFO credit (charge) $ 517 $ (569 ) $ 1,086 Interest expense (income) net (192 ) 49 (241 ) Corporate costs (252 ) (262 ) 10 Other (26 ) (65 ) 39 Total Corporate $ 47 $ (847 ) $ 894 Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Oilseeds Processing operating profit increased 23% to $1.3 billion. Crushing and origination results increased $40 million. Improved global crushing margins were partially offset by lower fertilizer sales volumes and margins and lower North American crushing volumes due to decreased demand for vegetable oil and protein meal. Refining, packaging, biodiesel and other results increased $84 million due principally to higher biodiesel sales volumes in South America and increased average margins for value added products. 2008 results for refining, packaging, biodiesel and other included asset abandonment charges of $27 million. Asia results increased $116 million due principally to the Companys share in improved operating results of Wilmar. Corn Processing operating profits decreased 81% to $185 million. Sweeteners and starches decreased $57 million due to the impact of higher net corn costs partially offset by higher average sweetener and starches selling prices. Bioproducts operating profit decreased $719 million for the year as ethanol and lysine margins declined significantly due to higher corn costs and lower average selling prices. Ethanol margins were also impacted by lower demand for gasoline, decreased gasoline prices, and excess ethanol industry capacity. Agricultural Services operating profits decreased 2% to $994 million. Merchandising and handling profit decreased $41 million. Merchandising margins moderated as demand for commodities slowed following the downturn in the global economy. Transportation results increased $18 million due to higher barge freight rates. Other operating profits decreased 101% to a loss of $6 million. Wheat, cocoa, and malt processing operating profit decreased $166 million for the year primarily due to equity losses from the Companys investment in Gruma, partially offset by improved cocoa and wheat processing margins. Financial operating profit decreased $263 million due to losses on managed fund investments compared to gains for the year ended June 30, 2008, increased captive insurance loss provisions and decreased interest income and lower marketable security gains of the Companys brokerage service business. Corporate results increased $894 million to $47 million, primarily due to the effects of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations which resulted in credits of $517 million for the year ended June 30, 2009, compared to $569 million of LIFO charges for the year ended June 30, 2008. Unallocated interest expense increased $241 million primarily due to higher long term debt interest expense and decreased interest income. Corporate interest income decreased due to lower short term interest rates and lower working capital requirements of the operating segments. The Companys effective tax rate during 2009 was 32.5% compared to 31.1% during 2008. Income taxes increased $4 million. Lower pre tax earnings and positive impacts from favorable changes in geographic mix of earnings, currency translation impacts in South America, lower tax rates in certain foreign jurisdictions, and return to provision adjustments, were offset by charges of $158 million resulting from the restructuring of a holding company in which the Company holds a portion of its equity investment in Wilmar. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Liquidity and Capital Resources A Company objective is to have sufficient liquidity, balance sheet strength, and financial flexibility to fund the operating and capital requirements of a capital intensive agricultural commodity based business. The primary source of funds to finance the Companys operations and capital expenditures is cash generated by operations. In addition, the Company maintains a commercial paper borrowing facility and has access to equity and debt capital from public and private sources in both domestic and international markets. At June 30, 2010, the Company had $1.4 billion of cash, cash equivalents, and short term marketable securities and a current ratio, defined as current assets divided by current liabilities, of 2.1 to 1. Included in working capital is $4.9 billion of readily marketable commodity inventories. Cash generated by operating activities decreased to $2.7 billion for the year compared to $5.3 billion last year due primarily to a $3.1 billion decrease in 2009 working capital requirements related to lower agricultural commodity market prices. Cash used in investing activities was $1.7 billion compared to $1.9 billion last year. Cash used in financing activities was $1.0 billion for the year compared to $3.2 billion last year due principally to a decrease in repayments of commercial paper borrowings part ially offset by the repurchase of $500 million of long term debt. At June 30, 2010, the Companys capital resources included net worth of $14.6 billion and lines of credit totaling $6.0 billion, of which $5.7 billion was unused. The Companys ratio of long term debt to total capital (the sum of the Companys long term debt and shareholders equity) was 32% at June 30, 2010 and 36% at June 30, 2009. This ratio is a measure of the Companys long term liquidity and is an indicator of financial flexibility. Of the Companys total lines of credit, $4.2 billion support a commercial paper borrowing facility, against which there were no borrowings at June 30, 2010. The Company has outstanding $1.15 billion principal amount of convertible senior notes. As of June 30, 2010, none of the conditions permitting conversion of these notes had been satisfied. The Company has purchased call options and warrants intended to reduce the potential shareholder dilution upon future conversion of the notes. As of June 30, 2010, the market price of the Companys common stock was not greater than the exercise price of the purchased call options or warrants related to the convertible senior notes. In June 2008, the Company issued $1.75 billion of debentures as a component of Equity Units (see Note 8 in Item 8). The debentures will be remarketed in 2011. The Equity Units are a combination of debt and forward contracts for the holder to purchase the Companys common stock. Each purchase contract obligates the holder to purchase from the Company, no later than June 1, 2011, for a price of $50 in cash, a certain number of shares, ranging from 1.0453 shares to 1.2544 shares, of the Companys common stock, based on a formula established in the contract. The Companys credit facilities and certain debentures require the Company to comply with specified financial and non financial covenants including maintenance of minimum tangible net worth as well as limitations related to incurring liens, secured debt, and certain other financing arrangements. The Company is in compliance with these covenants as of June 30, 2010. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements In the normal course of business, the Company enters into contracts and commitments which obligate the Company to make payments in the future. The following table sets forth the Companys significant future obligations by time period. Purchases include commodity based contracts entered into in the normal course of business, which are further described in Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, energy related purchase contracts entered into in the normal course of business, and other purchase obligations related to the Companys normal business activities. The following table does not include unrecognized income tax benefits of $84 million as at June 30, 2010, due to uncertainty of the timing of deductibility. Where applicable, information included in the Companys consolidated financial statements and notes is cross referenced in this table. Payments Due by Period Contractual Item 8 Note Less than 1 3 3 5 More than Obligations Reference Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years (In millions) Purchases Inventories $ 9,949 $ 9,508 $ 417 $ 6 $ 18 Energy 498 284 137 31 46 Other 409 143 208 56 2 Total purchases 10,856 9,935 762 93 66 Short term debt 374 374 Long term debt Note 8 7,174 344 428 1,076 5,326 Estimated interest payments 7,928 381 700 636 6,211 Operating leases Note 13 1,381 235 371 333 442 Estimated pension and other postretirement plan contributions (1) Note 14 150 45 17 21 67 Total $ 27,863 $ 11,314 $ 2,278 $ 2,159 $ 12,112 (1) The Company is unable to estimate the amount of pension contributions beyond fiscal year 2011. For more information concerning the Companys pension and other postretirement plans, see Note 14 in Item 8. At June 30, 2010, the Company estimates it will spend approximately $1.5 billion through calendar year 2013 to complete currently approved capital projects which are not included in the table above. The Company also has outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds of $459 million at June 30, 2010. In addition, the Company has entered into agreements, primarily debt guarantee agreements related to equity method investees, which could obligate the Company to make future payments. The Companys liability under these agreements arises only if the primary entity fails to perform its contractual obligation. The Company has collateral for a portion of these contingent obligations. At June 30, 2010, these contingent obligations totaled approximately $131 million. Amounts outstanding for the primary entity under these contingent obligations were $74 million at June 30, 2010. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Critical Accounting Policies The process of preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the carrying values of the Companys assets and liabilities as well as the recognition of revenues and expenses. These estimates and judgments are based on the Companys historical experience and managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Certain of the Companys accounting policies are considered critical, as these policies are important to the depiction of the Companys financial statements and require significant or complex judgment by management. Management has discussed with the Companys Audit Committee the development, selection, disclosure, and application of these critical accounting policies. Following are the accounting policies management considers critical to the Companys financial statements. Inventories and Derivatives Certain of the Companys merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, forward fixed price purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts are valued at estimated market values. These merchandisable agricultural commodities are freely traded, have quoted market prices, and may be sold without significant additional processing. Management estimates market value based on exchange quoted prices, adjusted for differences in local markets. Changes in the market values of these inventories and contracts are recognized in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. If management used different methods or factors to estimate market value, amounts reported as inventories and cost of products sold coul d differ materially. Additionally, if market conditions change subsequent to year end, amounts reported in future periods as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. The Company, from time to time, uses derivative contracts designated as cash flow hedges to fix the purchase price of anticipated volumes of commodities to be purchased and processed in a future month, to fix the purchase price of the Companys anticipated natural gas requirements for certain production facilities, and to fix the sales price of anticipated volumes of ethanol. The change in the market value of such derivative contracts has historically been, and is expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold and net sales and other operating income in th e statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. If it is determined that the derivative instruments used are no longer effective at offsetting changes in the price of the hedged item, then the changes in the market value of these exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts would be recorded in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. Employee Benefit Plans The Company provides substantially all domestic employees and employees at certain international subsidiaries with pension benefits. Eligible domestic employees with five or more years of service prior to January 1, 2009 participate in a defined benefit pension plan. Eligible domestic employees hired on or after January 1, 2009 (and eligible salaried employees with less than five years of service prior to January 1, 2009) participate in a cash balance pension formula. The Company provides eligible domestic employees who retire under qualifying conditions with access to postretirement health care, at full cost to the retiree (certain employees are grandfather ed into subsidized coverage). In order to measure the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans, management makes several estimates and assumptions, including interest rates used to discount certain liabilities, rates of return on assets set aside to fund these plans, rates of compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and anticipated future health care costs. These estimates and assumptions are based on the Companys historical experience combined with managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Management also uses third party actuaries to assist in measuring the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans. If management used different estimates and assumptions regarding these plans, the funded status of the plans could vary significantly, and the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Income Taxes The Company frequently faces challenges from domestic and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company records reserves for estimates of potential additional tax owed by the Company. As an example, a subsidiary of the Company received a tax assessment in the amount of $456 million (subject to variation in currency exchange rates) consisting of tax, penalty, and interest from the Brazilian Federal Revenue Service challenging the deductibility of commodity hedging losses incurred by the Company in 2004. The Company evaluated its tax position rega rding these hedging transactions and concluded, based in part upon advice from Brazilian legal counsel, that it was appropriate to recognize the tax benefits of these deductions (See Note 12 in Item 8 for additional information). Deferred tax assets represent items to be used as tax deductions or credits in future tax returns, and the related tax benefit has already been recognized in the Companys income statement. The realization of the Companys deferred tax assets is dependent upon future taxable income in specific tax jurisdictions, the timing and amount of which are uncertain. The Company evaluates all available positive and negative evidence including estimated future reversals of existing temporary differences, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies, and recent financial results. Valuation allowances related to these deferred tax assets have been established to the extent the realization of the tax benefit is not likely. To the extent the Company were to favorably resolve matters for which accruals have been established or be required to pay amounts in excess of the aforementioned reserves, the Companys effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be impacted. Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and affiliated corporate joint ventures accounted for on the equity method are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned factors may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and cash flows of the Compa nys assets in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its factories. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment, technology, and companies related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. The Company evaluates goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives for impairment annually. Assets are written down after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these assets, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Valuation of Marketable Securities and Investments in Affiliates The Company classifies the majority of its marketable securities as available for sale and carries these securities at fair value. The Company applies the equity method for investments in investees over which the Company has the ability to exercise significant influence. These investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings and are adjusted, where appropriate, for amortizable basis differences between the investment balance and the underlying net assets of the investee. For publicly traded securities, the fair value of the Companys investments is readily available based on quoted market prices. For non publicly traded securities, managements assessment of fair value is based on valuation methodologies including discounted cash flows and estima tes of sales proceeds. In the event of a decline in fair value of an investment below carrying value, management is required to determine if the decline in fair value is other than temporary. In evaluating the nature of a decline in the fair value of an investment, management considers the market conditions, trends of earnings, discounted cash flows, trading volumes, and other key measures of the investment as well as the Companys ability and intent to hold the investment. When such a decline in value is deemed to be other than temporary, an impairment loss is recognized in the current period operating results to the extent of the decline. See Notes 5 and 6 in Item 8 for information regarding the Companys marketable securities and investments in affiliates. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these marketable securities, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in: commodity market prices as they relate to the Companys net commodity position, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and prices of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to factors such as changes in weather conditions, disease, plantings, government programs and policies, competition, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. To reduce price risk caused by market fluctuations, the Company generally follows a policy of using exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts to minimize its net position of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories and forward cash purchase and sales contracts. The Company will also use exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the volatility of the relationship between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contracts defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company, from time to time, enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold or net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) A sensitivity analysis has been prepared to estimate the Companys exposure to market risk of its daily net commodity position. The Companys daily net commodity position consists of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, related purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts, including those contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements. The fair value of such daily net commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing each net position at quoted futures prices. Market risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in such prices. Actual results may differ. 2010 2009 Long/(Short) Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest position $ 429 $ 43 $ 845 $ 85 Lowest position (667 ) (67 ) (1,342 ) (134 ) Average position (190 ) (19 ) (392 ) (39 ) The change in fair value of the average position for 2010 compared to 2009 was principally the result of changes in average quantities underlying the daily net commodity position. Currencies The Company conducts its business in over 60 countries. For the majority of the Companys subsidiaries located outside the United States, the local currency is the functional currency. In order to reduce the risks associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, except for amounts permanently invested as described below, the Company follows a policy of entering into currency exchange contracts to mitigate its foreign currency risk related to transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currencies applicable to each of its various entities, primarily the Euro, British pound, Canadian dollar, and Brazilian real. The instruments used are forward contracts, swaps with banks, exchange traded futures contracts, and over the counter options. The changes in marke t value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $6.4 billion at June 30, 2010, and $6.6 billion at June 30, 2009. This decrease is due to the depreciation of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar partially offset by an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The potential loss in fair value, which would principally be recognized in Other Comprehensive Income, resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $639 million and $664 million for 2010 and 2009, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical .5% decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2010 2009 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 7,700 $ 8,103 Excess of fair value over carrying value 870 511 Market risk 289 310 The decrease in fair value of long term debt in 2010 resulted principally from the repurchase of $500 million in aggregate principal amount of the Companys outstanding debentures. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Selling, general and administrative expenses of $1.4 billion were comparable to 2008. Decreased employee related costs and favorable impacts from foreign currency translation were offset by increases in provisions for doubtful accounts. Other (income) expense net decreased $348 million primarily due to decreased results from equity earnings of unconsolidated affiliates of $270 million, and decreased investment income. Equity earnings in unconsolidated affiliates included a non cash charge of $275 million of foreign exchange derivative losses incurred by the Companys equity investee, Gruma S.A.B. de C.V. Operating profit by segment is as follows: 2009 2008 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing & Origination $ 767 $ 727 $ 40 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel & Other 265 181 84 Asia 248 132 116 Total Oilseeds Processing 1,280 1,040 240 Corn Processing Sweeteners & Starches 500 557 (57 ) Bioproducts (315 ) 404 (719 ) Total Corn Processing 185 961 (776 ) Agricultural Services Merchandising & Handling 832 873 (41 ) Transportation 162 144 18 Total Agricultural Services 994 1,017 (23 ) Other Wheat, Cocoa & Malt 51 217 (166 ) Financial (57 ) 206 (263 ) Total Other (6 ) 423 (429 ) Total Segment Operating Profit 2,453 3,441 (988 ) Corporate (see below) 47 (847 ) 894 Earnings Before Income Taxes $ 2,500 $ 2,594 $ (94 ) Corporate results are as follows: 2009 2008 Change (In millions) LIFO credit (charge) $ 517 $ (569 ) $ 1,086 Interest expense (income) net (192 ) 49 (241 ) Corporate costs (252 ) (262 ) 10 Other (26 ) (65 ) 39 Total Corporate $ 47 $ (847 ) $ 894 Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Oilseeds Processing operating profit increased 23% to $1.3 billion. Crushing and origination results increased $40 million. Improved global crushing margins were partially offset by lower fertilizer sales volumes and margins and lower North American crushing volumes due to decreased demand for vegetable oil and protein meal. Refining, packaging, biodiesel and other results increased $84 million due principally to higher biodiesel sales volumes in South America and increased average margins for value added products. 2008 results for refining, packaging, biodiesel and other included asset abandonment charges of $27 million. Asia results increased $116 million due principally to the Companys share in improved operating results of Wilmar. Corn Processing operating profits decreased 81% to $185 million. Sweeteners and starches decreased $57 million due to the impact of higher net corn costs partially offset by higher average sweetener and starches selling prices. Bioproducts operating profit decreased $719 million for the year as ethanol and lysine margins declined significantly due to higher corn costs and lower average selling prices. Ethanol margins were also impacted by lower demand for gasoline, decreased gasoline prices, and excess ethanol industry capacity. Agricultural Services operating profits decreased 2% to $994 million. Merchandising and handling profit decreased $41 million. Merchandising margins moderated as demand for commodities slowed following the downturn in the global economy. Transportation results increased $18 million due to higher barge freight rates. Other operating profits decreased 101% to a loss of $6 million. Wheat, cocoa, and malt processing operating profit decreased $166 million for the year primarily due to equity losses from the Companys investment in Gruma, partially offset by improved cocoa and wheat processing margins. Financial operating profit decreased $263 million due to losses on managed fund investments compared to gains for the year ended June 30, 2008, increased captive insurance loss provisions and decreased interest income and lower marketable security gains of the Companys brokerage service business. Corporate results increased $894 million to $47 million, primarily due to the effects of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations which resulted in credits of $517 million for the year ended June 30, 2009, compared to $569 million of LIFO charges for the year ended June 30, 2008. Unallocated interest expense increased $241 million primarily due to higher long term debt interest expense and decreased interest income. Corporate interest income decreased due to lower short term interest rates and lower working capital requirements of the operating segments. The Companys effective tax rate during 2009 was 32.5% compared to 31.1% during 2008. Income taxes increased $4 million. Lower pre tax earnings and positive impacts from favorable changes in geographic mix of earnings, currency translation impacts in South America, lower tax rates in certain foreign jurisdictions, and return to provision adjustments, were offset by charges of $158 million resulting from the restructuring of a holding company in which the Company holds a portion of its equity investment in Wilmar. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Liquidity and Capital Resources A Company objective is to have sufficient liquidity, balance sheet strength, and financial flexibility to fund the operating and capital requirements of a capital intensive agricultural commodity based business. The primary source of funds to finance the Companys operations and capital expenditures is cash generated by operations. In addition, the Company maintains a commercial paper borrowing facility and has access to equity and debt capital from public and private sources in both domestic and international markets. At June 30, 2010, the Company had $1.4 billion of cash, cash equivalents, and short term marketable securities and a current ratio, defined as current assets divided by current liabilities, of 2.1 to 1. Included in working capital is $4.9 billion of readily marketable commodity inventories. Cash generated by operating activities decreased to $2.7 billion for the year compared to $5.3 billion last year due primarily to a $3.1 billion decrease in 2009 working capital requirements related to lower agricultural commodity market prices. Cash used in investing activities was $1.7 billion compared to $1.9 billion last year. Cash used in financing activities was $1.0 billion for the year compared to $3.2 billion last year due principally to a decrease in repayments of commercial paper borrowings part ially offset by the repurchase of $500 million of long term debt. At June 30, 2010, the Companys capital resources included net worth of $14.6 billion and lines of credit totaling $6.0 billion, of which $5.7 billion was unused. The Companys ratio of long term debt to total capital (the sum of the Companys long term debt and shareholders equity) was 32% at June 30, 2010 and 36% at June 30, 2009. This ratio is a measure of the Companys long term liquidity and is an indicator of financial flexibility. Of the Companys total lines of credit, $4.2 billion support a commercial paper borrowing facility, against which there were no borrowings at June 30, 2010. The Company has outstanding $1.15 billion principal amount of convertible senior notes. As of June 30, 2010, none of the conditions permitting conversion of these notes had been satisfied. The Company has purchased call options and warrants intended to reduce the potential shareholder dilution upon future conversion of the notes. As of June 30, 2010, the market price of the Companys common stock was not greater than the exercise price of the purchased call options or warrants related to the convertible senior notes. In June 2008, the Company issued $1.75 billion of debentures as a component of Equity Units (see Note 8 in Item 8). The debentures will be remarketed in 2011. The Equity Units are a combination of debt and forward contracts for the holder to purchase the Companys common stock. Each purchase contract obligates the holder to purchase from the Company, no later than June 1, 2011, for a price of $50 in cash, a certain number of shares, ranging from 1.0453 shares to 1.2544 shares, of the Companys common stock, based on a formula established in the contract. The Companys credit facilities and certain debentures require the Company to comply with specified financial and non financial covenants including maintenance of minimum tangible net worth as well as limitations related to incurring liens, secured debt, and certain other financing arrangements. The Company is in compliance with these covenants as of June 30, 2010. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements In the normal course of business, the Company enters into contracts and commitments which obligate the Company to make payments in the future. The following table sets forth the Companys significant future obligations by time period. Purchases include commodity based contracts entered into in the normal course of business, which are further described in Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, energy related purchase contracts entered into in the normal course of business, and other purchase obligations related to the Companys normal business activities. The following table does not include unrecognized income tax benefits of $84 million as at June 30, 2010, due to uncertainty of the timing of deductibility. Where applicable, information included in the Companys consolidated financial statements and notes is cross referenced in this table. Payments Due by Period Contractual Item 8 Note Less than 1 3 3 5 More than Obligations Reference Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years (In millions) Purchases Inventories $ 9,949 $ 9,508 $ 417 $ 6 $ 18 Energy 498 284 137 31 46 Other 409 143 208 56 2 Total purchases 10,856 9,935 762 93 66 Short term debt 374 374 Long term debt Note 8 7,174 344 428 1,076 5,326 Estimated interest payments 7,928 381 700 636 6,211 Operating leases Note 13 1,381 235 371 333 442 Estimated pension and other postretirement plan contributions (1) Note 14 150 45 17 21 67 Total $ 27,863 $ 11,314 $ 2,278 $ 2,159 $ 12,112 (1) The Company is unable to estimate the amount of pension contributions beyond fiscal year 2011. For more information concerning the Companys pension and other postretirement plans, see Note 14 in Item 8. At June 30, 2010, the Company estimates it will spend approximately $1.5 billion through calendar year 2013 to complete currently approved capital projects which are not included in the table above. The Company also has outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds of $459 million at June 30, 2010. In addition, the Company has entered into agreements, primarily debt guarantee agreements related to equity method investees, which could obligate the Company to make future payments. The Companys liability under these agreements arises only if the primary entity fails to perform its contractual obligation. The Company has collateral for a portion of these contingent obligations. At June 30, 2010, these contingent obligations totaled approximately $131 million. Amounts outstanding for the primary entity under these contingent obligations were $74 million at June 30, 2010. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Critical Accounting Policies The process of preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the carrying values of the Companys assets and liabilities as well as the recognition of revenues and expenses. These estimates and judgments are based on the Companys historical experience and managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Certain of the Companys accounting policies are considered critical, as these policies are important to the depiction of the Companys financial statements and require significant or complex judgment by management. Management has discussed with the Companys Audit Committee the development, selection, disclosure, and application of these critical accounting policies. Following are the accounting policies management considers critical to the Companys financial statements. Inventories and Derivatives Certain of the Companys merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, forward fixed price purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts are valued at estimated market values. These merchandisable agricultural commodities are freely traded, have quoted market prices, and may be sold without significant additional processing. Management estimates market value based on exchange quoted prices, adjusted for differences in local markets. Changes in the market values of these inventories and contracts are recognized in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. If management used different methods or factors to estimate market value, amounts reported as inventories and cost of products sold coul d differ materially. Additionally, if market conditions change subsequent to year end, amounts reported in future periods as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. The Company, from time to time, uses derivative contracts designated as cash flow hedges to fix the purchase price of anticipated volumes of commodities to be purchased and processed in a future month, to fix the purchase price of the Companys anticipated natural gas requirements for certain production facilities, and to fix the sales price of anticipated volumes of ethanol. The change in the market value of such derivative contracts has historically been, and is expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold and net sales and other operating income in th e statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. If it is determined that the derivative instruments used are no longer effective at offsetting changes in the price of the hedged item, then the changes in the market value of these exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts would be recorded in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. Employee Benefit Plans The Company provides substantially all domestic employees and employees at certain international subsidiaries with pension benefits. Eligible domestic employees with five or more years of service prior to January 1, 2009 participate in a defined benefit pension plan. Eligible domestic employees hired on or after January 1, 2009 (and eligible salaried employees with less than five years of service prior to January 1, 2009) participate in a cash balance pension formula. The Company provides eligible domestic employees who retire under qualifying conditions with access to postretirement health care, at full cost to the retiree (certain employees are grandfather ed into subsidized coverage). In order to measure the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans, management makes several estimates and assumptions, including interest rates used to discount certain liabilities, rates of return on assets set aside to fund these plans, rates of compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and anticipated future health care costs. These estimates and assumptions are based on the Companys historical experience combined with managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Management also uses third party actuaries to assist in measuring the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans. If management used different estimates and assumptions regarding these plans, the funded status of the plans could vary significantly, and the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Income Taxes The Company frequently faces challenges from domestic and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company records reserves for estimates of potential additional tax owed by the Company. As an example, a subsidiary of the Company received a tax assessment in the amount of $456 million (subject to variation in currency exchange rates) consisting of tax, penalty, and interest from the Brazilian Federal Revenue Service challenging the deductibility of commodity hedging losses incurred by the Company in 2004. The Company evaluated its tax position rega rding these hedging transactions and concluded, based in part upon advice from Brazilian legal counsel, that it was appropriate to recognize the tax benefits of these deductions (See Note 12 in Item 8 for additional information). Deferred tax assets represent items to be used as tax deductions or credits in future tax returns, and the related tax benefit has already been recognized in the Companys income statement. The realization of the Companys deferred tax assets is dependent upon future taxable income in specific tax jurisdictions, the timing and amount of which are uncertain. The Company evaluates all available positive and negative evidence including estimated future reversals of existing temporary differences, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies, and recent financial results. Valuation allowances related to these deferred tax assets have been established to the extent the realization of the tax benefit is not likely. To the extent the Company were to favorably resolve matters for which accruals have been established or be required to pay amounts in excess of the aforementioned reserves, the Companys effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be impacted. Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and affiliated corporate joint ventures accounted for on the equity method are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned factors may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and cash flows of the Compa nys assets in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its factories. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment, technology, and companies related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. The Company evaluates goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives for impairment annually. Assets are written down after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these assets, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Valuation of Marketable Securities and Investments in Affiliates The Company classifies the majority of its marketable securities as available for sale and carries these securities at fair value. The Company applies the equity method for investments in investees over which the Company has the ability to exercise significant influence. These investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings and are adjusted, where appropriate, for amortizable basis differences between the investment balance and the underlying net assets of the investee. For publicly traded securities, the fair value of the Companys investments is readily available based on quoted market prices. For non publicly traded securities, managements assessment of fair value is based on valuation methodologies including discounted cash flows and estima tes of sales proceeds. In the event of a decline in fair value of an investment below carrying value, management is required to determine if the decline in fair value is other than temporary. In evaluating the nature of a decline in the fair value of an investment, management considers the market conditions, trends of earnings, discounted cash flows, trading volumes, and other key measures of the investment as well as the Companys ability and intent to hold the investment. When such a decline in value is deemed to be other than temporary, an impairment loss is recognized in the current period operating results to the extent of the decline. See Notes 5 and 6 in Item 8 for information regarding the Companys marketable securities and investments in affiliates. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these marketable securities, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in: commodity market prices as they relate to the Companys net commodity position, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and prices of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to factors such as changes in weather conditions, disease, plantings, government programs and policies, competition, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. To reduce price risk caused by market fluctuations, the Company generally follows a policy of using exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts to minimize its net position of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories and forward cash purchase and sales contracts. The Company will also use exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the volatility of the relationship between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contracts defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company, from time to time, enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold or net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) A sensitivity analysis has been prepared to estimate the Companys exposure to market risk of its daily net commodity position. The Companys daily net commodity position consists of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, related purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts, including those contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements. The fair value of such daily net commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing each net position at quoted futures prices. Market risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in such prices. Actual results may differ. 2010 2009 Long/(Short) Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest position $ 429 $ 43 $ 845 $ 85 Lowest position (667 ) (67 ) (1,342 ) (134 ) Average position (190 ) (19 ) (392 ) (39 ) The change in fair value of the average position for 2010 compared to 2009 was principally the result of changes in average quantities underlying the daily net commodity position. Currencies The Company conducts its business in over 60 countries. For the majority of the Companys subsidiaries located outside the United States, the local currency is the functional currency. In order to reduce the risks associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, except for amounts permanently invested as described below, the Company follows a policy of entering into currency exchange contracts to mitigate its foreign currency risk related to transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currencies applicable to each of its various entities, primarily the Euro, British pound, Canadian dollar, and Brazilian real. The instruments used are forward contracts, swaps with banks, exchange traded futures contracts, and over the counter options. The changes in marke t value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $6.4 billion at June 30, 2010, and $6.6 billion at June 30, 2009. This decrease is due to the depreciation of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar partially offset by an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The potential loss in fair value, which would principally be recognized in Other Comprehensive Income, resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $639 million and $664 million for 2010 and 2009, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical .5% decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2010 2009 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 7,700 $ 8,103 Excess of fair value over carrying value 870 511 Market risk 289 310 The decrease in fair value of long term debt in 2010 resulted principally from the repurchase of $500 million in aggregate principal amount of the Companys outstanding debentures. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Oilseeds Processing operating profit increased 23% to $1.3 billion. Crushing and origination results increased $40 million. Improved global crushing margins were partially offset by lower fertilizer sales volumes and margins and lower North American crushing volumes due to decreased demand for vegetable oil and protein meal. Refining, packaging, biodiesel and other results increased $84 million due principally to higher biodiesel sales volumes in South America and increased average margins for value added products. 2008 results for refining, packaging, biodiesel and other included asset abandonment charges of $27 million. Asia results increased $116 million due principally to the Companys share in improved operating results of Wilmar. Corn Processing operating profits decreased 81% to $185 million. Sweeteners and starches decreased $57 million due to the impact of higher net corn costs partially offset by higher average sweetener and starches selling prices. Bioproducts operating profit decreased $719 million for the year as ethanol and lysine margins declined significantly due to higher corn costs and lower average selling prices. Ethanol margins were also impacted by lower demand for gasoline, decreased gasoline prices, and excess ethanol industry capacity. Agricultural Services operating profits decreased 2% to $994 million. Merchandising and handling profit decreased $41 million. Merchandising margins moderated as demand for commodities slowed following the downturn in the global economy. Transportation results increased $18 million due to higher barge freight rates. Other operating profits decreased 101% to a loss of $6 million. Wheat, cocoa, and malt processing operating profit decreased $166 million for the year primarily due to equity losses from the Companys investment in Gruma, partially offset by improved cocoa and wheat processing margins. Financial operating profit decreased $263 million due to losses on managed fund investments compared to gains for the year ended June 30, 2008, increased captive insurance loss provisions and decreased interest income and lower marketable security gains of the Companys brokerage service business. Corporate results increased $894 million to $47 million, primarily due to the effects of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations which resulted in credits of $517 million for the year ended June 30, 2009, compared to $569 million of LIFO charges for the year ended June 30, 2008. Unallocated interest expense increased $241 million primarily due to higher long term debt interest expense and decreased interest income. Corporate interest income decreased due to lower short term interest rates and lower working capital requirements of the operating segments. The Companys effective tax rate during 2009 was 32.5% compared to 31.1% during 2008. Income taxes increased $4 million. Lower pre tax earnings and positive impacts from favorable changes in geographic mix of earnings, currency translation impacts in South America, lower tax rates in certain foreign jurisdictions, and return to provision adjustments, were offset by charges of $158 million resulting from the restructuring of a holding company in which the Company holds a portion of its equity investment in Wilmar. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Liquidity and Capital Resources A Company objective is to have sufficient liquidity, balance sheet strength, and financial flexibility to fund the operating and capital requirements of a capital intensive agricultural commodity based business. The primary source of funds to finance the Companys operations and capital expenditures is cash generated by operations. In addition, the Company maintains a commercial paper borrowing facility and has access to equity and debt capital from public and private sources in both domestic and international markets. At June 30, 2010, the Company had $1.4 billion of cash, cash equivalents, and short term marketable securities and a current ratio, defined as current assets divided by current liabilities, of 2.1 to 1. Included in working capital is $4.9 billion of readily marketable commodity inventories. Cash generated by operating activities decreased to $2.7 billion for the year compared to $5.3 billion last year due primarily to a $3.1 billion decrease in 2009 working capital requirements related to lower agricultural commodity market prices. Cash used in investing activities was $1.7 billion compared to $1.9 billion last year. Cash used in financing activities was $1.0 billion for the year compared to $3.2 billion last year due principally to a decrease in repayments of commercial paper borrowings part ially offset by the repurchase of $500 million of long term debt. At June 30, 2010, the Companys capital resources included net worth of $14.6 billion and lines of credit totaling $6.0 billion, of which $5.7 billion was unused. The Companys ratio of long term debt to total capital (the sum of the Companys long term debt and shareholders equity) was 32% at June 30, 2010 and 36% at June 30, 2009. This ratio is a measure of the Companys long term liquidity and is an indicator of financial flexibility. Of the Companys total lines of credit, $4.2 billion support a commercial paper borrowing facility, against which there were no borrowings at June 30, 2010. The Company has outstanding $1.15 billion principal amount of convertible senior notes. As of June 30, 2010, none of the conditions permitting conversion of these notes had been satisfied. The Company has purchased call options and warrants intended to reduce the potential shareholder dilution upon future conversion of the notes. As of June 30, 2010, the market price of the Companys common stock was not greater than the exercise price of the purchased call options or warrants related to the convertible senior notes. In June 2008, the Company issued $1.75 billion of debentures as a component of Equity Units (see Note 8 in Item 8). The debentures will be remarketed in 2011. The Equity Units are a combination of debt and forward contracts for the holder to purchase the Companys common stock. Each purchase contract obligates the holder to purchase from the Company, no later than June 1, 2011, for a price of $50 in cash, a certain number of shares, ranging from 1.0453 shares to 1.2544 shares, of the Companys common stock, based on a formula established in the contract. The Companys credit facilities and certain debentures require the Company to comply with specified financial and non financial covenants including maintenance of minimum tangible net worth as well as limitations related to incurring liens, secured debt, and certain other financing arrangements. The Company is in compliance with these covenants as of June 30, 2010. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements In the normal course of business, the Company enters into contracts and commitments which obligate the Company to make payments in the future. The following table sets forth the Companys significant future obligations by time period. Purchases include commodity based contracts entered into in the normal course of business, which are further described in Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, energy related purchase contracts entered into in the normal course of business, and other purchase obligations related to the Companys normal business activities. The following table does not include unrecognized income tax benefits of $84 million as at June 30, 2010, due to uncertainty of the timing of deductibility. Where applicable, information included in the Companys consolidated financial statements and notes is cross referenced in this table. Payments Due by Period Contractual Item 8 Note Less than 1 3 3 5 More than Obligations Reference Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years (In millions) Purchases Inventories $ 9,949 $ 9,508 $ 417 $ 6 $ 18 Energy 498 284 137 31 46 Other 409 143 208 56 2 Total purchases 10,856 9,935 762 93 66 Short term debt 374 374 Long term debt Note 8 7,174 344 428 1,076 5,326 Estimated interest payments 7,928 381 700 636 6,211 Operating leases Note 13 1,381 235 371 333 442 Estimated pension and other postretirement plan contributions (1) Note 14 150 45 17 21 67 Total $ 27,863 $ 11,314 $ 2,278 $ 2,159 $ 12,112 (1) The Company is unable to estimate the amount of pension contributions beyond fiscal year 2011. For more information concerning the Companys pension and other postretirement plans, see Note 14 in Item 8. At June 30, 2010, the Company estimates it will spend approximately $1.5 billion through calendar year 2013 to complete currently approved capital projects which are not included in the table above. The Company also has outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds of $459 million at June 30, 2010. In addition, the Company has entered into agreements, primarily debt guarantee agreements related to equity method investees, which could obligate the Company to make future payments. The Companys liability under these agreements arises only if the primary entity fails to perform its contractual obligation. The Company has collateral for a portion of these contingent obligations. At June 30, 2010, these contingent obligations totaled approximately $131 million. Amounts outstanding for the primary entity under these contingent obligations were $74 million at June 30, 2010. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Critical Accounting Policies The process of preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the carrying values of the Companys assets and liabilities as well as the recognition of revenues and expenses. These estimates and judgments are based on the Companys historical experience and managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Certain of the Companys accounting policies are considered critical, as these policies are important to the depiction of the Companys financial statements and require significant or complex judgment by management. Management has discussed with the Companys Audit Committee the development, selection, disclosure, and application of these critical accounting policies. Following are the accounting policies management considers critical to the Companys financial statements. Inventories and Derivatives Certain of the Companys merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, forward fixed price purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts are valued at estimated market values. These merchandisable agricultural commodities are freely traded, have quoted market prices, and may be sold without significant additional processing. Management estimates market value based on exchange quoted prices, adjusted for differences in local markets. Changes in the market values of these inventories and contracts are recognized in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. If management used different methods or factors to estimate market value, amounts reported as inventories and cost of products sold coul d differ materially. Additionally, if market conditions change subsequent to year end, amounts reported in future periods as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. The Company, from time to time, uses derivative contracts designated as cash flow hedges to fix the purchase price of anticipated volumes of commodities to be purchased and processed in a future month, to fix the purchase price of the Companys anticipated natural gas requirements for certain production facilities, and to fix the sales price of anticipated volumes of ethanol. The change in the market value of such derivative contracts has historically been, and is expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold and net sales and other operating income in th e statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. If it is determined that the derivative instruments used are no longer effective at offsetting changes in the price of the hedged item, then the changes in the market value of these exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts would be recorded in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. Employee Benefit Plans The Company provides substantially all domestic employees and employees at certain international subsidiaries with pension benefits. Eligible domestic employees with five or more years of service prior to January 1, 2009 participate in a defined benefit pension plan. Eligible domestic employees hired on or after January 1, 2009 (and eligible salaried employees with less than five years of service prior to January 1, 2009) participate in a cash balance pension formula. The Company provides eligible domestic employees who retire under qualifying conditions with access to postretirement health care, at full cost to the retiree (certain employees are grandfather ed into subsidized coverage). In order to measure the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans, management makes several estimates and assumptions, including interest rates used to discount certain liabilities, rates of return on assets set aside to fund these plans, rates of compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and anticipated future health care costs. These estimates and assumptions are based on the Companys historical experience combined with managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Management also uses third party actuaries to assist in measuring the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans. If management used different estimates and assumptions regarding these plans, the funded status of the plans could vary significantly, and the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Income Taxes The Company frequently faces challenges from domestic and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company records reserves for estimates of potential additional tax owed by the Company. As an example, a subsidiary of the Company received a tax assessment in the amount of $456 million (subject to variation in currency exchange rates) consisting of tax, penalty, and interest from the Brazilian Federal Revenue Service challenging the deductibility of commodity hedging losses incurred by the Company in 2004. The Company evaluated its tax position rega rding these hedging transactions and concluded, based in part upon advice from Brazilian legal counsel, that it was appropriate to recognize the tax benefits of these deductions (See Note 12 in Item 8 for additional information). Deferred tax assets represent items to be used as tax deductions or credits in future tax returns, and the related tax benefit has already been recognized in the Companys income statement. The realization of the Companys deferred tax assets is dependent upon future taxable income in specific tax jurisdictions, the timing and amount of which are uncertain. The Company evaluates all available positive and negative evidence including estimated future reversals of existing temporary differences, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies, and recent financial results. Valuation allowances related to these deferred tax assets have been established to the extent the realization of the tax benefit is not likely. To the extent the Company were to favorably resolve matters for which accruals have been established or be required to pay amounts in excess of the aforementioned reserves, the Companys effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be impacted. Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and affiliated corporate joint ventures accounted for on the equity method are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned factors may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and cash flows of the Compa nys assets in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its factories. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment, technology, and companies related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. The Company evaluates goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives for impairment annually. Assets are written down after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these assets, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Valuation of Marketable Securities and Investments in Affiliates The Company classifies the majority of its marketable securities as available for sale and carries these securities at fair value. The Company applies the equity method for investments in investees over which the Company has the ability to exercise significant influence. These investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings and are adjusted, where appropriate, for amortizable basis differences between the investment balance and the underlying net assets of the investee. For publicly traded securities, the fair value of the Companys investments is readily available based on quoted market prices. For non publicly traded securities, managements assessment of fair value is based on valuation methodologies including discounted cash flows and estima tes of sales proceeds. In the event of a decline in fair value of an investment below carrying value, management is required to determine if the decline in fair value is other than temporary. In evaluating the nature of a decline in the fair value of an investment, management considers the market conditions, trends of earnings, discounted cash flows, trading volumes, and other key measures of the investment as well as the Companys ability and intent to hold the investment. When such a decline in value is deemed to be other than temporary, an impairment loss is recognized in the current period operating results to the extent of the decline. See Notes 5 and 6 in Item 8 for information regarding the Companys marketable securities and investments in affiliates. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these marketable securities, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in: commodity market prices as they relate to the Companys net commodity position, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and prices of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to factors such as changes in weather conditions, disease, plantings, government programs and policies, competition, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. To reduce price risk caused by market fluctuations, the Company generally follows a policy of using exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts to minimize its net position of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories and forward cash purchase and sales contracts. The Company will also use exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the volatility of the relationship between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contracts defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company, from time to time, enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold or net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) A sensitivity analysis has been prepared to estimate the Companys exposure to market risk of its daily net commodity position. The Companys daily net commodity position consists of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, related purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts, including those contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements. The fair value of such daily net commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing each net position at quoted futures prices. Market risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in such prices. Actual results may differ. 2010 2009 Long/(Short) Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest position $ 429 $ 43 $ 845 $ 85 Lowest position (667 ) (67 ) (1,342 ) (134 ) Average position (190 ) (19 ) (392 ) (39 ) The change in fair value of the average position for 2010 compared to 2009 was principally the result of changes in average quantities underlying the daily net commodity position. Currencies The Company conducts its business in over 60 countries. For the majority of the Companys subsidiaries located outside the United States, the local currency is the functional currency. In order to reduce the risks associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, except for amounts permanently invested as described below, the Company follows a policy of entering into currency exchange contracts to mitigate its foreign currency risk related to transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currencies applicable to each of its various entities, primarily the Euro, British pound, Canadian dollar, and Brazilian real. The instruments used are forward contracts, swaps with banks, exchange traded futures contracts, and over the counter options. The changes in marke t value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $6.4 billion at June 30, 2010, and $6.6 billion at June 30, 2009. This decrease is due to the depreciation of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar partially offset by an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The potential loss in fair value, which would principally be recognized in Other Comprehensive Income, resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $639 million and $664 million for 2010 and 2009, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical .5% decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2010 2009 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 7,700 $ 8,103 Excess of fair value over carrying value 870 511 Market risk 289 310 The decrease in fair value of long term debt in 2010 resulted principally from the repurchase of $500 million in aggregate principal amount of the Companys outstanding debentures. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Liquidity and Capital Resources A Company objective is to have sufficient liquidity, balance sheet strength, and financial flexibility to fund the operating and capital requirements of a capital intensive agricultural commodity based business. The primary source of funds to finance the Companys operations and capital expenditures is cash generated by operations. In addition, the Company maintains a commercial paper borrowing facility and has access to equity and debt capital from public and private sources in both domestic and international markets. At June 30, 2010, the Company had $1.4 billion of cash, cash equivalents, and short term marketable securities and a current ratio, defined as current assets divided by current liabilities, of 2.1 to 1. Included in working capital is $4.9 billion of readily marketable commodity inventories. Cash generated by operating activities decreased to $2.7 billion for the year compared to $5.3 billion last year due primarily to a $3.1 billion decrease in 2009 working capital requirements related to lower agricultural commodity market prices. Cash used in investing activities was $1.7 billion compared to $1.9 billion last year. Cash used in financing activities was $1.0 billion for the year compared to $3.2 billion last year due principally to a decrease in repayments of commercial paper borrowings part ially offset by the repurchase of $500 million of long term debt. At June 30, 2010, the Companys capital resources included net worth of $14.6 billion and lines of credit totaling $6.0 billion, of which $5.7 billion was unused. The Companys ratio of long term debt to total capital (the sum of the Companys long term debt and shareholders equity) was 32% at June 30, 2010 and 36% at June 30, 2009. This ratio is a measure of the Companys long term liquidity and is an indicator of financial flexibility. Of the Companys total lines of credit, $4.2 billion support a commercial paper borrowing facility, against which there were no borrowings at June 30, 2010. The Company has outstanding $1.15 billion principal amount of convertible senior notes. As of June 30, 2010, none of the conditions permitting conversion of these notes had been satisfied. The Company has purchased call options and warrants intended to reduce the potential shareholder dilution upon future conversion of the notes. As of June 30, 2010, the market price of the Companys common stock was not greater than the exercise price of the purchased call options or warrants related to the convertible senior notes. In June 2008, the Company issued $1.75 billion of debentures as a component of Equity Units (see Note 8 in Item 8). The debentures will be remarketed in 2011. The Equity Units are a combination of debt and forward contracts for the holder to purchase the Companys common stock. Each purchase contract obligates the holder to purchase from the Company, no later than June 1, 2011, for a price of $50 in cash, a certain number of shares, ranging from 1.0453 shares to 1.2544 shares, of the Companys common stock, based on a formula established in the contract. The Companys credit facilities and certain debentures require the Company to comply with specified financial and non financial covenants including maintenance of minimum tangible net worth as well as limitations related to incurring liens, secured debt, and certain other financing arrangements. The Company is in compliance with these covenants as of June 30, 2010. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements In the normal course of business, the Company enters into contracts and commitments which obligate the Company to make payments in the future. The following table sets forth the Companys significant future obligations by time period. Purchases include commodity based contracts entered into in the normal course of business, which are further described in Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, energy related purchase contracts entered into in the normal course of business, and other purchase obligations related to the Companys normal business activities. The following table does not include unrecognized income tax benefits of $84 million as at June 30, 2010, due to uncertainty of the timing of deductibility. Where applicable, information included in the Companys consolidated financial statements and notes is cross referenced in this table. Payments Due by Period Contractual Item 8 Note Less than 1 3 3 5 More than Obligations Reference Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years (In millions) Purchases Inventories $ 9,949 $ 9,508 $ 417 $ 6 $ 18 Energy 498 284 137 31 46 Other 409 143 208 56 2 Total purchases 10,856 9,935 762 93 66 Short term debt 374 374 Long term debt Note 8 7,174 344 428 1,076 5,326 Estimated interest payments 7,928 381 700 636 6,211 Operating leases Note 13 1,381 235 371 333 442 Estimated pension and other postretirement plan contributions (1) Note 14 150 45 17 21 67 Total $ 27,863 $ 11,314 $ 2,278 $ 2,159 $ 12,112 (1) The Company is unable to estimate the amount of pension contributions beyond fiscal year 2011. For more information concerning the Companys pension and other postretirement plans, see Note 14 in Item 8. At June 30, 2010, the Company estimates it will spend approximately $1.5 billion through calendar year 2013 to complete currently approved capital projects which are not included in the table above. The Company also has outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds of $459 million at June 30, 2010. In addition, the Company has entered into agreements, primarily debt guarantee agreements related to equity method investees, which could obligate the Company to make future payments. The Companys liability under these agreements arises only if the primary entity fails to perform its contractual obligation. The Company has collateral for a portion of these contingent obligations. At June 30, 2010, these contingent obligations totaled approximately $131 million. Amounts outstanding for the primary entity under these contingent obligations were $74 million at June 30, 2010. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Critical Accounting Policies The process of preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the carrying values of the Companys assets and liabilities as well as the recognition of revenues and expenses. These estimates and judgments are based on the Companys historical experience and managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Certain of the Companys accounting policies are considered critical, as these policies are important to the depiction of the Companys financial statements and require significant or complex judgment by management. Management has discussed with the Companys Audit Committee the development, selection, disclosure, and application of these critical accounting policies. Following are the accounting policies management considers critical to the Companys financial statements. Inventories and Derivatives Certain of the Companys merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, forward fixed price purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts are valued at estimated market values. These merchandisable agricultural commodities are freely traded, have quoted market prices, and may be sold without significant additional processing. Management estimates market value based on exchange quoted prices, adjusted for differences in local markets. Changes in the market values of these inventories and contracts are recognized in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. If management used different methods or factors to estimate market value, amounts reported as inventories and cost of products sold coul d differ materially. Additionally, if market conditions change subsequent to year end, amounts reported in future periods as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. The Company, from time to time, uses derivative contracts designated as cash flow hedges to fix the purchase price of anticipated volumes of commodities to be purchased and processed in a future month, to fix the purchase price of the Companys anticipated natural gas requirements for certain production facilities, and to fix the sales price of anticipated volumes of ethanol. The change in the market value of such derivative contracts has historically been, and is expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold and net sales and other operating income in th e statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. If it is determined that the derivative instruments used are no longer effective at offsetting changes in the price of the hedged item, then the changes in the market value of these exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts would be recorded in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. Employee Benefit Plans The Company provides substantially all domestic employees and employees at certain international subsidiaries with pension benefits. Eligible domestic employees with five or more years of service prior to January 1, 2009 participate in a defined benefit pension plan. Eligible domestic employees hired on or after January 1, 2009 (and eligible salaried employees with less than five years of service prior to January 1, 2009) participate in a cash balance pension formula. The Company provides eligible domestic employees who retire under qualifying conditions with access to postretirement health care, at full cost to the retiree (certain employees are grandfather ed into subsidized coverage). In order to measure the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans, management makes several estimates and assumptions, including interest rates used to discount certain liabilities, rates of return on assets set aside to fund these plans, rates of compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and anticipated future health care costs. These estimates and assumptions are based on the Companys historical experience combined with managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Management also uses third party actuaries to assist in measuring the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans. If management used different estimates and assumptions regarding these plans, the funded status of the plans could vary significantly, and the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Income Taxes The Company frequently faces challenges from domestic and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company records reserves for estimates of potential additional tax owed by the Company. As an example, a subsidiary of the Company received a tax assessment in the amount of $456 million (subject to variation in currency exchange rates) consisting of tax, penalty, and interest from the Brazilian Federal Revenue Service challenging the deductibility of commodity hedging losses incurred by the Company in 2004. The Company evaluated its tax position rega rding these hedging transactions and concluded, based in part upon advice from Brazilian legal counsel, that it was appropriate to recognize the tax benefits of these deductions (See Note 12 in Item 8 for additional information). Deferred tax assets represent items to be used as tax deductions or credits in future tax returns, and the related tax benefit has already been recognized in the Companys income statement. The realization of the Companys deferred tax assets is dependent upon future taxable income in specific tax jurisdictions, the timing and amount of which are uncertain. The Company evaluates all available positive and negative evidence including estimated future reversals of existing temporary differences, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies, and recent financial results. Valuation allowances related to these deferred tax assets have been established to the extent the realization of the tax benefit is not likely. To the extent the Company were to favorably resolve matters for which accruals have been established or be required to pay amounts in excess of the aforementioned reserves, the Companys effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be impacted. Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and affiliated corporate joint ventures accounted for on the equity method are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned factors may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and cash flows of the Compa nys assets in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its factories. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment, technology, and companies related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. The Company evaluates goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives for impairment annually. Assets are written down after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these assets, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Valuation of Marketable Securities and Investments in Affiliates The Company classifies the majority of its marketable securities as available for sale and carries these securities at fair value. The Company applies the equity method for investments in investees over which the Company has the ability to exercise significant influence. These investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings and are adjusted, where appropriate, for amortizable basis differences between the investment balance and the underlying net assets of the investee. For publicly traded securities, the fair value of the Companys investments is readily available based on quoted market prices. For non publicly traded securities, managements assessment of fair value is based on valuation methodologies including discounted cash flows and estima tes of sales proceeds. In the event of a decline in fair value of an investment below carrying value, management is required to determine if the decline in fair value is other than temporary. In evaluating the nature of a decline in the fair value of an investment, management considers the market conditions, trends of earnings, discounted cash flows, trading volumes, and other key measures of the investment as well as the Companys ability and intent to hold the investment. When such a decline in value is deemed to be other than temporary, an impairment loss is recognized in the current period operating results to the extent of the decline. See Notes 5 and 6 in Item 8 for information regarding the Companys marketable securities and investments in affiliates. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these marketable securities, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in: commodity market prices as they relate to the Companys net commodity position, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and prices of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to factors such as changes in weather conditions, disease, plantings, government programs and policies, competition, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. To reduce price risk caused by market fluctuations, the Company generally follows a policy of using exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts to minimize its net position of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories and forward cash purchase and sales contracts. The Company will also use exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the volatility of the relationship between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contracts defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company, from time to time, enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold or net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) A sensitivity analysis has been prepared to estimate the Companys exposure to market risk of its daily net commodity position. The Companys daily net commodity position consists of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, related purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts, including those contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements. The fair value of such daily net commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing each net position at quoted futures prices. Market risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in such prices. Actual results may differ. 2010 2009 Long/(Short) Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest position $ 429 $ 43 $ 845 $ 85 Lowest position (667 ) (67 ) (1,342 ) (134 ) Average position (190 ) (19 ) (392 ) (39 ) The change in fair value of the average position for 2010 compared to 2009 was principally the result of changes in average quantities underlying the daily net commodity position. Currencies The Company conducts its business in over 60 countries. For the majority of the Companys subsidiaries located outside the United States, the local currency is the functional currency. In order to reduce the risks associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, except for amounts permanently invested as described below, the Company follows a policy of entering into currency exchange contracts to mitigate its foreign currency risk related to transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currencies applicable to each of its various entities, primarily the Euro, British pound, Canadian dollar, and Brazilian real. The instruments used are forward contracts, swaps with banks, exchange traded futures contracts, and over the counter options. The changes in marke t value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $6.4 billion at June 30, 2010, and $6.6 billion at June 30, 2009. This decrease is due to the depreciation of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar partially offset by an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The potential loss in fair value, which would principally be recognized in Other Comprehensive Income, resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $639 million and $664 million for 2010 and 2009, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical .5% decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2010 2009 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 7,700 $ 8,103 Excess of fair value over carrying value 870 511 Market risk 289 310 The decrease in fair value of long term debt in 2010 resulted principally from the repurchase of $500 million in aggregate principal amount of the Companys outstanding debentures. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements In the normal course of business, the Company enters into contracts and commitments which obligate the Company to make payments in the future. The following table sets forth the Companys significant future obligations by time period. Purchases include commodity based contracts entered into in the normal course of business, which are further described in Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, energy related purchase contracts entered into in the normal course of business, and other purchase obligations related to the Companys normal business activities. The following table does not include unrecognized income tax benefits of $84 million as at June 30, 2010, due to uncertainty of the timing of deductibility. Where applicable, information included in the Companys consolidated financial statements and notes is cross referenced in this table. Payments Due by Period Contractual Item 8 Note Less than 1 3 3 5 More than Obligations Reference Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years (In millions) Purchases Inventories $ 9,949 $ 9,508 $ 417 $ 6 $ 18 Energy 498 284 137 31 46 Other 409 143 208 56 2 Total purchases 10,856 9,935 762 93 66 Short term debt 374 374 Long term debt Note 8 7,174 344 428 1,076 5,326 Estimated interest payments 7,928 381 700 636 6,211 Operating leases Note 13 1,381 235 371 333 442 Estimated pension and other postretirement plan contributions (1) Note 14 150 45 17 21 67 Total $ 27,863 $ 11,314 $ 2,278 $ 2,159 $ 12,112 (1) The Company is unable to estimate the amount of pension contributions beyond fiscal year 2011. For more information concerning the Companys pension and other postretirement plans, see Note 14 in Item 8. At June 30, 2010, the Company estimates it will spend approximately $1.5 billion through calendar year 2013 to complete currently approved capital projects which are not included in the table above. The Company also has outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds of $459 million at June 30, 2010. In addition, the Company has entered into agreements, primarily debt guarantee agreements related to equity method investees, which could obligate the Company to make future payments. The Companys liability under these agreements arises only if the primary entity fails to perform its contractual obligation. The Company has collateral for a portion of these contingent obligations. At June 30, 2010, these contingent obligations totaled approximately $131 million. Amounts outstanding for the primary entity under these contingent obligations were $74 million at June 30, 2010. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Critical Accounting Policies The process of preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the carrying values of the Companys assets and liabilities as well as the recognition of revenues and expenses. These estimates and judgments are based on the Companys historical experience and managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Certain of the Companys accounting policies are considered critical, as these policies are important to the depiction of the Companys financial statements and require significant or complex judgment by management. Management has discussed with the Companys Audit Committee the development, selection, disclosure, and application of these critical accounting policies. Following are the accounting policies management considers critical to the Companys financial statements. Inventories and Derivatives Certain of the Companys merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, forward fixed price purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts are valued at estimated market values. These merchandisable agricultural commodities are freely traded, have quoted market prices, and may be sold without significant additional processing. Management estimates market value based on exchange quoted prices, adjusted for differences in local markets. Changes in the market values of these inventories and contracts are recognized in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. If management used different methods or factors to estimate market value, amounts reported as inventories and cost of products sold coul d differ materially. Additionally, if market conditions change subsequent to year end, amounts reported in future periods as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. The Company, from time to time, uses derivative contracts designated as cash flow hedges to fix the purchase price of anticipated volumes of commodities to be purchased and processed in a future month, to fix the purchase price of the Companys anticipated natural gas requirements for certain production facilities, and to fix the sales price of anticipated volumes of ethanol. The change in the market value of such derivative contracts has historically been, and is expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold and net sales and other operating income in th e statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. If it is determined that the derivative instruments used are no longer effective at offsetting changes in the price of the hedged item, then the changes in the market value of these exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts would be recorded in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. Employee Benefit Plans The Company provides substantially all domestic employees and employees at certain international subsidiaries with pension benefits. Eligible domestic employees with five or more years of service prior to January 1, 2009 participate in a defined benefit pension plan. Eligible domestic employees hired on or after January 1, 2009 (and eligible salaried employees with less than five years of service prior to January 1, 2009) participate in a cash balance pension formula. The Company provides eligible domestic employees who retire under qualifying conditions with access to postretirement health care, at full cost to the retiree (certain employees are grandfather ed into subsidized coverage). In order to measure the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans, management makes several estimates and assumptions, including interest rates used to discount certain liabilities, rates of return on assets set aside to fund these plans, rates of compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and anticipated future health care costs. These estimates and assumptions are based on the Companys historical experience combined with managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Management also uses third party actuaries to assist in measuring the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans. If management used different estimates and assumptions regarding these plans, the funded status of the plans could vary significantly, and the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Income Taxes The Company frequently faces challenges from domestic and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company records reserves for estimates of potential additional tax owed by the Company. As an example, a subsidiary of the Company received a tax assessment in the amount of $456 million (subject to variation in currency exchange rates) consisting of tax, penalty, and interest from the Brazilian Federal Revenue Service challenging the deductibility of commodity hedging losses incurred by the Company in 2004. The Company evaluated its tax position rega rding these hedging transactions and concluded, based in part upon advice from Brazilian legal counsel, that it was appropriate to recognize the tax benefits of these deductions (See Note 12 in Item 8 for additional information). Deferred tax assets represent items to be used as tax deductions or credits in future tax returns, and the related tax benefit has already been recognized in the Companys income statement. The realization of the Companys deferred tax assets is dependent upon future taxable income in specific tax jurisdictions, the timing and amount of which are uncertain. The Company evaluates all available positive and negative evidence including estimated future reversals of existing temporary differences, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies, and recent financial results. Valuation allowances related to these deferred tax assets have been established to the extent the realization of the tax benefit is not likely. To the extent the Company were to favorably resolve matters for which accruals have been established or be required to pay amounts in excess of the aforementioned reserves, the Companys effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be impacted. Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and affiliated corporate joint ventures accounted for on the equity method are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned factors may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and cash flows of the Compa nys assets in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its factories. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment, technology, and companies related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. The Company evaluates goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives for impairment annually. Assets are written down after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these assets, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Valuation of Marketable Securities and Investments in Affiliates The Company classifies the majority of its marketable securities as available for sale and carries these securities at fair value. The Company applies the equity method for investments in investees over which the Company has the ability to exercise significant influence. These investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings and are adjusted, where appropriate, for amortizable basis differences between the investment balance and the underlying net assets of the investee. For publicly traded securities, the fair value of the Companys investments is readily available based on quoted market prices. For non publicly traded securities, managements assessment of fair value is based on valuation methodologies including discounted cash flows and estima tes of sales proceeds. In the event of a decline in fair value of an investment below carrying value, management is required to determine if the decline in fair value is other than temporary. In evaluating the nature of a decline in the fair value of an investment, management considers the market conditions, trends of earnings, discounted cash flows, trading volumes, and other key measures of the investment as well as the Companys ability and intent to hold the investment. When such a decline in value is deemed to be other than temporary, an impairment loss is recognized in the current period operating results to the extent of the decline. See Notes 5 and 6 in Item 8 for information regarding the Companys marketable securities and investments in affiliates. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these marketable securities, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in: commodity market prices as they relate to the Companys net commodity position, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and prices of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to factors such as changes in weather conditions, disease, plantings, government programs and policies, competition, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. To reduce price risk caused by market fluctuations, the Company generally follows a policy of using exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts to minimize its net position of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories and forward cash purchase and sales contracts. The Company will also use exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the volatility of the relationship between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contracts defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company, from time to time, enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold or net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) A sensitivity analysis has been prepared to estimate the Companys exposure to market risk of its daily net commodity position. The Companys daily net commodity position consists of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, related purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts, including those contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements. The fair value of such daily net commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing each net position at quoted futures prices. Market risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in such prices. Actual results may differ. 2010 2009 Long/(Short) Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest position $ 429 $ 43 $ 845 $ 85 Lowest position (667 ) (67 ) (1,342 ) (134 ) Average position (190 ) (19 ) (392 ) (39 ) The change in fair value of the average position for 2010 compared to 2009 was principally the result of changes in average quantities underlying the daily net commodity position. Currencies The Company conducts its business in over 60 countries. For the majority of the Companys subsidiaries located outside the United States, the local currency is the functional currency. In order to reduce the risks associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, except for amounts permanently invested as described below, the Company follows a policy of entering into currency exchange contracts to mitigate its foreign currency risk related to transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currencies applicable to each of its various entities, primarily the Euro, British pound, Canadian dollar, and Brazilian real. The instruments used are forward contracts, swaps with banks, exchange traded futures contracts, and over the counter options. The changes in marke t value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $6.4 billion at June 30, 2010, and $6.6 billion at June 30, 2009. This decrease is due to the depreciation of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar partially offset by an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The potential loss in fair value, which would principally be recognized in Other Comprehensive Income, resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $639 million and $664 million for 2010 and 2009, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical .5% decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2010 2009 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 7,700 $ 8,103 Excess of fair value over carrying value 870 511 Market risk 289 310 The decrease in fair value of long term debt in 2010 resulted principally from the repurchase of $500 million in aggregate principal amount of the Companys outstanding debentures. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Critical Accounting Policies The process of preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the carrying values of the Companys assets and liabilities as well as the recognition of revenues and expenses. These estimates and judgments are based on the Companys historical experience and managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Certain of the Companys accounting policies are considered critical, as these policies are important to the depiction of the Companys financial statements and require significant or complex judgment by management. Management has discussed with the Companys Audit Committee the development, selection, disclosure, and application of these critical accounting policies. Following are the accounting policies management considers critical to the Companys financial statements. Inventories and Derivatives Certain of the Companys merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, forward fixed price purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts are valued at estimated market values. These merchandisable agricultural commodities are freely traded, have quoted market prices, and may be sold without significant additional processing. Management estimates market value based on exchange quoted prices, adjusted for differences in local markets. Changes in the market values of these inventories and contracts are recognized in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. If management used different methods or factors to estimate market value, amounts reported as inventories and cost of products sold coul d differ materially. Additionally, if market conditions change subsequent to year end, amounts reported in future periods as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. The Company, from time to time, uses derivative contracts designated as cash flow hedges to fix the purchase price of anticipated volumes of commodities to be purchased and processed in a future month, to fix the purchase price of the Companys anticipated natural gas requirements for certain production facilities, and to fix the sales price of anticipated volumes of ethanol. The change in the market value of such derivative contracts has historically been, and is expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold and net sales and other operating income in th e statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. If it is determined that the derivative instruments used are no longer effective at offsetting changes in the price of the hedged item, then the changes in the market value of these exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts would be recorded in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. Employee Benefit Plans The Company provides substantially all domestic employees and employees at certain international subsidiaries with pension benefits. Eligible domestic employees with five or more years of service prior to January 1, 2009 participate in a defined benefit pension plan. Eligible domestic employees hired on or after January 1, 2009 (and eligible salaried employees with less than five years of service prior to January 1, 2009) participate in a cash balance pension formula. The Company provides eligible domestic employees who retire under qualifying conditions with access to postretirement health care, at full cost to the retiree (certain employees are grandfather ed into subsidized coverage). In order to measure the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans, management makes several estimates and assumptions, including interest rates used to discount certain liabilities, rates of return on assets set aside to fund these plans, rates of compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and anticipated future health care costs. These estimates and assumptions are based on the Companys historical experience combined with managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Management also uses third party actuaries to assist in measuring the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans. If management used different estimates and assumptions regarding these plans, the funded status of the plans could vary significantly, and the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Income Taxes The Company frequently faces challenges from domestic and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company records reserves for estimates of potential additional tax owed by the Company. As an example, a subsidiary of the Company received a tax assessment in the amount of $456 million (subject to variation in currency exchange rates) consisting of tax, penalty, and interest from the Brazilian Federal Revenue Service challenging the deductibility of commodity hedging losses incurred by the Company in 2004. The Company evaluated its tax position rega rding these hedging transactions and concluded, based in part upon advice from Brazilian legal counsel, that it was appropriate to recognize the tax benefits of these deductions (See Note 12 in Item 8 for additional information). Deferred tax assets represent items to be used as tax deductions or credits in future tax returns, and the related tax benefit has already been recognized in the Companys income statement. The realization of the Companys deferred tax assets is dependent upon future taxable income in specific tax jurisdictions, the timing and amount of which are uncertain. The Company evaluates all available positive and negative evidence including estimated future reversals of existing temporary differences, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies, and recent financial results. Valuation allowances related to these deferred tax assets have been established to the extent the realization of the tax benefit is not likely. To the extent the Company were to favorably resolve matters for which accruals have been established or be required to pay amounts in excess of the aforementioned reserves, the Companys effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be impacted. Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and affiliated corporate joint ventures accounted for on the equity method are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned factors may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and cash flows of the Compa nys assets in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its factories. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment, technology, and companies related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. The Company evaluates goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives for impairment annually. Assets are written down after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these assets, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Valuation of Marketable Securities and Investments in Affiliates The Company classifies the majority of its marketable securities as available for sale and carries these securities at fair value. The Company applies the equity method for investments in investees over which the Company has the ability to exercise significant influence. These investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings and are adjusted, where appropriate, for amortizable basis differences between the investment balance and the underlying net assets of the investee. For publicly traded securities, the fair value of the Companys investments is readily available based on quoted market prices. For non publicly traded securities, managements assessment of fair value is based on valuation methodologies including discounted cash flows and estima tes of sales proceeds. In the event of a decline in fair value of an investment below carrying value, management is required to determine if the decline in fair value is other than temporary. In evaluating the nature of a decline in the fair value of an investment, management considers the market conditions, trends of earnings, discounted cash flows, trading volumes, and other key measures of the investment as well as the Companys ability and intent to hold the investment. When such a decline in value is deemed to be other than temporary, an impairment loss is recognized in the current period operating results to the extent of the decline. See Notes 5 and 6 in Item 8 for information regarding the Companys marketable securities and investments in affiliates. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these marketable securities, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in: commodity market prices as they relate to the Companys net commodity position, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and prices of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to factors such as changes in weather conditions, disease, plantings, government programs and policies, competition, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. To reduce price risk caused by market fluctuations, the Company generally follows a policy of using exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts to minimize its net position of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories and forward cash purchase and sales contracts. The Company will also use exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the volatility of the relationship between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contracts defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company, from time to time, enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold or net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) A sensitivity analysis has been prepared to estimate the Companys exposure to market risk of its daily net commodity position. The Companys daily net commodity position consists of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, related purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts, including those contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements. The fair value of such daily net commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing each net position at quoted futures prices. Market risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in such prices. Actual results may differ. 2010 2009 Long/(Short) Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest position $ 429 $ 43 $ 845 $ 85 Lowest position (667 ) (67 ) (1,342 ) (134 ) Average position (190 ) (19 ) (392 ) (39 ) The change in fair value of the average position for 2010 compared to 2009 was principally the result of changes in average quantities underlying the daily net commodity position. Currencies The Company conducts its business in over 60 countries. For the majority of the Companys subsidiaries located outside the United States, the local currency is the functional currency. In order to reduce the risks associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, except for amounts permanently invested as described below, the Company follows a policy of entering into currency exchange contracts to mitigate its foreign currency risk related to transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currencies applicable to each of its various entities, primarily the Euro, British pound, Canadian dollar, and Brazilian real. The instruments used are forward contracts, swaps with banks, exchange traded futures contracts, and over the counter options. The changes in marke t value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $6.4 billion at June 30, 2010, and $6.6 billion at June 30, 2009. This decrease is due to the depreciation of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar partially offset by an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The potential loss in fair value, which would principally be recognized in Other Comprehensive Income, resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $639 million and $664 million for 2010 and 2009, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical .5% decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2010 2009 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 7,700 $ 8,103 Excess of fair value over carrying value 870 511 Market risk 289 310 The decrease in fair value of long term debt in 2010 resulted principally from the repurchase of $500 million in aggregate principal amount of the Companys outstanding debentures. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Income Taxes The Company frequently faces challenges from domestic and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company records reserves for estimates of potential additional tax owed by the Company. As an example, a subsidiary of the Company received a tax assessment in the amount of $456 million (subject to variation in currency exchange rates) consisting of tax, penalty, and interest from the Brazilian Federal Revenue Service challenging the deductibility of commodity hedging losses incurred by the Company in 2004. The Company evaluated its tax position rega rding these hedging transactions and concluded, based in part upon advice from Brazilian legal counsel, that it was appropriate to recognize the tax benefits of these deductions (See Note 12 in Item 8 for additional information). Deferred tax assets represent items to be used as tax deductions or credits in future tax returns, and the related tax benefit has already been recognized in the Companys income statement. The realization of the Companys deferred tax assets is dependent upon future taxable income in specific tax jurisdictions, the timing and amount of which are uncertain. The Company evaluates all available positive and negative evidence including estimated future reversals of existing temporary differences, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies, and recent financial results. Valuation allowances related to these deferred tax assets have been established to the extent the realization of the tax benefit is not likely. To the extent the Company were to favorably resolve matters for which accruals have been established or be required to pay amounts in excess of the aforementioned reserves, the Companys effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be impacted. Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and affiliated corporate joint ventures accounted for on the equity method are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned factors may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and cash flows of the Compa nys assets in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its factories. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment, technology, and companies related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. The Company evaluates goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives for impairment annually. Assets are written down after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these assets, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Valuation of Marketable Securities and Investments in Affiliates The Company classifies the majority of its marketable securities as available for sale and carries these securities at fair value. The Company applies the equity method for investments in investees over which the Company has the ability to exercise significant influence. These investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings and are adjusted, where appropriate, for amortizable basis differences between the investment balance and the underlying net assets of the investee. For publicly traded securities, the fair value of the Companys investments is readily available based on quoted market prices. For non publicly traded securities, managements assessment of fair value is based on valuation methodologies including discounted cash flows and estima tes of sales proceeds. In the event of a decline in fair value of an investment below carrying value, management is required to determine if the decline in fair value is other than temporary. In evaluating the nature of a decline in the fair value of an investment, management considers the market conditions, trends of earnings, discounted cash flows, trading volumes, and other key measures of the investment as well as the Companys ability and intent to hold the investment. When such a decline in value is deemed to be other than temporary, an impairment loss is recognized in the current period operating results to the extent of the decline. See Notes 5 and 6 in Item 8 for information regarding the Companys marketable securities and investments in affiliates. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these marketable securities, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in: commodity market prices as they relate to the Companys net commodity position, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and prices of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to factors such as changes in weather conditions, disease, plantings, government programs and policies, competition, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. To reduce price risk caused by market fluctuations, the Company generally follows a policy of using exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts to minimize its net position of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories and forward cash purchase and sales contracts. The Company will also use exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the volatility of the relationship between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contracts defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company, from time to time, enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold or net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) A sensitivity analysis has been prepared to estimate the Companys exposure to market risk of its daily net commodity position. The Companys daily net commodity position consists of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, related purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts, including those contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements. The fair value of such daily net commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing each net position at quoted futures prices. Market risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in such prices. Actual results may differ. 2010 2009 Long/(Short) Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest position $ 429 $ 43 $ 845 $ 85 Lowest position (667 ) (67 ) (1,342 ) (134 ) Average position (190 ) (19 ) (392 ) (39 ) The change in fair value of the average position for 2010 compared to 2009 was principally the result of changes in average quantities underlying the daily net commodity position. Currencies The Company conducts its business in over 60 countries. For the majority of the Companys subsidiaries located outside the United States, the local currency is the functional currency. In order to reduce the risks associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, except for amounts permanently invested as described below, the Company follows a policy of entering into currency exchange contracts to mitigate its foreign currency risk related to transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currencies applicable to each of its various entities, primarily the Euro, British pound, Canadian dollar, and Brazilian real. The instruments used are forward contracts, swaps with banks, exchange traded futures contracts, and over the counter options. The changes in marke t value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $6.4 billion at June 30, 2010, and $6.6 billion at June 30, 2009. This decrease is due to the depreciation of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar partially offset by an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The potential loss in fair value, which would principally be recognized in Other Comprehensive Income, resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $639 million and $664 million for 2010 and 2009, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical .5% decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2010 2009 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 7,700 $ 8,103 Excess of fair value over carrying value 870 511 Market risk 289 310 The decrease in fair value of long term debt in 2010 resulted principally from the repurchase of $500 million in aggregate principal amount of the Companys outstanding debentures. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Valuation of Marketable Securities and Investments in Affiliates The Company classifies the majority of its marketable securities as available for sale and carries these securities at fair value. The Company applies the equity method for investments in investees over which the Company has the ability to exercise significant influence. These investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings and are adjusted, where appropriate, for amortizable basis differences between the investment balance and the underlying net assets of the investee. For publicly traded securities, the fair value of the Companys investments is readily available based on quoted market prices. For non publicly traded securities, managements assessment of fair value is based on valuation methodologies including discounted cash flows and estima tes of sales proceeds. In the event of a decline in fair value of an investment below carrying value, management is required to determine if the decline in fair value is other than temporary. In evaluating the nature of a decline in the fair value of an investment, management considers the market conditions, trends of earnings, discounted cash flows, trading volumes, and other key measures of the investment as well as the Companys ability and intent to hold the investment. When such a decline in value is deemed to be other than temporary, an impairment loss is recognized in the current period operating results to the extent of the decline. See Notes 5 and 6 in Item 8 for information regarding the Companys marketable securities and investments in affiliates. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these marketable securities, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in: commodity market prices as they relate to the Companys net commodity position, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and prices of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to factors such as changes in weather conditions, disease, plantings, government programs and policies, competition, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. To reduce price risk caused by market fluctuations, the Company generally follows a policy of using exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts to minimize its net position of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories and forward cash purchase and sales contracts. The Company will also use exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the volatility of the relationship between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contracts defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company, from time to time, enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold or net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) A sensitivity analysis has been prepared to estimate the Companys exposure to market risk of its daily net commodity position. The Companys daily net commodity position consists of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, related purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts, including those contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements. The fair value of such daily net commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing each net position at quoted futures prices. Market risk is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in such prices. Actual results may differ. 2010 2009 Long/(Short) Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest position $ 429 $ 43 $ 845 $ 85 Lowest position (667 ) (67 ) (1,342 ) (134 ) Average position (190 ) (19 ) (392 ) (39 ) The change in fair value of the average position for 2010 compared to 2009 was principally the result of changes in average quantities underlying the daily net commodity position. Currencies The Company conducts its business in over 60 countries. For the majority of the Companys subsidiaries located outside the United States, the local currency is the functional currency. In order to reduce the risks associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, except for amounts permanently invested as described below, the Company follows a policy of entering into currency exchange contracts to mitigate its foreign currency risk related to transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currencies applicable to each of its various entities, primarily the Euro, British pound, Canadian dollar, and Brazilian real. The instruments used are forward contracts, swaps with banks, exchange traded futures contracts, and over the counter options. The changes in marke t value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $6.4 billion at June 30, 2010, and $6.6 billion at June 30, 2009. This decrease is due to the depreciation of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar partially offset by an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The potential loss in fair value, which would principally be recognized in Other Comprehensive Income, resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $639 million and $664 million for 2010 and 2009, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical .5% decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2010 2009 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 7,700 $ 8,103 Excess of fair value over carrying value 870 511 Market risk 289 310 The decrease in fair value of long term debt in 2010 resulted principally from the repurchase of $500 million in aggregate principal amount of the Companys outstanding debentures. 
 
