Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Company Overview This MD&A should be read in conjunction with the accompanying consolidated financial statements. The Company is principally engaged in procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. The Company uses its significant global asset base to originate and transport agricultural commodities, connecting to markets in more than 75 countries. The Company also processes corn, oilseeds, wheat and cocoa into products for food, animal feed, chemical and energy uses. The Company uses its global asset network, business acumen, and its relationships with suppliers and customers to generate returns for our shareholders, principally from margins earned on these activities. The Companys operations are organized, managed and classified into three reportable business segments: Oilseeds Processing, Corn Processing, and Agricultural Services. Each of these segments is organized based upon the nature of products and services offered. The Companys remaining operations, which include wheat processing, cocoa processing, and its financial business units, are not reportable segments, as defined by the applicable accounting standard, and are classified as Other. The Oilseeds Processing segment includes activities related to the origination, merchandising, crushing, and further processing of oilseeds such as soybeans and soft seeds (cottonseed, sunflower seed, canola, rapeseed, and flaxseed) into vegetable oils and protein meals. Oilseeds products produced and marketed by the Company include ingredients for the food, feed, energy, and other industrial products industries. Crude vegetable oils produced by the segments crushing activities are sold as is or are further processed by refining, blending, bleaching, and deodorizing into salad oils. Salad oils are sold as is or are further processed by hydrogenating and or interesterifying into margarine, shortening, and other food products. Partially refined oils are used to produce biodiesel or are sold to other manufacturers for use in chemicals, paints, and other industrial products. Oilseed protein meals are principally sold to third parties to be used as ingredients in commercial livestock and poultry feeds. The Oilseeds Processing segment also produces natural health and nutrition products and other specialty food and feed ingredients. In North America, cottonseed flour is produced and sold primarily to the pharmaceutical industry and cotton cellulose pulp is manufactured and sold to the chemical, paper, and filter markets. In Europe and South America, the Oilseeds Processing segment includes origination and merchandising activities of a network of grain elevators, port facilities, and transportation assets used to buy, store, clean, and transport agricultural commodities, as adjuncts to its oilseeds processing assets. In South America, the Oilseeds Processing segment operates fertilizer blending facilities. Effective December 31, 2010, the Company acquired Alimenta (USA) Inc., and as a result of the transaction, now owns 100% of Golden Peanut, the leading U.S. peanut sheller and oil refiner and operator of one peanut shelling facility in Argentina. The Oilseeds Processing segment began consolidating the operating results of Golden Peanut, its previously 50% owned joint venture, in the third quarter of fiscal 2011. The Oilseeds Processing segment also includes the Companys share of the results of its equity investment in Wilmar and its share of results for its Edible Oils Limited and Stratas Foods, LLC joint ventures. ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) The Companys Corn Processing segment is engaged in corn wet milling and dry milling activities, with its asset base primarily located in the central part of the United States. The Corn Processing segment converts corn into sweeteners and starches, and bioproducts. Its products include ingredients used in the food and beverage industry including sweeteners, starch, syrup, glucose, and dextrose. Dextrose and starch are used by the Corn Processing segment as feedstocks for its bioproducts operations. By fermentation of dextrose, the Corn Processing segment produces alcohol, amino acids, and other specialty food and animal feed ingredients. Ethyl alcohol is produced by the Company for industrial use as ethanol or as beverage grade. Ethanol, in gasoline, increases octane and is used as an extender and oxygenate. Bioproducts also include amino acids such as lysine and threonine that are vital compounds used in swine feeds to produce leaner animals and in poultry feeds to enhance the speed and efficiency of poultry production. Corn gluten feed and meal, as well as distillers grains, are produced for use as animal feed ingredients. Corn germ, a by product of the wet milling process, is further processed into vegetable oil and protein meal. Other Corn Processing products include citric and lactic acids, lactates, sorbitol, xanthan gum, and glycols which are used in various food and industrial products. The Corn Processing segment includes the activities of the Companys Brazilian sugarcane operations, propylene and ethylene glycol facility, a bioplastic facility, and other equity investments in renewable plastics. This segment includes the Companys share of the results of its equity investments in Almidones Mexicanos S.A., Eaststarch C.V., and Red Star Yeast Company LLC. The Agricultural Services segment utilizes its extensive U.S. grain elevator and global transportation network to buy, store, clean, and transport agricultural commodities, such as oilseeds, corn, wheat, milo, oats, rice, and barley, and resells these commodities primarily as food and feed ingredients and as raw materials for the agricultural processing industry. Agricultural Services grain sourcing and transportation network provides reliable and efficient services to the Companys customers and agricultural processing operations. Agricultural Services transportation network capabilities include truck, rail, barge, port, and ocean going vessel handling and freight services. The Agricultural Services segment includes the activities of Alfred C. Toepfer International, an 80% owned global merchant of agricultural commodities and processed products. The Agricultural Services segment also includes the Companys share of the results of its Kalama Export Company joint venture, activities related to the processing and distributing of formula feeds and animal health and nutrition products, and the procuring, processing, and distributing of edible beans. Other includes the Companys remaining processing operations, consisting of activities related to processing agricultural commodities into food ingredient products such as wheat into wheat flour, and cocoa into chocolate and cocoa products. Other also includes financial activities related to banking, captive insurance, futures commission merchant activities, private equity fund investments, and the Companys share of the results of its equity investment in Gruma S.A.B de C.V. Corporate results principally include the impact of LIFO related inventory adjustments, unallocated corporate expenses, unallocated net interest costs, and the after tax elimination of income attributable to mandatorily redeemable interests in consolidated subsidiaries. Operating Performance Indicators The Companys oilseeds processing, agricultural services, and wheat processing operations are principally agricultural commodity based businesses where changes in selling prices move in relationship to changes in prices of the commodity based agricultural raw materials. Therefore, changes in agricultural commodity prices have relatively equal impacts on both net sales and other operating income and cost of products sold. Thus, changes in margins and gross profit of these businesses do not necessarily correspond to the changes in net sales and other operating income amounts. The Companys corn processing operations and certain other food and animal feed processing operations also utilize agricultural commodities (or products derived from agricultural commodities) as raw materials. In these operations, agricultural commodity market price changes can result in significant fluctuations in cost of products sold, and such price changes cannot necessarily be passed directly through to the selling price of the finished products. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) The Company conducts its business in over 75 countries. For the majority of the Companys subsidiaries located outside the United States, the local currency is the functional currency. Revenues and expenses denominated in foreign currencies are translated into U.S. dollars at the weighted average exchange rates for the applicable periods. For the majority of the Companys business activities in Brazil, the functional currency is the U.S. dollar, however certain transactions, including taxes, occur in local currency and require conversion to the functional currency. Fluctuations in the exchange rates of foreign currencies, primarily the Euro, British pound, Canadian dollar, and Brazilian real, as compared to the U.S. dollar can result in corresponding fluctuations in the U.S. dollar value of revenues and expenses reported by the Company. The Company measures the performance of its business segments using key financial metrics such as segment operating profit, return on invested capital, and cost per metric ton. The Companys operating results can vary significantly due to changes in factors such as fluctuations in energy prices, weather conditions, crop plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth, general global economic conditions, changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. Due to these unpredictable factors, the Company does not provide forward looking information in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 2011 Compared to 2010 As an agricultural commodity based business, the Company is subject to a variety of market factors which affect the Companys operating results. In 2011, prices for certain agricultural commodities were higher in response to growing global demand and tighter crop supplies. The projections of lower 2011 carryover stocks for certain key commodities, coupled with regional crop supply dislocations for certain commodities, also led to high commodity price volatility. Global demand for agricultural commodities grew in 2011, resulting in increased sales volumes for most of the Companys products. The large 2010 North American harvest resulted in global merchandising, handling, and processing opportunities. Protein meal markets for commercial livestock producers in the U.S., particularly poultry producers, faced challenging conditions. Biodiesel markets in Europe and South America, together with the 2011 extension of the U.S. biodiesel blenders credit, helped support global demand for refined and crude vegetable oils. Sweeteners and starches demand remained strong in 2011 due primarily to U.S. exports of sweeteners and improved demand for industrial starches. Ethanol sales volumes, including increased volumes as the Companys new dry mills ramped up, were supported by favorable gasoline blending economics in the U.S. and good export demand. Net earnings increased $106 million to $2.0 billion due principally to a $782 million increase in segment operating profit partially offset by a negative impact from changing LIFO inventory valuations and higher income taxes. In 2011, the Company successfully managed through significant increases in market prices for most of its agricultural commodity raw materials, resulting in increased segment operating profit. Earnings before income taxes includes charges of $368 million from the effect of increasing agricultural commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuation reserves, compared to credits of $42 million in the prior year caused by decreasing agricultural commodity prices. Income taxes increased $331 million due to a higher effective income tax rate and higher earnings before income taxes. The effective income tax rate of 33.1% for 2011 was the result of changes in the geographic mix of earnings and unfavorable specific tax items. The fully diluted earnings per share calculation for 2011 was impacted by the completion of the Companys debt remarketing related to the $1.75 billion Equity Units. While the approximately 44 million new common shares related to the $1.75 billion Equity Units were not issued until June 1, 2011, the if converted method of accounting for diluted earnings per share required diluted EPS to be calculated as if the Company issued the shares on January 1, 2011, and this assumption resulted in a dilutive impact of $0.04 on earnings per share (See Note 9 in the accompanying consolidated financial statements). Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Analysis of Statements of Earnings Prior year net sales and other operating income by segment has been reclassified to conform to the current years presentation resulting in reclassified net sales and other operating income at the segment level with no impact to total net sales and other operating income or operating profit. Net sales and other operating income by segment are as follows: 2011 2010 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing and Origination $ 16,924 $ 14,487 $ 2,437 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel and Other 9,476 7,133 2,343 Asia 262 190 72 Total Oilseeds Processing 26,662 21,810 4,852 Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 3,766 3,264 502 Bioproducts 6,142 4,610 1,532 Total Corn Processing 9,908 7,874 2,034 Agricultural Services Merchandising and Handling 37,705 26,589 11,116 Transportation 222 167 55 Total Agricultural Services 37,927 26,756 11,171 Other Processing 6,069 5,147 922 Financial 110 95 15 Total Other 6,179 5,242 937 Total $ 80,676 $ 61,682 $ 18,994 Net sales and other operating income increased $19.0 billion, or 31%, to $80.7 billion. Net sales and other operating income increased $14.2 billion due to higher average selling prices, primarily related to higher underlying commodity costs, and increased $4.8 billion due to increased sales volumes, including sales volumes from acquisitions. Agricultural Services sales increased 42% to $37.9 billion due to higher average selling prices of agricultural commodities and higher global sales volumes. Oilseeds Processing sales increased 22% to $26.7 billion primarily due to higher average selling prices for vegetable oils, soybeans, biodiesel, and protein meal. Corn Processing sales increased 26% to $9.9 billion due to higher average selling prices and increased sales volumes of ethanol and other corn products, in part due to the Companys two new ethanol dry mills coming on line. Other sales increased 18% to $6.2 billion primarily due to higher average selling prices of cocoa and cocoa products and wheat flour; and increased sales volumes of cocoa and cocoa products. ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Cost of products sold increased 32% to $76.4 billion due to higher costs of agricultural commodities, negative impacts resulting from changes in LIFO inventory valuations, and higher manufacturing costs. Cost of products sold includes charges of $368 million from the effect of increasing agricultural commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuation reserves, compared to credits of $42 million in the prior year caused by decreasing agricultural commodity prices. Manufacturing expenses increased $410 million due primarily to higher processed volumes, including the volumes of the Companys new greenfield operations coming on line, and higher average unit costs for certain chemicals and fuels used in the Companys processing and transportation operations. During the second quarter of fiscal 2011, the Company updated its estimates for service lives of certain of its machinery and equipment assets. This change in estimate resulted in a $133 million decrease in depreciation expense compared to the amount of depreciation expense the Company would have recorded using the previously estimated service lives. Manufacturing expenses included $94 million in fiscal 2011 related to the start up of new plants compared to $110 million in the prior year. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased 15% to $1.6 billion. This increase was due to higher employee related costs and higher administrative expenses. Higher employee related costs principally reflect the increase in number of employees during the year and included higher salaries and wages, higher accruals for performance based compensation and higher benefit expenses. Equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates declined 3% to $542 million. The decline in earnings from the Companys equity investee, Wilmar, were partially offset by higher earnings of the Companys equity investee, Gruma, in part due to a gain on disposition of assets. Interest income increased 8% to $136 million principally resulting from higher interest earned on advances to affiliates. Interest expense increased 14% to $482 million. Interest costs capitalized as a component of major construction projects in progress was $7 million compared to $75 million in the prior year. Interest incurred on long term debt declined $24 million as a result of debt retirements while interest incurred on short term debt increased $15 million due to higher average borrowings driven by higher working capital requirements. Other (income) expense net increased $255 million primarily due to the $71 million gain resulting from the revaluation of the Companys previously held equity interest in Golden Peanut upon acquisition of the remaining 50% interest, gains on interest rate swaps of $30 million compared to a loss of $59 million in the prior year, and a decrease in charges related to early extinguishment of debt from $75 million in the prior year to $15 million in the current year. Income taxes increased $331 million to $997 million due to a higher effective income tax rate and higher pretax earnings. The Companys effective income tax rate increased to 33.1% during 2011 compared to 25.8% in fiscal 2010. The increase in the current year rate is primarily due to a geographic mix of earnings that shifted more to the U.S., a higher U.S. effective income tax rate, income tax expense associated with foreign currency re measurement of non monetary assets in Brazil, and adjustments to deferred income tax balances. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Operating profit by segment is as follows: 2011 2010 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing and Origination $ 1,013 $ 818 $ 195 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel and Other 329 291 38 Asia 182 291 (109 ) Total Oilseeds Processing 1,524 1,400 124 Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 320 529 (209 ) Bioproducts 742 193 549 Total Corn Processing 1,062 722 340 Agricultural Services Merchandising and Handling 818 583 235 Transportation 104 85 19 Total Agricultural Services 922 668 254 Other Processing 474 403 71 Financial 39 46 (7 ) Total Other 513 449 64 Total Segment Operating Profit 4,021 3,239 782 Corporate (see below) (1,006 ) (654 ) (352 ) Earnings Before Income Taxes $ 3,015 $ 2,585 $ 430 Corporate results are as follows: 2011 2010 Change (In millions) LIFO credit (charge) $ (368 ) $ 42 $ (410 ) Unallocated interest expense net (335 ) (283 ) (52 ) Unallocated corporate costs (326 ) (266 ) (60 ) Charges on early extinguishment of debt (8 ) (75 ) 67 Gains (losses) on interest rate swaps 30 (59 ) 89 Other 1 (13 ) 14 Total Corporate $ (1,006 ) $ (654 ) $ (352 ) Oilseeds Processing operating profit increased 9% to $1.5 billion. Crushing and origination results increased $195 million to $1.0 billion, which include the $71 million gain on the revaluation of the Companys equity interest in Golden Peanut as a result of the acquisition of the remaining 50% interest. Improved North American crushing results, particularly for cotton seed and canola, were partially offset by lower crushing margins in South America and Europe. Margins globally were enhanced by good positioning and by improved origination results. In South America, fertilizer results improved due to higher margins and volumes. Refining, packaging, biodiesel and other results increased $38 million to $329 million due principally to higher packaged oils margins and improved North American and European biodiesel results. Asia results decreased $109 million due principally to decreased earnings from the Companys equity investee, Wilmar. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Corn Processing operating profit increased 47% to $1.1 billion, which includes favorable impacts from ownership positions, which were allocated to sweeteners and starches and bioproducts based on total grind. Sweeteners and starches operating profit decreased $209 million to $320 million due to higher net corn costs partially offset by higher sales volumes. Sales volumes increased due to U.S. export shipments of sweeteners and improved U.S. demand for industrial starches. Bioproducts operating profit improved $549 million primarily due to higher ethanol sales volumes and higher average selling prices leading to increased ethanol and lysine margins. Bioproducts margins were also enhanced by favorable corn ownership positions. Bioproducts results included startup costs related to the Companys new plants of $94 million in the current year compared to $107 million in the prior year. Agricultural Services operating profit increased 38% to $922 million. Merchandising and handling results increased due to higher corn and wheat sales volumes and higher margins. A large 2010 U.S. harvest combined with strong international demand resulted in higher U.S. export shipments. Merchandising and handling results this year include an insurance recovery of $67 million related to property damage and business interruption resulting from an October 2008 explosion at the Companys Destrehan, Louisiana export facility. International merchandising results were weaker in part due to positions impacted by unexpected shifts in crop supply caused by weather conditions and government actions in the Black Sea region. Transportation results increased $19 million to $104 million primarily due to higher barge freight rates and higher barge utilization levels, in part due to higher U.S. export volumes. Other operating profit increased 14% to $513 million. Other processing operating results improved in the Companys wheat milling and cocoa business units due principally to increased equity earnings from the Companys equity investee, Gruma, which include a $78 million gain related to the disposal of Gruma assets. Other financial operating profit decreased $7 million primarily due to higher captive insurance loss provisions principally related to a $67 million loss related to the Companys Destrehan, Louisiana export facility insurance claim. Corporate results decreased $352 million primarily due to the negative impact from changing LIFO inventory valuations and higher unallocated interest expense net. The effects of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory reserves resulted in charges of $368 million compared to credits of $42 million for the prior year. Corporate unallocated interest expense increased $52 million mostly due to lower capitalization of interest costs for construction projects in progress. Partially offsetting the higher LIFO and unallocated interest costs were $30 million of gains on interest rate swaps compared to prior year losses on interest rate swaps of $59 million. In addition, the prior year included charges of $75 million on early debt extinguishment compared to $8 million of similar charges in the current year. 2010 Compared to 2009 As an agricultural commodity based business, the Company is subject to a variety of market factors which affect the Companys operating results. Market expectations throughout most of fiscal 2010 for fewer global crop supply and demand imbalances, coupled with continuing uncertainty about short term demand, led to generally lower and less volatile agricultural commodity market prices and conditions. In addition, the late, extended U.S. harvest reduced profit opportunities. North American oilseed exports and U.S. crushing volumes were enhanced in 2010 by the poor supply of 2009 crop year soybeans in South America. Increased government mandates for the use of biodiesel in South America and Europe resulted in increased biodiesel demand and helped keep overall demand for refined and crude vegetable oil steady in these regions. However, in North America, demand for vegetable oils remained weak in 2010 due to low consumption of oils in the food service and biodiesel industries, in part due to the expiration of the biodiesel blending credit in the U.S. on January 1, 2010. Soybean protein meal demand improved, particularly in Asia. Market prices for corn decreased in 2010 resulting in lower raw material costs for corn processing and decreased average selling prices for sweeteners and starches. Lower energy, fuel and chemical costs per unit positively impacted the Companys manufacturing costs. More favorable ethanol blending economics together with increased ethanol merchandising activity resulted in increased demand, higher ethanol sales volumes, and improved margins. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Earnings before income taxes for 2010 include a credit of $42 million from the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations, compared to a credit of $517 million in 2009. Income taxes decreased $146 million due to a lower effective income tax rate, partially offset by higher pretax earnings. Income taxes for 2009 included a $158 million charge resulting from the restructuring of a holding company in which the Company holds a portion of its equity investment in Wilmar. Analysis of Statements of Earnings Net sales and other operating income by segment for 2010 and 2009 have been reclassified to conform to the current years presentation resulting in reclassified net sales and other operating income at the segment level with no impact to total net sales and other operating income or operating profit. Net sales and other operating income by segment are as follows: 2010 2009 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing and Origination $ 14,487 $ 15,013 $ (526 ) Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel and Other 7,133 8,756 (1,623 ) Asia 190 179 11 Total Oilseeds Processing 21,810 23,948 (2,138 ) Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 3,264 3,690 (426 ) Bioproducts 4,610 3,938 672 Total Corn Processing 7,874 7,628 246 Agricultural Services Merchandising and Handling 26,589 32,007 (5,418 ) Transportation 167 242 (75 ) Total Agricultural Services 26,756 32,249 (5,493 ) Other Processing 5,147 5,272 (125 ) Financial 95 110 (15 ) Total Other 5,242 5,382 (140 ) Total $ 61,682 $ 69,207 $ (7,525 ) Net sales and other operating income decreased 11% to $61.7 billion due principally to lower average selling prices in 2010 in line with year over year declines in underlying commodity costs. Oilseeds Processing sales decreased 9% to $21.8 billion, due principally to lower average selling prices for soybeans, protein meal, refined oil, and biodiesel partially offset by increased sales volumes of soybeans and fertilizer. Corn Processing sales increased 3% to $7.9 billion primarily as a result of increased sales volumes of ethanol and lysine partially offset by lower average selling prices of ethanol, sweeteners, and starches. Agricultural Services sales decreased 17% to $26.8 billion, due to lower average selling prices, in line with year over year declines in underlying commodity prices and lower sales volumes. Other sales decreased 3% to $5.2 billion, primarily due to lower average selling prices of wheat flour partially offset by increased wheat flour sales volumes and higher average selling prices and sales volumes for cocoa products. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Cost of products sold decreased 11% to $57.8 billion, due principally to decreased agricultural commodity costs including the impact of changes in LIFO inventory valuations which reduced cost of products sold by $42 million in 2010 compared to $517 million in 2009. Manufacturing expenses decreased 1% or $60 million, primarily due to lower energy, chemical and fuel costs partially offset by higher employee related costs and a $124 million increase in depreciation and amortization expense. In 2010, manufacturing expenses included additional costs associated with the Companys new greenfield plants. Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased 1% to $1.4 billion, due principally to decreased provisions for doubtful accounts partially offset by increased expenses for legal, professional, and commercial services. Equity earnings of unconsolidated affiliates increased $416 million to $561 million primarily due to the absence of a non cash charge of $275 million in 2009 related to currency derivative losses of the Companys equity investee, Gruma S.A.B. de C.V. Interest income declined $55 million to $126 million primarily due to lower average interest rates. Interest expense declined $47 million to $422 million primarily due to lower average interest rates. Other expense net increased $91 million due to pre tax charges of $75 million related to the early extinguishment of debt and $59 million for unrealized losses on interest rate swaps (for more information on the charges related to the early extinguishment of debt, see Note 8 in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data). Income taxes decreased $146 million due to a lower effective income tax rate partially offset by higher pretax earnings. The Companys effective income tax rate during 2010 was 25.8%. In 2009, the effective income tax rate was 32.5% which included $158 million of income tax charges related to the partial restructuring of the holding company structure through which the Company holds a portion of its equity investment in Wilmar. Excluding these Wilmar charges, the Companys effective income tax rate for 2009 was 26.2%. For more information concerning Wilmar tax matters see Note 13 in Item 8. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Operating profit by segment is as follows: 2010 2009 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing and Origination $ 818 $ 767 $ 51 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel and Other 291 265 26 Asia 291 248 43 Total Oilseeds Processing 1,400 1,280 120 Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 529 500 29 Bioproducts 193 (315 ) 508 Total Corn Processing 722 185 537 Agricultural Services Merchandising and Handling 583 832 (249 ) Transportation 85 162 (77 ) Total Agricultural Services 668 994 (326 ) Other Processing 403 51 352 Financial 46 (57 ) 103 Total Other 449 (6 ) 455 Total Segment Operating Profit 3,239 2,453 786 Corporate (see below) (654 ) 47 (701 ) Earnings Before Income Taxes $ 2,585 $ 2,500 $ 85 Corporate results are as follows: 2010 2009 Change (In millions) LIFO credit $ 42 $ 517 $ (475 ) Unallocated interest expense net (283 ) (192 ) (91 ) Unallocated corporate costs (266 ) (252 ) (14 ) Charges on early extinguishment of debt (75 ) (75 ) Unrealized losses on interest rate swaps (59 ) (59 ) Other (13 ) (26 ) 13 Total Corporate $ (654 ) $ 47 $ (701 ) Oilseeds Processing operating profit increased 9% to $1.4 billion. Crushing and origination results increased $51 million due to higher North American soybean crushing margins and favorable soft seed commodity positioning, partially offset by lower soybean crushing margins in Europe and South America. Refining, packaging, biodiesel and other operating profit increased $26 million due primarily to higher South American biodiesel results and improved margins in Europe. Oilseeds processing results in Asia increased $43 million to $291 million due principally to improved equity earnings of Wilmar. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Corn Processing operating profit increased $537 million to $722 million. Bioproducts operating profit increased $508 million due to improved ethanol and lysine sales volumes and improved ethanol margins resulting from lower net corn costs and decreased manufacturing costs. Ethanol sales volumes increased due to favorable gasoline blending economics and increased merchandising activity. Sweeteners and starches operating profit increased $29 million due to lower net corn and manufacturing costs due principally to lower energy and chemical prices. These lower manufacturing costs were partially offset by lower average selling prices. Agricultural Services operating profit decreased $326 million to $668 million. Merchandising and handling results decreased $249 million. Enhanced volume and margin opportunities created by 2009s volatile commodity markets and tight credit markets did not recur. Volumes and margins in 2010 benefited from strong demand for U.S. soybean exports following the short South American 2009 crop. Transportation results decreased $77 million due to lower barge freight rates and decreased barge utilization levels resulting from weaker U.S. economic conditions and the late, extended North American harvest. Other operating profit increased $455 million to $449 million. Other processing operating profit increased $352 million due to improved equity earnings from the Companys investment in Gruma, improved wheat milling margins, and improved cocoa processing results. Financial operating profit increased $103 million due primarily to the absence of losses experienced in 2009 from managed fund investments and captive insurance operations. Corporate results decreased $701 million. The effects of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations resulted in a credit of $42 million for the year ended June 30, 2010, compared to a credit of $517 million for the year ended June 30, 2009. Unallocated interest expense net increased $91 million reflecting a reduction in corporate interest income caused by lower short term interest rates and lower working capital requirements of the operating segments. In March 2010, the Company repurchased $500 million of long term debt which generated a $75 million pretax charge on early extinguishment of debt. In connection with a debt remarketing planned for 2011, the Company entered into interest rate swaps to fix the interest rate on a portion of the planned remarketing which resulted in $59 million of unrealized losses on interest rate swaps. Liquidity and Capital Resources A Company objective is to have sufficient liquidity, balance sheet strength, and financial flexibility to fund the operating and capital requirements of a capital intensive agricultural commodity based business. The primary source of funds to finance the Companys operations and capital expenditures is cash generated by operations. In addition, the Company maintains a commercial paper borrowing facility and has access to equity and debt capital from public and private sources in both U.S. and international markets. At June 30, 2011, the Company had $1.4 billion of cash, cash equivalents, and short term marketable securities and a current ratio, defined as current assets divided by current liabilities, of 2.1 to 1. Included in working capital is $7.1 billion of readily marketable commodity inventories. Cash used in operating activities was $2.3 billion for the year compared to cash provided by operating activities of $2.7 billion last year. Working capital increased in the current year due principally to higher agricultural commodity market prices. Cash used in investing activities of $1.7 billion, principally for capital expenditures, businesses acquired, and investments, was in line with last year. Cash provided by financing activities was $3.6 billion for the year compared to cash used in financing activities of $1.0 billion last year. Net borrowings increased primarily to fund higher working capital. Short term borrowings increased due principally to higher commercial paper borrowings, and long term borrowings increased primarily as a result of the issuance of $1.5 billion of 18 month floating rate notes in February 2011. In addition, the Company issued common stock and received $1.75 billion under the forward stock purchase component of the Companys Equity Units (see Note 8 in Item 8). At June 30, 2011, the Companys capital resources included net worth of $18.8 billion and lines of credit totaling $6.9 billion, of which $5.7 billion was unused. The Companys ratio of long term debt to total capital (the sum of the Companys long term debt and shareholders equity) was 30% at June 30, 2011 and 32% at June 30, 2010. This ratio is a measure of the Companys long term indebtedness and is an indicator of financial flexibility. Of the Companys total lines of credit, $4.6 billion support a commercial paper borrowing facility, against which there were $620 million of commercial paper outstanding at June 30, 2011. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) The Company has outstanding $1.15 billion principal amount of convertible senior notes. As of June 30, 2011, none of the conditions permitting conversion of these notes had been satisfied. The Company has purchased call options and warrants intended to reduce the potential shareholder dilution upon future conversion of the notes. As of June 30, 2011, the market price of the Companys common stock was not greater than the exercise price of the purchased call options or warrants related to the convertible senior notes. On July 1, 2011, the Company entered into a 364 day accounts receivable securitization facility. The facility provides the Company with up to $1.0 billion in liquidity. Under the facility, the Companys U.S. originated trade accounts receivable are sold to a wholly owned bankruptcy remote entity which then sells an undivided interest in the receivable as a collateral for any borrowings under the facility. Any borrowings under the facility will be recorded as secured borrowings. As of August 24, 2011, the Company had not used the facility. This facility expands the Companys access to liquidity through efficient use of its balance sheet assets. The Companys credit facilities and certain debentures require the Company to comply with specified financial and non financial covenants including maintenance of minimum tangible net worth as well as limitations related to incurring liens, secured debt, and certain other financing arrangements. The Company is in compliance with these covenants as of June 30, 2011. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements In the normal course of business, the Company enters into contracts and commitments which obligate the Company to make payments in the future. The following table sets forth the Companys significant future obligations by time period. Purchases include commodity based contracts entered into in the normal course of business, which are further described in Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, energy related purchase contracts entered into in the normal course of business, and other purchase obligations related to the Companys normal business activities. The following table does not include unrecognized income tax benefits of $79 million as of June 30, 2011 as the Company is unable to reasonably estimate the timing of settlement. Where applicable, information included in the Companys consolidated financial statements and notes is cross referenced in this table. Payments Due by Period Contractual Item 8 Note Less than 1 3 3 5 More than Obligations Reference Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years (In millions) Purchases Inventories $ 17,457 $ 16,593 $ 807 $ 43 $ 14 Energy 456 340 76 22 18 Other 398 168 186 35 9 Total purchases 18,311 17,101 1,069 100 41 Short term debt 1,875 1,875 Long term debt Note 8 8,444 178 2,875 46 5,345 Estimated interest payments 7,177 384 690 646 5,457 Operating leases Note 14 1,163 233 334 225 371 Estimated pension and other postretirement plan contributions (1) Note 15 167 55 19 21 72 Total $ 37,137 $ 19,826 $ 4,987 $ 1,038 $ 11,286 (1) Includes pension contributions of $47 million for fiscal 2012. The Company is unable to estimate the amount of pension contributions beyond fiscal year 2012. For more information concerning the Companys pension and other postretirement plans, see Note 15 in Item 8. At June 30, 2011, the Company estimates it will spend approximately $2.8 billion through calendar year 2014 to complete currently approved capital projects which are not included in the table above. The Company also has outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds of $620 million at June 30, 2011. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) In addition, the Company has entered into agreements, primarily debt guarantee agreements related to equity method investees, which could obligate the Company to make future payments. The Companys liability under these agreements arises only if the primary entity fails to perform its contractual obligation. The Company has collateral for a portion of these contingent obligations. At June 30, 2011, these contingent obligations totaled approximately $121 million. Amounts outstanding for the primary entity under these contingent obligations were $69 million at June 30, 2011. Critical Accounting Policies The process of preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the carrying values of the Companys assets and liabilities as well as the recognition of revenues and expenses. These estimates and judgments are based on the Companys historical experience and managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Certain of the Companys accounting policies are considered critical, as these policies are important to the depiction of the Companys financial statements and require significant or complex judgment by management. Management has discussed with the Companys Audit Committee the development, selection, disclosure, and application of these critical accounting policies. Following are the accounting policies management considers critical to the Companys financial statements. Inventories and Derivatives Certain of the Companys merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, forward fixed price purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts are valued at estimated market values. These merchandisable agricultural commodities are freely traded, have quoted market prices, and may be sold without significant additional processing. Management estimates market value based on exchange quoted prices, adjusted for differences in local markets. Changes in the market values of these inventories and contracts are recognized in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. If management used different methods or factors to estimate market value, amounts reported as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. Additionally, if market conditions change subsequent to year end, amounts reported in future periods as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. The Company, from time to time, uses derivative contracts designated as cash flow hedges to fix the purchase price of anticipated volumes of commodities to be purchased and processed in a future month, to fix the purchase price of the Companys anticipated natural gas requirements for certain production facilities, and to fix the sales price of anticipated volumes of ethanol. The change in the market value of such derivative contracts has historically been, and is expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold and net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. If it is determined that the derivative instruments used are no longer effective at offsetting changes in the price of the hedged item, then the changes in the market value of these exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts would be recorded in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. See Note 4 in Item 8 for additional information. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Employee Benefit Plans The Company provides substantially all U.S. employees and employees at certain international subsidiaries with pension benefits. Eligible U.S. employees with five or more years of service prior to January 1, 2009 participate in a defined benefit pension plan. Eligible U.S. employees hired on or after January 1, 2009 (and eligible salaried employees with less than five years of service prior to January 1, 2009) participate in a cash balance pension formula. The Company provides eligible U.S. employees who retire under qualifying conditions with access to postretirement health care, at full cost to the retiree (certain employees are grandfathered into subsidized coverage). In order to measure the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans, management makes several estimates and assumptions, including interest rates used to discount certain liabilities, rates of return on assets set aside to fund these plans, rates of compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and anticipated future health care costs. These estimates and assumptions are based on the Companys historical experience combined with managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Management also uses third party actuaries to assist in measuring the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans. If management used different estimates and assumptions regarding these plans, the funded status of the plans could vary significantly, and the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. See Note 15 in Item 8 for additional information. Income Taxes The Company frequently faces challenges from U.S. and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company records reserves for estimates of potential additional tax owed by the Company. As an example, a subsidiary of the Company received tax assessments in the amount of $665 million consisting of tax, penalty, and interest (adjusted for interest and variation in currency exchange rates) from the Brazilian Federal Revenue Service challenging the deductibility of commodity hedging losses incurred by the Company for tax years 2004, 2006 and 2007. The Company evaluated its tax position regarding these hedging transactions and concluded, based in part upon advice from Brazilian legal counsel, that it was appropriate to recognize the tax benefits of these deductions (See Note 13 in Item 8 for additional information). Deferred tax assets represent items to be used as tax deductions or credits in future tax returns, and the related tax benefit has already been recognized in the Companys income statement. The realization of the Companys deferred tax assets is dependent upon future taxable income in specific tax jurisdictions, the timing and amount of which are uncertain. The Company evaluates all available positive and negative evidence including estimated future reversals of existing temporary differences, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies, and recent financial results. Valuation allowances related to these deferred tax assets have been established to the extent the realization of the tax benefit is not likely. To the extent the Company were to favorably resolve matters for which accruals have been established or be required to pay amounts in excess of the aforementioned reserves, the Companys effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be impacted. Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and the Companys share of the undistributed earnings of affiliated corporate joint venture companies accounted for on the equity method amounting to approximately $8.2 billion at June 30, 2011, are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned factors may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and cash flows of the Companys assets in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its factories. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment, technology, and companies related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. Assets are written down after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these assets, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Goodwill and other intangible assets The Company accounts for its goodwill and other intangible assets in accordance with ASC Topic 350, Intangibles Goodwill and Other. Under this standard, goodwill and intangible assets deemed to have indefinite lives are not amortized but are subject to annual impairment tests. The Company evaluates goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year or whenever there are indicators that the carrying value of the assets may not be fully recoverable. Definite lived intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its impairment tests, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Valuation of Marketable Securities and Investments in Affiliates The Company classifies the majority of its marketable securities as available for sale and carries these securities at fair value. The Company applies the equity method for investments over which the Company has the ability to exercise significant influence. These investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings and are adjusted, where appropriate, for amortizable basis differences between the investment balance and the underlying net assets of the investee. For publicly traded securities, the fair value of the Companys investments is readily available based on quoted market prices. For non publicly traded securities, managements assessment of fair value is based on valuation methodologies including discounted cash flows and estimates of sales proceeds. In the event of a decline in fair value of an investment below carrying value, management is required to determine if the decline in fair value is other than temporary. In evaluating the nature of a decline in the fair value of an investment, management considers the market conditions, trends of earnings, discounted cash flows, trading volumes, and other key measures of the investment as well as the Companys ability and intent to hold the investment. When such a decline in value is deemed to be other than temporary, an impairment loss is recognized in the current period operating results to the extent of the decline. See Notes 5 and 6 in Item 8 for information regarding the Companys marketable securities and investments in affiliates. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these marketable securities, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in: commodity market prices as they relate to the Companys net commodity position, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and prices of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to factors such as changes in weather conditions, disease, plantings, government programs and policies, competition, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. The Company enters into derivative and non derivative contracts with the primary objective of managing the Companys exposure to adverse price movements in the agricultural commodities used for, and produced in, our business operations. The Company will also use exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the volatility of the relationship between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contracts defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company, from time to time, enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold or net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. The Companys commodity position consists of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, related purchase and sales contracts, energy and freight contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts including contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements, net of sales. The fair value of the Companys commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing all of the commodity positions at quoted market prices for the period, where available, or utilizing a close proxy. The Company has established metrics to monitor the amount of market risk exposure, which consist of volumetric limits, and value at risk (VaR) limits. VaR measures the potential loss, at a 95% confidence level, that could be incurred over a one year period. Volumetric limits are monitored daily and VaR calculations and sensitivity analysis are monitored weekly. In addition to measuring the hypothetical loss resulting from an adverse two standard deviation move in market prices (assuming no correlations) over a one year period using VaR, sensitivity analysis is performed measuring the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in market prices. The highest, lowest, and average weekly position for each of the last two years together with the market risk from a hypothetical 10% adverse price change is as follows: 2011 2010 Long/(Short) Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest position $ 2,388 $ 239 $ 738 $ 74 Lowest position 368 37 (183 ) (18 ) Average position 1,644 164 216 22 The change in fair value of the average position for 2011 compared to 2010 was principally the result of changes in average quantities underlying the weekly commodity position. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) Currencies The Company conducts its business in over 75 countries. For the majority of the Companys subsidiaries located outside the United States, the local currency is the functional currency. To reduce the risks associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, the Company enters into currency exchange contracts to minimize its foreign currency position related to transactions denominated primarily in Euro, British pound, Canadian dollar, and Brazilian real currencies. These currencies represent the major functional or local currencies in which recurring business transactions occur. The Company does not use currency exchange contracts as hedges against amounts permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The currency exchange contracts used are forward contracts, swaps with banks, exchange traded futures contracts, and over the counter options. The changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $8.2 billion at June 30, 2011, and $6.4 billion at June 30, 2010. This increase is due to the appreciation of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar and an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The potential loss in fair value, which would principally be recognized in Other Comprehensive Income, resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $837 million and $639 million for 2011 and 2010, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 50 basis points decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2011 2010 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 9,108 $ 7,700 Excess of fair value over carrying value 842 870 Market risk 333 289 The increase in fair value of long term debt in 2011 resulted principally from the issuance of $1.5 billion of 18 month floating rate notes in February 2011. 
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) The Companys Corn Processing segment is engaged in corn wet milling and dry milling activities, with its asset base primarily located in the central part of the United States. The Corn Processing segment converts corn into sweeteners and starches, and bioproducts. Its products include ingredients used in the food and beverage industry including sweeteners, starch, syrup, glucose, and dextrose. Dextrose and starch are used by the Corn Processing segment as feedstocks for its bioproducts operations. By fermentation of dextrose, the Corn Processing segment produces alcohol, amino acids, and other specialty food and animal feed ingredients. Ethyl alcohol is produced by the Company for industrial use as ethanol or as beverage grade. Ethanol, in gasoline, increases octane and is used as an extender and oxygenate. Bioproducts also include amino acids such as lysine and threonine that are vital compounds used in swine feeds to produce leaner animals and in poultry feeds to enhance the speed and efficiency of poultry production. Corn gluten feed and meal, as well as distillers grains, are produced for use as animal feed ingredients. Corn germ, a by product of the wet milling process, is further processed into vegetable oil and protein meal. Other Corn Processing products include citric and lactic acids, lactates, sorbitol, xanthan gum, and glycols which are used in various food and industrial products. The Corn Processing segment includes the activities of the Companys Brazilian sugarcane operations, propylene and ethylene glycol facility, a bioplastic facility, and other equity investments in renewable plastics. This segment includes the Companys share of the results of its equity investments in Almidones Mexicanos S.A., Eaststarch C.V., and Red Star Yeast Company LLC. The Agricultural Services segment utilizes its extensive U.S. grain elevator and global transportation network to buy, store, clean, and transport agricultural commodities, such as oilseeds, corn, wheat, milo, oats, rice, and barley, and resells these commodities primarily as food and feed ingredients and as raw materials for the agricultural processing industry. Agricultural Services grain sourcing and transportation network provides reliable and efficient services to the Companys customers and agricultural processing operations. Agricultural Services transportation network capabilities include truck, rail, barge, port, and ocean going vessel handling and freight services. The Agricultural Services segment includes the activities of Alfred C. Toepfer International, an 80% owned global merchant of agricultural commodities and processed products. The Agricultural Services segment also includes the Companys share of the results of its Kalama Export Company joint venture, activities related to the processing and distributing of formula feeds and animal health and nutrition products, and the procuring, processing, and distributing of edible beans. Other includes the Companys remaining processing operations, consisting of activities related to processing agricultural commodities into food ingredient products such as wheat into wheat flour, and cocoa into chocolate and cocoa products. Other also includes financial activities related to banking, captive insurance, futures commission merchant activities, private equity fund investments, and the Companys share of the results of its equity investment in Gruma S.A.B de C.V. Corporate results principally include the impact of LIFO related inventory adjustments, unallocated corporate expenses, unallocated net interest costs, and the after tax elimination of income attributable to mandatorily redeemable interests in consolidated subsidiaries. Operating Performance Indicators The Companys oilseeds processing, agricultural services, and wheat processing operations are principally agricultural commodity based businesses where changes in selling prices move in relationship to changes in prices of the commodity based agricultural raw materials. Therefore, changes in agricultural commodity prices have relatively equal impacts on both net sales and other operating income and cost of products sold. Thus, changes in margins and gross profit of these businesses do not necessarily correspond to the changes in net sales and other operating income amounts. The Companys corn processing operations and certain other food and animal feed processing operations also utilize agricultural commodities (or products derived from agricultural commodities) as raw materials. In these operations, agricultural commodity market price changes can result in significant fluctuations in cost of products sold, and such price changes cannot necessarily be passed directly through to the selling price of the finished products. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) The Company conducts its business in over 75 countries. For the majority of the Companys subsidiaries located outside the United States, the local currency is the functional currency. Revenues and expenses denominated in foreign currencies are translated into U.S. dollars at the weighted average exchange rates for the applicable periods. For the majority of the Companys business activities in Brazil, the functional currency is the U.S. dollar, however certain transactions, including taxes, occur in local currency and require conversion to the functional currency. Fluctuations in the exchange rates of foreign currencies, primarily the Euro, British pound, Canadian dollar, and Brazilian real, as compared to the U.S. dollar can result in corresponding fluctuations in the U.S. dollar value of revenues and expenses reported by the Company. The Company measures the performance of its business segments using key financial metrics such as segment operating profit, return on invested capital, and cost per metric ton. The Companys operating results can vary significantly due to changes in factors such as fluctuations in energy prices, weather conditions, crop plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth, general global economic conditions, changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. Due to these unpredictable factors, the Company does not provide forward looking information in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 2011 Compared to 2010 As an agricultural commodity based business, the Company is subject to a variety of market factors which affect the Companys operating results. In 2011, prices for certain agricultural commodities were higher in response to growing global demand and tighter crop supplies. The projections of lower 2011 carryover stocks for certain key commodities, coupled with regional crop supply dislocations for certain commodities, also led to high commodity price volatility. Global demand for agricultural commodities grew in 2011, resulting in increased sales volumes for most of the Companys products. The large 2010 North American harvest resulted in global merchandising, handling, and processing opportunities. Protein meal markets for commercial livestock producers in the U.S., particularly poultry producers, faced challenging conditions. Biodiesel markets in Europe and South America, together with the 2011 extension of the U.S. biodiesel blenders credit, helped support global demand for refined and crude vegetable oils. Sweeteners and starches demand remained strong in 2011 due primarily to U.S. exports of sweeteners and improved demand for industrial starches. Ethanol sales volumes, including increased volumes as the Companys new dry mills ramped up, were supported by favorable gasoline blending economics in the U.S. and good export demand. Net earnings increased $106 million to $2.0 billion due principally to a $782 million increase in segment operating profit partially offset by a negative impact from changing LIFO inventory valuations and higher income taxes. In 2011, the Company successfully managed through significant increases in market prices for most of its agricultural commodity raw materials, resulting in increased segment operating profit. Earnings before income taxes includes charges of $368 million from the effect of increasing agricultural commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuation reserves, compared to credits of $42 million in the prior year caused by decreasing agricultural commodity prices. Income taxes increased $331 million due to a higher effective income tax rate and higher earnings before income taxes. The effective income tax rate of 33.1% for 2011 was the result of changes in the geographic mix of earnings and unfavorable specific tax items. The fully diluted earnings per share calculation for 2011 was impacted by the completion of the Companys debt remarketing related to the $1.75 billion Equity Units. While the approximately 44 million new common shares related to the $1.75 billion Equity Units were not issued until June 1, 2011, the if converted method of accounting for diluted earnings per share required diluted EPS to be calculated as if the Company issued the shares on January 1, 2011, and this assumption resulted in a dilutive impact of $0.04 on earnings per share (See Note 9 in the accompanying consolidated financial statements). Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Analysis of Statements of Earnings Prior year net sales and other operating income by segment has been reclassified to conform to the current years presentation resulting in reclassified net sales and other operating income at the segment level with no impact to total net sales and other operating income or operating profit. Net sales and other operating income by segment are as follows: 2011 2010 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing and Origination $ 16,924 $ 14,487 $ 2,437 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel and Other 9,476 7,133 2,343 Asia 262 190 72 Total Oilseeds Processing 26,662 21,810 4,852 Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 3,766 3,264 502 Bioproducts 6,142 4,610 1,532 Total Corn Processing 9,908 7,874 2,034 Agricultural Services Merchandising and Handling 37,705 26,589 11,116 Transportation 222 167 55 Total Agricultural Services 37,927 26,756 11,171 Other Processing 6,069 5,147 922 Financial 110 95 15 Total Other 6,179 5,242 937 Total $ 80,676 $ 61,682 $ 18,994 Net sales and other operating income increased $19.0 billion, or 31%, to $80.7 billion. Net sales and other operating income increased $14.2 billion due to higher average selling prices, primarily related to higher underlying commodity costs, and increased $4.8 billion due to increased sales volumes, including sales volumes from acquisitions. Agricultural Services sales increased 42% to $37.9 billion due to higher average selling prices of agricultural commodities and higher global sales volumes. Oilseeds Processing sales increased 22% to $26.7 billion primarily due to higher average selling prices for vegetable oils, soybeans, biodiesel, and protein meal. Corn Processing sales increased 26% to $9.9 billion due to higher average selling prices and increased sales volumes of ethanol and other corn products, in part due to the Companys two new ethanol dry mills coming on line. Other sales increased 18% to $6.2 billion primarily due to higher average selling prices of cocoa and cocoa products and wheat flour; and increased sales volumes of cocoa and cocoa products. ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Cost of products sold increased 32% to $76.4 billion due to higher costs of agricultural commodities, negative impacts resulting from changes in LIFO inventory valuations, and higher manufacturing costs. Cost of products sold includes charges of $368 million from the effect of increasing agricultural commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuation reserves, compared to credits of $42 million in the prior year caused by decreasing agricultural commodity prices. Manufacturing expenses increased $410 million due primarily to higher processed volumes, including the volumes of the Companys new greenfield operations coming on line, and higher average unit costs for certain chemicals and fuels used in the Companys processing and transportation operations. During the second quarter of fiscal 2011, the Company updated its estimates for service lives of certain of its machinery and equipment assets. This change in estimate resulted in a $133 million decrease in depreciation expense compared to the amount of depreciation expense the Company would have recorded using the previously estimated service lives. Manufacturing expenses included $94 million in fiscal 2011 related to the start up of new plants compared to $110 million in the prior year. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased 15% to $1.6 billion. This increase was due to higher employee related costs and higher administrative expenses. Higher employee related costs principally reflect the increase in number of employees during the year and included higher salaries and wages, higher accruals for performance based compensation and higher benefit expenses. Equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates declined 3% to $542 million. The decline in earnings from the Companys equity investee, Wilmar, were partially offset by higher earnings of the Companys equity investee, Gruma, in part due to a gain on disposition of assets. Interest income increased 8% to $136 million principally resulting from higher interest earned on advances to affiliates. Interest expense increased 14% to $482 million. Interest costs capitalized as a component of major construction projects in progress was $7 million compared to $75 million in the prior year. Interest incurred on long term debt declined $24 million as a result of debt retirements while interest incurred on short term debt increased $15 million due to higher average borrowings driven by higher working capital requirements. Other (income) expense net increased $255 million primarily due to the $71 million gain resulting from the revaluation of the Companys previously held equity interest in Golden Peanut upon acquisition of the remaining 50% interest, gains on interest rate swaps of $30 million compared to a loss of $59 million in the prior year, and a decrease in charges related to early extinguishment of debt from $75 million in the prior year to $15 million in the current year. Income taxes increased $331 million to $997 million due to a higher effective income tax rate and higher pretax earnings. The Companys effective income tax rate increased to 33.1% during 2011 compared to 25.8% in fiscal 2010. The increase in the current year rate is primarily due to a geographic mix of earnings that shifted more to the U.S., a higher U.S. effective income tax rate, income tax expense associated with foreign currency re measurement of non monetary assets in Brazil, and adjustments to deferred income tax balances. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Operating profit by segment is as follows: 2011 2010 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing and Origination $ 1,013 $ 818 $ 195 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel and Other 329 291 38 Asia 182 291 (109 ) Total Oilseeds Processing 1,524 1,400 124 Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 320 529 (209 ) Bioproducts 742 193 549 Total Corn Processing 1,062 722 340 Agricultural Services Merchandising and Handling 818 583 235 Transportation 104 85 19 Total Agricultural Services 922 668 254 Other Processing 474 403 71 Financial 39 46 (7 ) Total Other 513 449 64 Total Segment Operating Profit 4,021 3,239 782 Corporate (see below) (1,006 ) (654 ) (352 ) Earnings Before Income Taxes $ 3,015 $ 2,585 $ 430 Corporate results are as follows: 2011 2010 Change (In millions) LIFO credit (charge) $ (368 ) $ 42 $ (410 ) Unallocated interest expense net (335 ) (283 ) (52 ) Unallocated corporate costs (326 ) (266 ) (60 ) Charges on early extinguishment of debt (8 ) (75 ) 67 Gains (losses) on interest rate swaps 30 (59 ) 89 Other 1 (13 ) 14 Total Corporate $ (1,006 ) $ (654 ) $ (352 ) Oilseeds Processing operating profit increased 9% to $1.5 billion. Crushing and origination results increased $195 million to $1.0 billion, which include the $71 million gain on the revaluation of the Companys equity interest in Golden Peanut as a result of the acquisition of the remaining 50% interest. Improved North American crushing results, particularly for cotton seed and canola, were partially offset by lower crushing margins in South America and Europe. Margins globally were enhanced by good positioning and by improved origination results. In South America, fertilizer results improved due to higher margins and volumes. Refining, packaging, biodiesel and other results increased $38 million to $329 million due principally to higher packaged oils margins and improved North American and European biodiesel results. Asia results decreased $109 million due principally to decreased earnings from the Companys equity investee, Wilmar. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Corn Processing operating profit increased 47% to $1.1 billion, which includes favorable impacts from ownership positions, which were allocated to sweeteners and starches and bioproducts based on total grind. Sweeteners and starches operating profit decreased $209 million to $320 million due to higher net corn costs partially offset by higher sales volumes. Sales volumes increased due to U.S. export shipments of sweeteners and improved U.S. demand for industrial starches. Bioproducts operating profit improved $549 million primarily due to higher ethanol sales volumes and higher average selling prices leading to increased ethanol and lysine margins. Bioproducts margins were also enhanced by favorable corn ownership positions. Bioproducts results included startup costs related to the Companys new plants of $94 million in the current year compared to $107 million in the prior year. Agricultural Services operating profit increased 38% to $922 million. Merchandising and handling results increased due to higher corn and wheat sales volumes and higher margins. A large 2010 U.S. harvest combined with strong international demand resulted in higher U.S. export shipments. Merchandising and handling results this year include an insurance recovery of $67 million related to property damage and business interruption resulting from an October 2008 explosion at the Companys Destrehan, Louisiana export facility. International merchandising results were weaker in part due to positions impacted by unexpected shifts in crop supply caused by weather conditions and government actions in the Black Sea region. Transportation results increased $19 million to $104 million primarily due to higher barge freight rates and higher barge utilization levels, in part due to higher U.S. export volumes. Other operating profit increased 14% to $513 million. Other processing operating results improved in the Companys wheat milling and cocoa business units due principally to increased equity earnings from the Companys equity investee, Gruma, which include a $78 million gain related to the disposal of Gruma assets. Other financial operating profit decreased $7 million primarily due to higher captive insurance loss provisions principally related to a $67 million loss related to the Companys Destrehan, Louisiana export facility insurance claim. Corporate results decreased $352 million primarily due to the negative impact from changing LIFO inventory valuations and higher unallocated interest expense net. The effects of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory reserves resulted in charges of $368 million compared to credits of $42 million for the prior year. Corporate unallocated interest expense increased $52 million mostly due to lower capitalization of interest costs for construction projects in progress. Partially offsetting the higher LIFO and unallocated interest costs were $30 million of gains on interest rate swaps compared to prior year losses on interest rate swaps of $59 million. In addition, the prior year included charges of $75 million on early debt extinguishment compared to $8 million of similar charges in the current year. 2010 Compared to 2009 As an agricultural commodity based business, the Company is subject to a variety of market factors which affect the Companys operating results. Market expectations throughout most of fiscal 2010 for fewer global crop supply and demand imbalances, coupled with continuing uncertainty about short term demand, led to generally lower and less volatile agricultural commodity market prices and conditions. In addition, the late, extended U.S. harvest reduced profit opportunities. North American oilseed exports and U.S. crushing volumes were enhanced in 2010 by the poor supply of 2009 crop year soybeans in South America. Increased government mandates for the use of biodiesel in South America and Europe resulted in increased biodiesel demand and helped keep overall demand for refined and crude vegetable oil steady in these regions. However, in North America, demand for vegetable oils remained weak in 2010 due to low consumption of oils in the food service and biodiesel industries, in part due to the expiration of the biodiesel blending credit in the U.S. on January 1, 2010. Soybean protein meal demand improved, particularly in Asia. Market prices for corn decreased in 2010 resulting in lower raw material costs for corn processing and decreased average selling prices for sweeteners and starches. Lower energy, fuel and chemical costs per unit positively impacted the Companys manufacturing costs. More favorable ethanol blending economics together with increased ethanol merchandising activity resulted in increased demand, higher ethanol sales volumes, and improved margins. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Earnings before income taxes for 2010 include a credit of $42 million from the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations, compared to a credit of $517 million in 2009. Income taxes decreased $146 million due to a lower effective income tax rate, partially offset by higher pretax earnings. Income taxes for 2009 included a $158 million charge resulting from the restructuring of a holding company in which the Company holds a portion of its equity investment in Wilmar. Analysis of Statements of Earnings Net sales and other operating income by segment for 2010 and 2009 have been reclassified to conform to the current years presentation resulting in reclassified net sales and other operating income at the segment level with no impact to total net sales and other operating income or operating profit. Net sales and other operating income by segment are as follows: 2010 2009 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing and Origination $ 14,487 $ 15,013 $ (526 ) Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel and Other 7,133 8,756 (1,623 ) Asia 190 179 11 Total Oilseeds Processing 21,810 23,948 (2,138 ) Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 3,264 3,690 (426 ) Bioproducts 4,610 3,938 672 Total Corn Processing 7,874 7,628 246 Agricultural Services Merchandising and Handling 26,589 32,007 (5,418 ) Transportation 167 242 (75 ) Total Agricultural Services 26,756 32,249 (5,493 ) Other Processing 5,147 5,272 (125 ) Financial 95 110 (15 ) Total Other 5,242 5,382 (140 ) Total $ 61,682 $ 69,207 $ (7,525 ) Net sales and other operating income decreased 11% to $61.7 billion due principally to lower average selling prices in 2010 in line with year over year declines in underlying commodity costs. Oilseeds Processing sales decreased 9% to $21.8 billion, due principally to lower average selling prices for soybeans, protein meal, refined oil, and biodiesel partially offset by increased sales volumes of soybeans and fertilizer. Corn Processing sales increased 3% to $7.9 billion primarily as a result of increased sales volumes of ethanol and lysine partially offset by lower average selling prices of ethanol, sweeteners, and starches. Agricultural Services sales decreased 17% to $26.8 billion, due to lower average selling prices, in line with year over year declines in underlying commodity prices and lower sales volumes. Other sales decreased 3% to $5.2 billion, primarily due to lower average selling prices of wheat flour partially offset by increased wheat flour sales volumes and higher average selling prices and sales volumes for cocoa products. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Cost of products sold decreased 11% to $57.8 billion, due principally to decreased agricultural commodity costs including the impact of changes in LIFO inventory valuations which reduced cost of products sold by $42 million in 2010 compared to $517 million in 2009. Manufacturing expenses decreased 1% or $60 million, primarily due to lower energy, chemical and fuel costs partially offset by higher employee related costs and a $124 million increase in depreciation and amortization expense. In 2010, manufacturing expenses included additional costs associated with the Companys new greenfield plants. Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased 1% to $1.4 billion, due principally to decreased provisions for doubtful accounts partially offset by increased expenses for legal, professional, and commercial services. Equity earnings of unconsolidated affiliates increased $416 million to $561 million primarily due to the absence of a non cash charge of $275 million in 2009 related to currency derivative losses of the Companys equity investee, Gruma S.A.B. de C.V. Interest income declined $55 million to $126 million primarily due to lower average interest rates. Interest expense declined $47 million to $422 million primarily due to lower average interest rates. Other expense net increased $91 million due to pre tax charges of $75 million related to the early extinguishment of debt and $59 million for unrealized losses on interest rate swaps (for more information on the charges related to the early extinguishment of debt, see Note 8 in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data). Income taxes decreased $146 million due to a lower effective income tax rate partially offset by higher pretax earnings. The Companys effective income tax rate during 2010 was 25.8%. In 2009, the effective income tax rate was 32.5% which included $158 million of income tax charges related to the partial restructuring of the holding company structure through which the Company holds a portion of its equity investment in Wilmar. Excluding these Wilmar charges, the Companys effective income tax rate for 2009 was 26.2%. For more information concerning Wilmar tax matters see Note 13 in Item 8. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Operating profit by segment is as follows: 2010 2009 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing and Origination $ 818 $ 767 $ 51 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel and Other 291 265 26 Asia 291 248 43 Total Oilseeds Processing 1,400 1,280 120 Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 529 500 29 Bioproducts 193 (315 ) 508 Total Corn Processing 722 185 537 Agricultural Services Merchandising and Handling 583 832 (249 ) Transportation 85 162 (77 ) Total Agricultural Services 668 994 (326 ) Other Processing 403 51 352 Financial 46 (57 ) 103 Total Other 449 (6 ) 455 Total Segment Operating Profit 3,239 2,453 786 Corporate (see below) (654 ) 47 (701 ) Earnings Before Income Taxes $ 2,585 $ 2,500 $ 85 Corporate results are as follows: 2010 2009 Change (In millions) LIFO credit $ 42 $ 517 $ (475 ) Unallocated interest expense net (283 ) (192 ) (91 ) Unallocated corporate costs (266 ) (252 ) (14 ) Charges on early extinguishment of debt (75 ) (75 ) Unrealized losses on interest rate swaps (59 ) (59 ) Other (13 ) (26 ) 13 Total Corporate $ (654 ) $ 47 $ (701 ) Oilseeds Processing operating profit increased 9% to $1.4 billion. Crushing and origination results increased $51 million due to higher North American soybean crushing margins and favorable soft seed commodity positioning, partially offset by lower soybean crushing margins in Europe and South America. Refining, packaging, biodiesel and other operating profit increased $26 million due primarily to higher South American biodiesel results and improved margins in Europe. Oilseeds processing results in Asia increased $43 million to $291 million due principally to improved equity earnings of Wilmar. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Corn Processing operating profit increased $537 million to $722 million. Bioproducts operating profit increased $508 million due to improved ethanol and lysine sales volumes and improved ethanol margins resulting from lower net corn costs and decreased manufacturing costs. Ethanol sales volumes increased due to favorable gasoline blending economics and increased merchandising activity. Sweeteners and starches operating profit increased $29 million due to lower net corn and manufacturing costs due principally to lower energy and chemical prices. These lower manufacturing costs were partially offset by lower average selling prices. Agricultural Services operating profit decreased $326 million to $668 million. Merchandising and handling results decreased $249 million. Enhanced volume and margin opportunities created by 2009s volatile commodity markets and tight credit markets did not recur. Volumes and margins in 2010 benefited from strong demand for U.S. soybean exports following the short South American 2009 crop. Transportation results decreased $77 million due to lower barge freight rates and decreased barge utilization levels resulting from weaker U.S. economic conditions and the late, extended North American harvest. Other operating profit increased $455 million to $449 million. Other processing operating profit increased $352 million due to improved equity earnings from the Companys investment in Gruma, improved wheat milling margins, and improved cocoa processing results. Financial operating profit increased $103 million due primarily to the absence of losses experienced in 2009 from managed fund investments and captive insurance operations. Corporate results decreased $701 million. The effects of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations resulted in a credit of $42 million for the year ended June 30, 2010, compared to a credit of $517 million for the year ended June 30, 2009. Unallocated interest expense net increased $91 million reflecting a reduction in corporate interest income caused by lower short term interest rates and lower working capital requirements of the operating segments. In March 2010, the Company repurchased $500 million of long term debt which generated a $75 million pretax charge on early extinguishment of debt. In connection with a debt remarketing planned for 2011, the Company entered into interest rate swaps to fix the interest rate on a portion of the planned remarketing which resulted in $59 million of unrealized losses on interest rate swaps. Liquidity and Capital Resources A Company objective is to have sufficient liquidity, balance sheet strength, and financial flexibility to fund the operating and capital requirements of a capital intensive agricultural commodity based business. The primary source of funds to finance the Companys operations and capital expenditures is cash generated by operations. In addition, the Company maintains a commercial paper borrowing facility and has access to equity and debt capital from public and private sources in both U.S. and international markets. At June 30, 2011, the Company had $1.4 billion of cash, cash equivalents, and short term marketable securities and a current ratio, defined as current assets divided by current liabilities, of 2.1 to 1. Included in working capital is $7.1 billion of readily marketable commodity inventories. Cash used in operating activities was $2.3 billion for the year compared to cash provided by operating activities of $2.7 billion last year. Working capital increased in the current year due principally to higher agricultural commodity market prices. Cash used in investing activities of $1.7 billion, principally for capital expenditures, businesses acquired, and investments, was in line with last year. Cash provided by financing activities was $3.6 billion for the year compared to cash used in financing activities of $1.0 billion last year. Net borrowings increased primarily to fund higher working capital. Short term borrowings increased due principally to higher commercial paper borrowings, and long term borrowings increased primarily as a result of the issuance of $1.5 billion of 18 month floating rate notes in February 2011. In addition, the Company issued common stock and received $1.75 billion under the forward stock purchase component of the Companys Equity Units (see Note 8 in Item 8). At June 30, 2011, the Companys capital resources included net worth of $18.8 billion and lines of credit totaling $6.9 billion, of which $5.7 billion was unused. The Companys ratio of long term debt to total capital (the sum of the Companys long term debt and shareholders equity) was 30% at June 30, 2011 and 32% at June 30, 2010. This ratio is a measure of the Companys long term indebtedness and is an indicator of financial flexibility. Of the Companys total lines of credit, $4.6 billion support a commercial paper borrowing facility, against which there were $620 million of commercial paper outstanding at June 30, 2011. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) The Company has outstanding $1.15 billion principal amount of convertible senior notes. As of June 30, 2011, none of the conditions permitting conversion of these notes had been satisfied. The Company has purchased call options and warrants intended to reduce the potential shareholder dilution upon future conversion of the notes. As of June 30, 2011, the market price of the Companys common stock was not greater than the exercise price of the purchased call options or warrants related to the convertible senior notes. On July 1, 2011, the Company entered into a 364 day accounts receivable securitization facility. The facility provides the Company with up to $1.0 billion in liquidity. Under the facility, the Companys U.S. originated trade accounts receivable are sold to a wholly owned bankruptcy remote entity which then sells an undivided interest in the receivable as a collateral for any borrowings under the facility. Any borrowings under the facility will be recorded as secured borrowings. As of August 24, 2011, the Company had not used the facility. This facility expands the Companys access to liquidity through efficient use of its balance sheet assets. The Companys credit facilities and certain debentures require the Company to comply with specified financial and non financial covenants including maintenance of minimum tangible net worth as well as limitations related to incurring liens, secured debt, and certain other financing arrangements. The Company is in compliance with these covenants as of June 30, 2011. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements In the normal course of business, the Company enters into contracts and commitments which obligate the Company to make payments in the future. The following table sets forth the Companys significant future obligations by time period. Purchases include commodity based contracts entered into in the normal course of business, which are further described in Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, energy related purchase contracts entered into in the normal course of business, and other purchase obligations related to the Companys normal business activities. The following table does not include unrecognized income tax benefits of $79 million as of June 30, 2011 as the Company is unable to reasonably estimate the timing of settlement. Where applicable, information included in the Companys consolidated financial statements and notes is cross referenced in this table. Payments Due by Period Contractual Item 8 Note Less than 1 3 3 5 More than Obligations Reference Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years (In millions) Purchases Inventories $ 17,457 $ 16,593 $ 807 $ 43 $ 14 Energy 456 340 76 22 18 Other 398 168 186 35 9 Total purchases 18,311 17,101 1,069 100 41 Short term debt 1,875 1,875 Long term debt Note 8 8,444 178 2,875 46 5,345 Estimated interest payments 7,177 384 690 646 5,457 Operating leases Note 14 1,163 233 334 225 371 Estimated pension and other postretirement plan contributions (1) Note 15 167 55 19 21 72 Total $ 37,137 $ 19,826 $ 4,987 $ 1,038 $ 11,286 (1) Includes pension contributions of $47 million for fiscal 2012. The Company is unable to estimate the amount of pension contributions beyond fiscal year 2012. For more information concerning the Companys pension and other postretirement plans, see Note 15 in Item 8. At June 30, 2011, the Company estimates it will spend approximately $2.8 billion through calendar year 2014 to complete currently approved capital projects which are not included in the table above. The Company also has outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds of $620 million at June 30, 2011. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) In addition, the Company has entered into agreements, primarily debt guarantee agreements related to equity method investees, which could obligate the Company to make future payments. The Companys liability under these agreements arises only if the primary entity fails to perform its contractual obligation. The Company has collateral for a portion of these contingent obligations. At June 30, 2011, these contingent obligations totaled approximately $121 million. Amounts outstanding for the primary entity under these contingent obligations were $69 million at June 30, 2011. Critical Accounting Policies The process of preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the carrying values of the Companys assets and liabilities as well as the recognition of revenues and expenses. These estimates and judgments are based on the Companys historical experience and managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Certain of the Companys accounting policies are considered critical, as these policies are important to the depiction of the Companys financial statements and require significant or complex judgment by management. Management has discussed with the Companys Audit Committee the development, selection, disclosure, and application of these critical accounting policies. Following are the accounting policies management considers critical to the Companys financial statements. Inventories and Derivatives Certain of the Companys merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, forward fixed price purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts are valued at estimated market values. These merchandisable agricultural commodities are freely traded, have quoted market prices, and may be sold without significant additional processing. Management estimates market value based on exchange quoted prices, adjusted for differences in local markets. Changes in the market values of these inventories and contracts are recognized in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. If management used different methods or factors to estimate market value, amounts reported as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. Additionally, if market conditions change subsequent to year end, amounts reported in future periods as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. The Company, from time to time, uses derivative contracts designated as cash flow hedges to fix the purchase price of anticipated volumes of commodities to be purchased and processed in a future month, to fix the purchase price of the Companys anticipated natural gas requirements for certain production facilities, and to fix the sales price of anticipated volumes of ethanol. The change in the market value of such derivative contracts has historically been, and is expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold and net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. If it is determined that the derivative instruments used are no longer effective at offsetting changes in the price of the hedged item, then the changes in the market value of these exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts would be recorded in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. See Note 4 in Item 8 for additional information. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Employee Benefit Plans The Company provides substantially all U.S. employees and employees at certain international subsidiaries with pension benefits. Eligible U.S. employees with five or more years of service prior to January 1, 2009 participate in a defined benefit pension plan. Eligible U.S. employees hired on or after January 1, 2009 (and eligible salaried employees with less than five years of service prior to January 1, 2009) participate in a cash balance pension formula. The Company provides eligible U.S. employees who retire under qualifying conditions with access to postretirement health care, at full cost to the retiree (certain employees are grandfathered into subsidized coverage). In order to measure the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans, management makes several estimates and assumptions, including interest rates used to discount certain liabilities, rates of return on assets set aside to fund these plans, rates of compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and anticipated future health care costs. These estimates and assumptions are based on the Companys historical experience combined with managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Management also uses third party actuaries to assist in measuring the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans. If management used different estimates and assumptions regarding these plans, the funded status of the plans could vary significantly, and the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. See Note 15 in Item 8 for additional information. Income Taxes The Company frequently faces challenges from U.S. and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company records reserves for estimates of potential additional tax owed by the Company. As an example, a subsidiary of the Company received tax assessments in the amount of $665 million consisting of tax, penalty, and interest (adjusted for interest and variation in currency exchange rates) from the Brazilian Federal Revenue Service challenging the deductibility of commodity hedging losses incurred by the Company for tax years 2004, 2006 and 2007. The Company evaluated its tax position regarding these hedging transactions and concluded, based in part upon advice from Brazilian legal counsel, that it was appropriate to recognize the tax benefits of these deductions (See Note 13 in Item 8 for additional information). Deferred tax assets represent items to be used as tax deductions or credits in future tax returns, and the related tax benefit has already been recognized in the Companys income statement. The realization of the Companys deferred tax assets is dependent upon future taxable income in specific tax jurisdictions, the timing and amount of which are uncertain. The Company evaluates all available positive and negative evidence including estimated future reversals of existing temporary differences, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies, and recent financial results. Valuation allowances related to these deferred tax assets have been established to the extent the realization of the tax benefit is not likely. To the extent the Company were to favorably resolve matters for which accruals have been established or be required to pay amounts in excess of the aforementioned reserves, the Companys effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be impacted. Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and the Companys share of the undistributed earnings of affiliated corporate joint venture companies accounted for on the equity method amounting to approximately $8.2 billion at June 30, 2011, are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned factors may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and cash flows of the Companys assets in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its factories. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment, technology, and companies related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. Assets are written down after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these assets, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Goodwill and other intangible assets The Company accounts for its goodwill and other intangible assets in accordance with ASC Topic 350, Intangibles Goodwill and Other. Under this standard, goodwill and intangible assets deemed to have indefinite lives are not amortized but are subject to annual impairment tests. The Company evaluates goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year or whenever there are indicators that the carrying value of the assets may not be fully recoverable. Definite lived intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its impairment tests, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Valuation of Marketable Securities and Investments in Affiliates The Company classifies the majority of its marketable securities as available for sale and carries these securities at fair value. The Company applies the equity method for investments over which the Company has the ability to exercise significant influence. These investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings and are adjusted, where appropriate, for amortizable basis differences between the investment balance and the underlying net assets of the investee. For publicly traded securities, the fair value of the Companys investments is readily available based on quoted market prices. For non publicly traded securities, managements assessment of fair value is based on valuation methodologies including discounted cash flows and estimates of sales proceeds. In the event of a decline in fair value of an investment below carrying value, management is required to determine if the decline in fair value is other than temporary. In evaluating the nature of a decline in the fair value of an investment, management considers the market conditions, trends of earnings, discounted cash flows, trading volumes, and other key measures of the investment as well as the Companys ability and intent to hold the investment. When such a decline in value is deemed to be other than temporary, an impairment loss is recognized in the current period operating results to the extent of the decline. See Notes 5 and 6 in Item 8 for information regarding the Companys marketable securities and investments in affiliates. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these marketable securities, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in: commodity market prices as they relate to the Companys net commodity position, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and prices of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to factors such as changes in weather conditions, disease, plantings, government programs and policies, competition, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. The Company enters into derivative and non derivative contracts with the primary objective of managing the Companys exposure to adverse price movements in the agricultural commodities used for, and produced in, our business operations. The Company will also use exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the volatility of the relationship between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contracts defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company, from time to time, enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold or net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. The Companys commodity position consists of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, related purchase and sales contracts, energy and freight contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts including contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements, net of sales. The fair value of the Companys commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing all of the commodity positions at quoted market prices for the period, where available, or utilizing a close proxy. The Company has established metrics to monitor the amount of market risk exposure, which consist of volumetric limits, and value at risk (VaR) limits. VaR measures the potential loss, at a 95% confidence level, that could be incurred over a one year period. Volumetric limits are monitored daily and VaR calculations and sensitivity analysis are monitored weekly. In addition to measuring the hypothetical loss resulting from an adverse two standard deviation move in market prices (assuming no correlations) over a one year period using VaR, sensitivity analysis is performed measuring the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in market prices. The highest, lowest, and average weekly position for each of the last two years together with the market risk from a hypothetical 10% adverse price change is as follows: 2011 2010 Long/(Short) Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest position $ 2,388 $ 239 $ 738 $ 74 Lowest position 368 37 (183 ) (18 ) Average position 1,644 164 216 22 The change in fair value of the average position for 2011 compared to 2010 was principally the result of changes in average quantities underlying the weekly commodity position. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) Currencies The Company conducts its business in over 75 countries. For the majority of the Companys subsidiaries located outside the United States, the local currency is the functional currency. To reduce the risks associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, the Company enters into currency exchange contracts to minimize its foreign currency position related to transactions denominated primarily in Euro, British pound, Canadian dollar, and Brazilian real currencies. These currencies represent the major functional or local currencies in which recurring business transactions occur. The Company does not use currency exchange contracts as hedges against amounts permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The currency exchange contracts used are forward contracts, swaps with banks, exchange traded futures contracts, and over the counter options. The changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $8.2 billion at June 30, 2011, and $6.4 billion at June 30, 2010. This increase is due to the appreciation of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar and an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The potential loss in fair value, which would principally be recognized in Other Comprehensive Income, resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $837 million and $639 million for 2011 and 2010, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 50 basis points decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2011 2010 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 9,108 $ 7,700 Excess of fair value over carrying value 842 870 Market risk 333 289 The increase in fair value of long term debt in 2011 resulted principally from the issuance of $1.5 billion of 18 month floating rate notes in February 2011. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) The Company conducts its business in over 75 countries. For the majority of the Companys subsidiaries located outside the United States, the local currency is the functional currency. Revenues and expenses denominated in foreign currencies are translated into U.S. dollars at the weighted average exchange rates for the applicable periods. For the majority of the Companys business activities in Brazil, the functional currency is the U.S. dollar, however certain transactions, including taxes, occur in local currency and require conversion to the functional currency. Fluctuations in the exchange rates of foreign currencies, primarily the Euro, British pound, Canadian dollar, and Brazilian real, as compared to the U.S. dollar can result in corresponding fluctuations in the U.S. dollar value of revenues and expenses reported by the Company. The Company measures the performance of its business segments using key financial metrics such as segment operating profit, return on invested capital, and cost per metric ton. The Companys operating results can vary significantly due to changes in factors such as fluctuations in energy prices, weather conditions, crop plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth, general global economic conditions, changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. Due to these unpredictable factors, the Company does not provide forward looking information in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 2011 Compared to 2010 As an agricultural commodity based business, the Company is subject to a variety of market factors which affect the Companys operating results. In 2011, prices for certain agricultural commodities were higher in response to growing global demand and tighter crop supplies. The projections of lower 2011 carryover stocks for certain key commodities, coupled with regional crop supply dislocations for certain commodities, also led to high commodity price volatility. Global demand for agricultural commodities grew in 2011, resulting in increased sales volumes for most of the Companys products. The large 2010 North American harvest resulted in global merchandising, handling, and processing opportunities. Protein meal markets for commercial livestock producers in the U.S., particularly poultry producers, faced challenging conditions. Biodiesel markets in Europe and South America, together with the 2011 extension of the U.S. biodiesel blenders credit, helped support global demand for refined and crude vegetable oils. Sweeteners and starches demand remained strong in 2011 due primarily to U.S. exports of sweeteners and improved demand for industrial starches. Ethanol sales volumes, including increased volumes as the Companys new dry mills ramped up, were supported by favorable gasoline blending economics in the U.S. and good export demand. Net earnings increased $106 million to $2.0 billion due principally to a $782 million increase in segment operating profit partially offset by a negative impact from changing LIFO inventory valuations and higher income taxes. In 2011, the Company successfully managed through significant increases in market prices for most of its agricultural commodity raw materials, resulting in increased segment operating profit. Earnings before income taxes includes charges of $368 million from the effect of increasing agricultural commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuation reserves, compared to credits of $42 million in the prior year caused by decreasing agricultural commodity prices. Income taxes increased $331 million due to a higher effective income tax rate and higher earnings before income taxes. The effective income tax rate of 33.1% for 2011 was the result of changes in the geographic mix of earnings and unfavorable specific tax items. The fully diluted earnings per share calculation for 2011 was impacted by the completion of the Companys debt remarketing related to the $1.75 billion Equity Units. While the approximately 44 million new common shares related to the $1.75 billion Equity Units were not issued until June 1, 2011, the if converted method of accounting for diluted earnings per share required diluted EPS to be calculated as if the Company issued the shares on January 1, 2011, and this assumption resulted in a dilutive impact of $0.04 on earnings per share (See Note 9 in the accompanying consolidated financial statements). Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Analysis of Statements of Earnings Prior year net sales and other operating income by segment has been reclassified to conform to the current years presentation resulting in reclassified net sales and other operating income at the segment level with no impact to total net sales and other operating income or operating profit. Net sales and other operating income by segment are as follows: 2011 2010 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing and Origination $ 16,924 $ 14,487 $ 2,437 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel and Other 9,476 7,133 2,343 Asia 262 190 72 Total Oilseeds Processing 26,662 21,810 4,852 Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 3,766 3,264 502 Bioproducts 6,142 4,610 1,532 Total Corn Processing 9,908 7,874 2,034 Agricultural Services Merchandising and Handling 37,705 26,589 11,116 Transportation 222 167 55 Total Agricultural Services 37,927 26,756 11,171 Other Processing 6,069 5,147 922 Financial 110 95 15 Total Other 6,179 5,242 937 Total $ 80,676 $ 61,682 $ 18,994 Net sales and other operating income increased $19.0 billion, or 31%, to $80.7 billion. Net sales and other operating income increased $14.2 billion due to higher average selling prices, primarily related to higher underlying commodity costs, and increased $4.8 billion due to increased sales volumes, including sales volumes from acquisitions. Agricultural Services sales increased 42% to $37.9 billion due to higher average selling prices of agricultural commodities and higher global sales volumes. Oilseeds Processing sales increased 22% to $26.7 billion primarily due to higher average selling prices for vegetable oils, soybeans, biodiesel, and protein meal. Corn Processing sales increased 26% to $9.9 billion due to higher average selling prices and increased sales volumes of ethanol and other corn products, in part due to the Companys two new ethanol dry mills coming on line. Other sales increased 18% to $6.2 billion primarily due to higher average selling prices of cocoa and cocoa products and wheat flour; and increased sales volumes of cocoa and cocoa products. ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Cost of products sold increased 32% to $76.4 billion due to higher costs of agricultural commodities, negative impacts resulting from changes in LIFO inventory valuations, and higher manufacturing costs. Cost of products sold includes charges of $368 million from the effect of increasing agricultural commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuation reserves, compared to credits of $42 million in the prior year caused by decreasing agricultural commodity prices. Manufacturing expenses increased $410 million due primarily to higher processed volumes, including the volumes of the Companys new greenfield operations coming on line, and higher average unit costs for certain chemicals and fuels used in the Companys processing and transportation operations. During the second quarter of fiscal 2011, the Company updated its estimates for service lives of certain of its machinery and equipment assets. This change in estimate resulted in a $133 million decrease in depreciation expense compared to the amount of depreciation expense the Company would have recorded using the previously estimated service lives. Manufacturing expenses included $94 million in fiscal 2011 related to the start up of new plants compared to $110 million in the prior year. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased 15% to $1.6 billion. This increase was due to higher employee related costs and higher administrative expenses. Higher employee related costs principally reflect the increase in number of employees during the year and included higher salaries and wages, higher accruals for performance based compensation and higher benefit expenses. Equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates declined 3% to $542 million. The decline in earnings from the Companys equity investee, Wilmar, were partially offset by higher earnings of the Companys equity investee, Gruma, in part due to a gain on disposition of assets. Interest income increased 8% to $136 million principally resulting from higher interest earned on advances to affiliates. Interest expense increased 14% to $482 million. Interest costs capitalized as a component of major construction projects in progress was $7 million compared to $75 million in the prior year. Interest incurred on long term debt declined $24 million as a result of debt retirements while interest incurred on short term debt increased $15 million due to higher average borrowings driven by higher working capital requirements. Other (income) expense net increased $255 million primarily due to the $71 million gain resulting from the revaluation of the Companys previously held equity interest in Golden Peanut upon acquisition of the remaining 50% interest, gains on interest rate swaps of $30 million compared to a loss of $59 million in the prior year, and a decrease in charges related to early extinguishment of debt from $75 million in the prior year to $15 million in the current year. Income taxes increased $331 million to $997 million due to a higher effective income tax rate and higher pretax earnings. The Companys effective income tax rate increased to 33.1% during 2011 compared to 25.8% in fiscal 2010. The increase in the current year rate is primarily due to a geographic mix of earnings that shifted more to the U.S., a higher U.S. effective income tax rate, income tax expense associated with foreign currency re measurement of non monetary assets in Brazil, and adjustments to deferred income tax balances. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Operating profit by segment is as follows: 2011 2010 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing and Origination $ 1,013 $ 818 $ 195 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel and Other 329 291 38 Asia 182 291 (109 ) Total Oilseeds Processing 1,524 1,400 124 Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 320 529 (209 ) Bioproducts 742 193 549 Total Corn Processing 1,062 722 340 Agricultural Services Merchandising and Handling 818 583 235 Transportation 104 85 19 Total Agricultural Services 922 668 254 Other Processing 474 403 71 Financial 39 46 (7 ) Total Other 513 449 64 Total Segment Operating Profit 4,021 3,239 782 Corporate (see below) (1,006 ) (654 ) (352 ) Earnings Before Income Taxes $ 3,015 $ 2,585 $ 430 Corporate results are as follows: 2011 2010 Change (In millions) LIFO credit (charge) $ (368 ) $ 42 $ (410 ) Unallocated interest expense net (335 ) (283 ) (52 ) Unallocated corporate costs (326 ) (266 ) (60 ) Charges on early extinguishment of debt (8 ) (75 ) 67 Gains (losses) on interest rate swaps 30 (59 ) 89 Other 1 (13 ) 14 Total Corporate $ (1,006 ) $ (654 ) $ (352 ) Oilseeds Processing operating profit increased 9% to $1.5 billion. Crushing and origination results increased $195 million to $1.0 billion, which include the $71 million gain on the revaluation of the Companys equity interest in Golden Peanut as a result of the acquisition of the remaining 50% interest. Improved North American crushing results, particularly for cotton seed and canola, were partially offset by lower crushing margins in South America and Europe. Margins globally were enhanced by good positioning and by improved origination results. In South America, fertilizer results improved due to higher margins and volumes. Refining, packaging, biodiesel and other results increased $38 million to $329 million due principally to higher packaged oils margins and improved North American and European biodiesel results. Asia results decreased $109 million due principally to decreased earnings from the Companys equity investee, Wilmar. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Corn Processing operating profit increased 47% to $1.1 billion, which includes favorable impacts from ownership positions, which were allocated to sweeteners and starches and bioproducts based on total grind. Sweeteners and starches operating profit decreased $209 million to $320 million due to higher net corn costs partially offset by higher sales volumes. Sales volumes increased due to U.S. export shipments of sweeteners and improved U.S. demand for industrial starches. Bioproducts operating profit improved $549 million primarily due to higher ethanol sales volumes and higher average selling prices leading to increased ethanol and lysine margins. Bioproducts margins were also enhanced by favorable corn ownership positions. Bioproducts results included startup costs related to the Companys new plants of $94 million in the current year compared to $107 million in the prior year. Agricultural Services operating profit increased 38% to $922 million. Merchandising and handling results increased due to higher corn and wheat sales volumes and higher margins. A large 2010 U.S. harvest combined with strong international demand resulted in higher U.S. export shipments. Merchandising and handling results this year include an insurance recovery of $67 million related to property damage and business interruption resulting from an October 2008 explosion at the Companys Destrehan, Louisiana export facility. International merchandising results were weaker in part due to positions impacted by unexpected shifts in crop supply caused by weather conditions and government actions in the Black Sea region. Transportation results increased $19 million to $104 million primarily due to higher barge freight rates and higher barge utilization levels, in part due to higher U.S. export volumes. Other operating profit increased 14% to $513 million. Other processing operating results improved in the Companys wheat milling and cocoa business units due principally to increased equity earnings from the Companys equity investee, Gruma, which include a $78 million gain related to the disposal of Gruma assets. Other financial operating profit decreased $7 million primarily due to higher captive insurance loss provisions principally related to a $67 million loss related to the Companys Destrehan, Louisiana export facility insurance claim. Corporate results decreased $352 million primarily due to the negative impact from changing LIFO inventory valuations and higher unallocated interest expense net. The effects of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory reserves resulted in charges of $368 million compared to credits of $42 million for the prior year. Corporate unallocated interest expense increased $52 million mostly due to lower capitalization of interest costs for construction projects in progress. Partially offsetting the higher LIFO and unallocated interest costs were $30 million of gains on interest rate swaps compared to prior year losses on interest rate swaps of $59 million. In addition, the prior year included charges of $75 million on early debt extinguishment compared to $8 million of similar charges in the current year. 2010 Compared to 2009 As an agricultural commodity based business, the Company is subject to a variety of market factors which affect the Companys operating results. Market expectations throughout most of fiscal 2010 for fewer global crop supply and demand imbalances, coupled with continuing uncertainty about short term demand, led to generally lower and less volatile agricultural commodity market prices and conditions. In addition, the late, extended U.S. harvest reduced profit opportunities. North American oilseed exports and U.S. crushing volumes were enhanced in 2010 by the poor supply of 2009 crop year soybeans in South America. Increased government mandates for the use of biodiesel in South America and Europe resulted in increased biodiesel demand and helped keep overall demand for refined and crude vegetable oil steady in these regions. However, in North America, demand for vegetable oils remained weak in 2010 due to low consumption of oils in the food service and biodiesel industries, in part due to the expiration of the biodiesel blending credit in the U.S. on January 1, 2010. Soybean protein meal demand improved, particularly in Asia. Market prices for corn decreased in 2010 resulting in lower raw material costs for corn processing and decreased average selling prices for sweeteners and starches. Lower energy, fuel and chemical costs per unit positively impacted the Companys manufacturing costs. More favorable ethanol blending economics together with increased ethanol merchandising activity resulted in increased demand, higher ethanol sales volumes, and improved margins. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Earnings before income taxes for 2010 include a credit of $42 million from the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations, compared to a credit of $517 million in 2009. Income taxes decreased $146 million due to a lower effective income tax rate, partially offset by higher pretax earnings. Income taxes for 2009 included a $158 million charge resulting from the restructuring of a holding company in which the Company holds a portion of its equity investment in Wilmar. Analysis of Statements of Earnings Net sales and other operating income by segment for 2010 and 2009 have been reclassified to conform to the current years presentation resulting in reclassified net sales and other operating income at the segment level with no impact to total net sales and other operating income or operating profit. Net sales and other operating income by segment are as follows: 2010 2009 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing and Origination $ 14,487 $ 15,013 $ (526 ) Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel and Other 7,133 8,756 (1,623 ) Asia 190 179 11 Total Oilseeds Processing 21,810 23,948 (2,138 ) Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 3,264 3,690 (426 ) Bioproducts 4,610 3,938 672 Total Corn Processing 7,874 7,628 246 Agricultural Services Merchandising and Handling 26,589 32,007 (5,418 ) Transportation 167 242 (75 ) Total Agricultural Services 26,756 32,249 (5,493 ) Other Processing 5,147 5,272 (125 ) Financial 95 110 (15 ) Total Other 5,242 5,382 (140 ) Total $ 61,682 $ 69,207 $ (7,525 ) Net sales and other operating income decreased 11% to $61.7 billion due principally to lower average selling prices in 2010 in line with year over year declines in underlying commodity costs. Oilseeds Processing sales decreased 9% to $21.8 billion, due principally to lower average selling prices for soybeans, protein meal, refined oil, and biodiesel partially offset by increased sales volumes of soybeans and fertilizer. Corn Processing sales increased 3% to $7.9 billion primarily as a result of increased sales volumes of ethanol and lysine partially offset by lower average selling prices of ethanol, sweeteners, and starches. Agricultural Services sales decreased 17% to $26.8 billion, due to lower average selling prices, in line with year over year declines in underlying commodity prices and lower sales volumes. Other sales decreased 3% to $5.2 billion, primarily due to lower average selling prices of wheat flour partially offset by increased wheat flour sales volumes and higher average selling prices and sales volumes for cocoa products. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Cost of products sold decreased 11% to $57.8 billion, due principally to decreased agricultural commodity costs including the impact of changes in LIFO inventory valuations which reduced cost of products sold by $42 million in 2010 compared to $517 million in 2009. Manufacturing expenses decreased 1% or $60 million, primarily due to lower energy, chemical and fuel costs partially offset by higher employee related costs and a $124 million increase in depreciation and amortization expense. In 2010, manufacturing expenses included additional costs associated with the Companys new greenfield plants. Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased 1% to $1.4 billion, due principally to decreased provisions for doubtful accounts partially offset by increased expenses for legal, professional, and commercial services. Equity earnings of unconsolidated affiliates increased $416 million to $561 million primarily due to the absence of a non cash charge of $275 million in 2009 related to currency derivative losses of the Companys equity investee, Gruma S.A.B. de C.V. Interest income declined $55 million to $126 million primarily due to lower average interest rates. Interest expense declined $47 million to $422 million primarily due to lower average interest rates. Other expense net increased $91 million due to pre tax charges of $75 million related to the early extinguishment of debt and $59 million for unrealized losses on interest rate swaps (for more information on the charges related to the early extinguishment of debt, see Note 8 in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data). Income taxes decreased $146 million due to a lower effective income tax rate partially offset by higher pretax earnings. The Companys effective income tax rate during 2010 was 25.8%. In 2009, the effective income tax rate was 32.5% which included $158 million of income tax charges related to the partial restructuring of the holding company structure through which the Company holds a portion of its equity investment in Wilmar. Excluding these Wilmar charges, the Companys effective income tax rate for 2009 was 26.2%. For more information concerning Wilmar tax matters see Note 13 in Item 8. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Operating profit by segment is as follows: 2010 2009 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing and Origination $ 818 $ 767 $ 51 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel and Other 291 265 26 Asia 291 248 43 Total Oilseeds Processing 1,400 1,280 120 Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 529 500 29 Bioproducts 193 (315 ) 508 Total Corn Processing 722 185 537 Agricultural Services Merchandising and Handling 583 832 (249 ) Transportation 85 162 (77 ) Total Agricultural Services 668 994 (326 ) Other Processing 403 51 352 Financial 46 (57 ) 103 Total Other 449 (6 ) 455 Total Segment Operating Profit 3,239 2,453 786 Corporate (see below) (654 ) 47 (701 ) Earnings Before Income Taxes $ 2,585 $ 2,500 $ 85 Corporate results are as follows: 2010 2009 Change (In millions) LIFO credit $ 42 $ 517 $ (475 ) Unallocated interest expense net (283 ) (192 ) (91 ) Unallocated corporate costs (266 ) (252 ) (14 ) Charges on early extinguishment of debt (75 ) (75 ) Unrealized losses on interest rate swaps (59 ) (59 ) Other (13 ) (26 ) 13 Total Corporate $ (654 ) $ 47 $ (701 ) Oilseeds Processing operating profit increased 9% to $1.4 billion. Crushing and origination results increased $51 million due to higher North American soybean crushing margins and favorable soft seed commodity positioning, partially offset by lower soybean crushing margins in Europe and South America. Refining, packaging, biodiesel and other operating profit increased $26 million due primarily to higher South American biodiesel results and improved margins in Europe. Oilseeds processing results in Asia increased $43 million to $291 million due principally to improved equity earnings of Wilmar. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Corn Processing operating profit increased $537 million to $722 million. Bioproducts operating profit increased $508 million due to improved ethanol and lysine sales volumes and improved ethanol margins resulting from lower net corn costs and decreased manufacturing costs. Ethanol sales volumes increased due to favorable gasoline blending economics and increased merchandising activity. Sweeteners and starches operating profit increased $29 million due to lower net corn and manufacturing costs due principally to lower energy and chemical prices. These lower manufacturing costs were partially offset by lower average selling prices. Agricultural Services operating profit decreased $326 million to $668 million. Merchandising and handling results decreased $249 million. Enhanced volume and margin opportunities created by 2009s volatile commodity markets and tight credit markets did not recur. Volumes and margins in 2010 benefited from strong demand for U.S. soybean exports following the short South American 2009 crop. Transportation results decreased $77 million due to lower barge freight rates and decreased barge utilization levels resulting from weaker U.S. economic conditions and the late, extended North American harvest. Other operating profit increased $455 million to $449 million. Other processing operating profit increased $352 million due to improved equity earnings from the Companys investment in Gruma, improved wheat milling margins, and improved cocoa processing results. Financial operating profit increased $103 million due primarily to the absence of losses experienced in 2009 from managed fund investments and captive insurance operations. Corporate results decreased $701 million. The effects of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations resulted in a credit of $42 million for the year ended June 30, 2010, compared to a credit of $517 million for the year ended June 30, 2009. Unallocated interest expense net increased $91 million reflecting a reduction in corporate interest income caused by lower short term interest rates and lower working capital requirements of the operating segments. In March 2010, the Company repurchased $500 million of long term debt which generated a $75 million pretax charge on early extinguishment of debt. In connection with a debt remarketing planned for 2011, the Company entered into interest rate swaps to fix the interest rate on a portion of the planned remarketing which resulted in $59 million of unrealized losses on interest rate swaps. Liquidity and Capital Resources A Company objective is to have sufficient liquidity, balance sheet strength, and financial flexibility to fund the operating and capital requirements of a capital intensive agricultural commodity based business. The primary source of funds to finance the Companys operations and capital expenditures is cash generated by operations. In addition, the Company maintains a commercial paper borrowing facility and has access to equity and debt capital from public and private sources in both U.S. and international markets. At June 30, 2011, the Company had $1.4 billion of cash, cash equivalents, and short term marketable securities and a current ratio, defined as current assets divided by current liabilities, of 2.1 to 1. Included in working capital is $7.1 billion of readily marketable commodity inventories. Cash used in operating activities was $2.3 billion for the year compared to cash provided by operating activities of $2.7 billion last year. Working capital increased in the current year due principally to higher agricultural commodity market prices. Cash used in investing activities of $1.7 billion, principally for capital expenditures, businesses acquired, and investments, was in line with last year. Cash provided by financing activities was $3.6 billion for the year compared to cash used in financing activities of $1.0 billion last year. Net borrowings increased primarily to fund higher working capital. Short term borrowings increased due principally to higher commercial paper borrowings, and long term borrowings increased primarily as a result of the issuance of $1.5 billion of 18 month floating rate notes in February 2011. In addition, the Company issued common stock and received $1.75 billion under the forward stock purchase component of the Companys Equity Units (see Note 8 in Item 8). At June 30, 2011, the Companys capital resources included net worth of $18.8 billion and lines of credit totaling $6.9 billion, of which $5.7 billion was unused. The Companys ratio of long term debt to total capital (the sum of the Companys long term debt and shareholders equity) was 30% at June 30, 2011 and 32% at June 30, 2010. This ratio is a measure of the Companys long term indebtedness and is an indicator of financial flexibility. Of the Companys total lines of credit, $4.6 billion support a commercial paper borrowing facility, against which there were $620 million of commercial paper outstanding at June 30, 2011. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) The Company has outstanding $1.15 billion principal amount of convertible senior notes. As of June 30, 2011, none of the conditions permitting conversion of these notes had been satisfied. The Company has purchased call options and warrants intended to reduce the potential shareholder dilution upon future conversion of the notes. As of June 30, 2011, the market price of the Companys common stock was not greater than the exercise price of the purchased call options or warrants related to the convertible senior notes. On July 1, 2011, the Company entered into a 364 day accounts receivable securitization facility. The facility provides the Company with up to $1.0 billion in liquidity. Under the facility, the Companys U.S. originated trade accounts receivable are sold to a wholly owned bankruptcy remote entity which then sells an undivided interest in the receivable as a collateral for any borrowings under the facility. Any borrowings under the facility will be recorded as secured borrowings. As of August 24, 2011, the Company had not used the facility. This facility expands the Companys access to liquidity through efficient use of its balance sheet assets. The Companys credit facilities and certain debentures require the Company to comply with specified financial and non financial covenants including maintenance of minimum tangible net worth as well as limitations related to incurring liens, secured debt, and certain other financing arrangements. The Company is in compliance with these covenants as of June 30, 2011. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements In the normal course of business, the Company enters into contracts and commitments which obligate the Company to make payments in the future. The following table sets forth the Companys significant future obligations by time period. Purchases include commodity based contracts entered into in the normal course of business, which are further described in Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, energy related purchase contracts entered into in the normal course of business, and other purchase obligations related to the Companys normal business activities. The following table does not include unrecognized income tax benefits of $79 million as of June 30, 2011 as the Company is unable to reasonably estimate the timing of settlement. Where applicable, information included in the Companys consolidated financial statements and notes is cross referenced in this table. Payments Due by Period Contractual Item 8 Note Less than 1 3 3 5 More than Obligations Reference Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years (In millions) Purchases Inventories $ 17,457 $ 16,593 $ 807 $ 43 $ 14 Energy 456 340 76 22 18 Other 398 168 186 35 9 Total purchases 18,311 17,101 1,069 100 41 Short term debt 1,875 1,875 Long term debt Note 8 8,444 178 2,875 46 5,345 Estimated interest payments 7,177 384 690 646 5,457 Operating leases Note 14 1,163 233 334 225 371 Estimated pension and other postretirement plan contributions (1) Note 15 167 55 19 21 72 Total $ 37,137 $ 19,826 $ 4,987 $ 1,038 $ 11,286 (1) Includes pension contributions of $47 million for fiscal 2012. The Company is unable to estimate the amount of pension contributions beyond fiscal year 2012. For more information concerning the Companys pension and other postretirement plans, see Note 15 in Item 8. At June 30, 2011, the Company estimates it will spend approximately $2.8 billion through calendar year 2014 to complete currently approved capital projects which are not included in the table above. The Company also has outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds of $620 million at June 30, 2011. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) In addition, the Company has entered into agreements, primarily debt guarantee agreements related to equity method investees, which could obligate the Company to make future payments. The Companys liability under these agreements arises only if the primary entity fails to perform its contractual obligation. The Company has collateral for a portion of these contingent obligations. At June 30, 2011, these contingent obligations totaled approximately $121 million. Amounts outstanding for the primary entity under these contingent obligations were $69 million at June 30, 2011. Critical Accounting Policies The process of preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the carrying values of the Companys assets and liabilities as well as the recognition of revenues and expenses. These estimates and judgments are based on the Companys historical experience and managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Certain of the Companys accounting policies are considered critical, as these policies are important to the depiction of the Companys financial statements and require significant or complex judgment by management. Management has discussed with the Companys Audit Committee the development, selection, disclosure, and application of these critical accounting policies. Following are the accounting policies management considers critical to the Companys financial statements. Inventories and Derivatives Certain of the Companys merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, forward fixed price purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts are valued at estimated market values. These merchandisable agricultural commodities are freely traded, have quoted market prices, and may be sold without significant additional processing. Management estimates market value based on exchange quoted prices, adjusted for differences in local markets. Changes in the market values of these inventories and contracts are recognized in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. If management used different methods or factors to estimate market value, amounts reported as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. Additionally, if market conditions change subsequent to year end, amounts reported in future periods as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. The Company, from time to time, uses derivative contracts designated as cash flow hedges to fix the purchase price of anticipated volumes of commodities to be purchased and processed in a future month, to fix the purchase price of the Companys anticipated natural gas requirements for certain production facilities, and to fix the sales price of anticipated volumes of ethanol. The change in the market value of such derivative contracts has historically been, and is expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold and net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. If it is determined that the derivative instruments used are no longer effective at offsetting changes in the price of the hedged item, then the changes in the market value of these exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts would be recorded in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. See Note 4 in Item 8 for additional information. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Employee Benefit Plans The Company provides substantially all U.S. employees and employees at certain international subsidiaries with pension benefits. Eligible U.S. employees with five or more years of service prior to January 1, 2009 participate in a defined benefit pension plan. Eligible U.S. employees hired on or after January 1, 2009 (and eligible salaried employees with less than five years of service prior to January 1, 2009) participate in a cash balance pension formula. The Company provides eligible U.S. employees who retire under qualifying conditions with access to postretirement health care, at full cost to the retiree (certain employees are grandfathered into subsidized coverage). In order to measure the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans, management makes several estimates and assumptions, including interest rates used to discount certain liabilities, rates of return on assets set aside to fund these plans, rates of compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and anticipated future health care costs. These estimates and assumptions are based on the Companys historical experience combined with managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Management also uses third party actuaries to assist in measuring the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans. If management used different estimates and assumptions regarding these plans, the funded status of the plans could vary significantly, and the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. See Note 15 in Item 8 for additional information. Income Taxes The Company frequently faces challenges from U.S. and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company records reserves for estimates of potential additional tax owed by the Company. As an example, a subsidiary of the Company received tax assessments in the amount of $665 million consisting of tax, penalty, and interest (adjusted for interest and variation in currency exchange rates) from the Brazilian Federal Revenue Service challenging the deductibility of commodity hedging losses incurred by the Company for tax years 2004, 2006 and 2007. The Company evaluated its tax position regarding these hedging transactions and concluded, based in part upon advice from Brazilian legal counsel, that it was appropriate to recognize the tax benefits of these deductions (See Note 13 in Item 8 for additional information). Deferred tax assets represent items to be used as tax deductions or credits in future tax returns, and the related tax benefit has already been recognized in the Companys income statement. The realization of the Companys deferred tax assets is dependent upon future taxable income in specific tax jurisdictions, the timing and amount of which are uncertain. The Company evaluates all available positive and negative evidence including estimated future reversals of existing temporary differences, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies, and recent financial results. Valuation allowances related to these deferred tax assets have been established to the extent the realization of the tax benefit is not likely. To the extent the Company were to favorably resolve matters for which accruals have been established or be required to pay amounts in excess of the aforementioned reserves, the Companys effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be impacted. Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and the Companys share of the undistributed earnings of affiliated corporate joint venture companies accounted for on the equity method amounting to approximately $8.2 billion at June 30, 2011, are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned factors may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and cash flows of the Companys assets in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its factories. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment, technology, and companies related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. Assets are written down after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these assets, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Goodwill and other intangible assets The Company accounts for its goodwill and other intangible assets in accordance with ASC Topic 350, Intangibles Goodwill and Other. Under this standard, goodwill and intangible assets deemed to have indefinite lives are not amortized but are subject to annual impairment tests. The Company evaluates goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year or whenever there are indicators that the carrying value of the assets may not be fully recoverable. Definite lived intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its impairment tests, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Valuation of Marketable Securities and Investments in Affiliates The Company classifies the majority of its marketable securities as available for sale and carries these securities at fair value. The Company applies the equity method for investments over which the Company has the ability to exercise significant influence. These investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings and are adjusted, where appropriate, for amortizable basis differences between the investment balance and the underlying net assets of the investee. For publicly traded securities, the fair value of the Companys investments is readily available based on quoted market prices. For non publicly traded securities, managements assessment of fair value is based on valuation methodologies including discounted cash flows and estimates of sales proceeds. In the event of a decline in fair value of an investment below carrying value, management is required to determine if the decline in fair value is other than temporary. In evaluating the nature of a decline in the fair value of an investment, management considers the market conditions, trends of earnings, discounted cash flows, trading volumes, and other key measures of the investment as well as the Companys ability and intent to hold the investment. When such a decline in value is deemed to be other than temporary, an impairment loss is recognized in the current period operating results to the extent of the decline. See Notes 5 and 6 in Item 8 for information regarding the Companys marketable securities and investments in affiliates. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these marketable securities, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in: commodity market prices as they relate to the Companys net commodity position, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and prices of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to factors such as changes in weather conditions, disease, plantings, government programs and policies, competition, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. The Company enters into derivative and non derivative contracts with the primary objective of managing the Companys exposure to adverse price movements in the agricultural commodities used for, and produced in, our business operations. The Company will also use exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the volatility of the relationship between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contracts defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company, from time to time, enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold or net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. The Companys commodity position consists of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, related purchase and sales contracts, energy and freight contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts including contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements, net of sales. The fair value of the Companys commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing all of the commodity positions at quoted market prices for the period, where available, or utilizing a close proxy. The Company has established metrics to monitor the amount of market risk exposure, which consist of volumetric limits, and value at risk (VaR) limits. VaR measures the potential loss, at a 95% confidence level, that could be incurred over a one year period. Volumetric limits are monitored daily and VaR calculations and sensitivity analysis are monitored weekly. In addition to measuring the hypothetical loss resulting from an adverse two standard deviation move in market prices (assuming no correlations) over a one year period using VaR, sensitivity analysis is performed measuring the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in market prices. The highest, lowest, and average weekly position for each of the last two years together with the market risk from a hypothetical 10% adverse price change is as follows: 2011 2010 Long/(Short) Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest position $ 2,388 $ 239 $ 738 $ 74 Lowest position 368 37 (183 ) (18 ) Average position 1,644 164 216 22 The change in fair value of the average position for 2011 compared to 2010 was principally the result of changes in average quantities underlying the weekly commodity position. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) Currencies The Company conducts its business in over 75 countries. For the majority of the Companys subsidiaries located outside the United States, the local currency is the functional currency. To reduce the risks associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, the Company enters into currency exchange contracts to minimize its foreign currency position related to transactions denominated primarily in Euro, British pound, Canadian dollar, and Brazilian real currencies. These currencies represent the major functional or local currencies in which recurring business transactions occur. The Company does not use currency exchange contracts as hedges against amounts permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The currency exchange contracts used are forward contracts, swaps with banks, exchange traded futures contracts, and over the counter options. The changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $8.2 billion at June 30, 2011, and $6.4 billion at June 30, 2010. This increase is due to the appreciation of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar and an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The potential loss in fair value, which would principally be recognized in Other Comprehensive Income, resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $837 million and $639 million for 2011 and 2010, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 50 basis points decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2011 2010 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 9,108 $ 7,700 Excess of fair value over carrying value 842 870 Market risk 333 289 The increase in fair value of long term debt in 2011 resulted principally from the issuance of $1.5 billion of 18 month floating rate notes in February 2011. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Analysis of Statements of Earnings Prior year net sales and other operating income by segment has been reclassified to conform to the current years presentation resulting in reclassified net sales and other operating income at the segment level with no impact to total net sales and other operating income or operating profit. Net sales and other operating income by segment are as follows: 2011 2010 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing and Origination $ 16,924 $ 14,487 $ 2,437 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel and Other 9,476 7,133 2,343 Asia 262 190 72 Total Oilseeds Processing 26,662 21,810 4,852 Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 3,766 3,264 502 Bioproducts 6,142 4,610 1,532 Total Corn Processing 9,908 7,874 2,034 Agricultural Services Merchandising and Handling 37,705 26,589 11,116 Transportation 222 167 55 Total Agricultural Services 37,927 26,756 11,171 Other Processing 6,069 5,147 922 Financial 110 95 15 Total Other 6,179 5,242 937 Total $ 80,676 $ 61,682 $ 18,994 Net sales and other operating income increased $19.0 billion, or 31%, to $80.7 billion. Net sales and other operating income increased $14.2 billion due to higher average selling prices, primarily related to higher underlying commodity costs, and increased $4.8 billion due to increased sales volumes, including sales volumes from acquisitions. Agricultural Services sales increased 42% to $37.9 billion due to higher average selling prices of agricultural commodities and higher global sales volumes. Oilseeds Processing sales increased 22% to $26.7 billion primarily due to higher average selling prices for vegetable oils, soybeans, biodiesel, and protein meal. Corn Processing sales increased 26% to $9.9 billion due to higher average selling prices and increased sales volumes of ethanol and other corn products, in part due to the Companys two new ethanol dry mills coming on line. Other sales increased 18% to $6.2 billion primarily due to higher average selling prices of cocoa and cocoa products and wheat flour; and increased sales volumes of cocoa and cocoa products. ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Cost of products sold increased 32% to $76.4 billion due to higher costs of agricultural commodities, negative impacts resulting from changes in LIFO inventory valuations, and higher manufacturing costs. Cost of products sold includes charges of $368 million from the effect of increasing agricultural commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuation reserves, compared to credits of $42 million in the prior year caused by decreasing agricultural commodity prices. Manufacturing expenses increased $410 million due primarily to higher processed volumes, including the volumes of the Companys new greenfield operations coming on line, and higher average unit costs for certain chemicals and fuels used in the Companys processing and transportation operations. During the second quarter of fiscal 2011, the Company updated its estimates for service lives of certain of its machinery and equipment assets. This change in estimate resulted in a $133 million decrease in depreciation expense compared to the amount of depreciation expense the Company would have recorded using the previously estimated service lives. Manufacturing expenses included $94 million in fiscal 2011 related to the start up of new plants compared to $110 million in the prior year. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased 15% to $1.6 billion. This increase was due to higher employee related costs and higher administrative expenses. Higher employee related costs principally reflect the increase in number of employees during the year and included higher salaries and wages, higher accruals for performance based compensation and higher benefit expenses. Equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates declined 3% to $542 million. The decline in earnings from the Companys equity investee, Wilmar, were partially offset by higher earnings of the Companys equity investee, Gruma, in part due to a gain on disposition of assets. Interest income increased 8% to $136 million principally resulting from higher interest earned on advances to affiliates. Interest expense increased 14% to $482 million. Interest costs capitalized as a component of major construction projects in progress was $7 million compared to $75 million in the prior year. Interest incurred on long term debt declined $24 million as a result of debt retirements while interest incurred on short term debt increased $15 million due to higher average borrowings driven by higher working capital requirements. Other (income) expense net increased $255 million primarily due to the $71 million gain resulting from the revaluation of the Companys previously held equity interest in Golden Peanut upon acquisition of the remaining 50% interest, gains on interest rate swaps of $30 million compared to a loss of $59 million in the prior year, and a decrease in charges related to early extinguishment of debt from $75 million in the prior year to $15 million in the current year. Income taxes increased $331 million to $997 million due to a higher effective income tax rate and higher pretax earnings. The Companys effective income tax rate increased to 33.1% during 2011 compared to 25.8% in fiscal 2010. The increase in the current year rate is primarily due to a geographic mix of earnings that shifted more to the U.S., a higher U.S. effective income tax rate, income tax expense associated with foreign currency re measurement of non monetary assets in Brazil, and adjustments to deferred income tax balances. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Operating profit by segment is as follows: 2011 2010 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing and Origination $ 1,013 $ 818 $ 195 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel and Other 329 291 38 Asia 182 291 (109 ) Total Oilseeds Processing 1,524 1,400 124 Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 320 529 (209 ) Bioproducts 742 193 549 Total Corn Processing 1,062 722 340 Agricultural Services Merchandising and Handling 818 583 235 Transportation 104 85 19 Total Agricultural Services 922 668 254 Other Processing 474 403 71 Financial 39 46 (7 ) Total Other 513 449 64 Total Segment Operating Profit 4,021 3,239 782 Corporate (see below) (1,006 ) (654 ) (352 ) Earnings Before Income Taxes $ 3,015 $ 2,585 $ 430 Corporate results are as follows: 2011 2010 Change (In millions) LIFO credit (charge) $ (368 ) $ 42 $ (410 ) Unallocated interest expense net (335 ) (283 ) (52 ) Unallocated corporate costs (326 ) (266 ) (60 ) Charges on early extinguishment of debt (8 ) (75 ) 67 Gains (losses) on interest rate swaps 30 (59 ) 89 Other 1 (13 ) 14 Total Corporate $ (1,006 ) $ (654 ) $ (352 ) Oilseeds Processing operating profit increased 9% to $1.5 billion. Crushing and origination results increased $195 million to $1.0 billion, which include the $71 million gain on the revaluation of the Companys equity interest in Golden Peanut as a result of the acquisition of the remaining 50% interest. Improved North American crushing results, particularly for cotton seed and canola, were partially offset by lower crushing margins in South America and Europe. Margins globally were enhanced by good positioning and by improved origination results. In South America, fertilizer results improved due to higher margins and volumes. Refining, packaging, biodiesel and other results increased $38 million to $329 million due principally to higher packaged oils margins and improved North American and European biodiesel results. Asia results decreased $109 million due principally to decreased earnings from the Companys equity investee, Wilmar. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Corn Processing operating profit increased 47% to $1.1 billion, which includes favorable impacts from ownership positions, which were allocated to sweeteners and starches and bioproducts based on total grind. Sweeteners and starches operating profit decreased $209 million to $320 million due to higher net corn costs partially offset by higher sales volumes. Sales volumes increased due to U.S. export shipments of sweeteners and improved U.S. demand for industrial starches. Bioproducts operating profit improved $549 million primarily due to higher ethanol sales volumes and higher average selling prices leading to increased ethanol and lysine margins. Bioproducts margins were also enhanced by favorable corn ownership positions. Bioproducts results included startup costs related to the Companys new plants of $94 million in the current year compared to $107 million in the prior year. Agricultural Services operating profit increased 38% to $922 million. Merchandising and handling results increased due to higher corn and wheat sales volumes and higher margins. A large 2010 U.S. harvest combined with strong international demand resulted in higher U.S. export shipments. Merchandising and handling results this year include an insurance recovery of $67 million related to property damage and business interruption resulting from an October 2008 explosion at the Companys Destrehan, Louisiana export facility. International merchandising results were weaker in part due to positions impacted by unexpected shifts in crop supply caused by weather conditions and government actions in the Black Sea region. Transportation results increased $19 million to $104 million primarily due to higher barge freight rates and higher barge utilization levels, in part due to higher U.S. export volumes. Other operating profit increased 14% to $513 million. Other processing operating results improved in the Companys wheat milling and cocoa business units due principally to increased equity earnings from the Companys equity investee, Gruma, which include a $78 million gain related to the disposal of Gruma assets. Other financial operating profit decreased $7 million primarily due to higher captive insurance loss provisions principally related to a $67 million loss related to the Companys Destrehan, Louisiana export facility insurance claim. Corporate results decreased $352 million primarily due to the negative impact from changing LIFO inventory valuations and higher unallocated interest expense net. The effects of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory reserves resulted in charges of $368 million compared to credits of $42 million for the prior year. Corporate unallocated interest expense increased $52 million mostly due to lower capitalization of interest costs for construction projects in progress. Partially offsetting the higher LIFO and unallocated interest costs were $30 million of gains on interest rate swaps compared to prior year losses on interest rate swaps of $59 million. In addition, the prior year included charges of $75 million on early debt extinguishment compared to $8 million of similar charges in the current year. 2010 Compared to 2009 As an agricultural commodity based business, the Company is subject to a variety of market factors which affect the Companys operating results. Market expectations throughout most of fiscal 2010 for fewer global crop supply and demand imbalances, coupled with continuing uncertainty about short term demand, led to generally lower and less volatile agricultural commodity market prices and conditions. In addition, the late, extended U.S. harvest reduced profit opportunities. North American oilseed exports and U.S. crushing volumes were enhanced in 2010 by the poor supply of 2009 crop year soybeans in South America. Increased government mandates for the use of biodiesel in South America and Europe resulted in increased biodiesel demand and helped keep overall demand for refined and crude vegetable oil steady in these regions. However, in North America, demand for vegetable oils remained weak in 2010 due to low consumption of oils in the food service and biodiesel industries, in part due to the expiration of the biodiesel blending credit in the U.S. on January 1, 2010. Soybean protein meal demand improved, particularly in Asia. Market prices for corn decreased in 2010 resulting in lower raw material costs for corn processing and decreased average selling prices for sweeteners and starches. Lower energy, fuel and chemical costs per unit positively impacted the Companys manufacturing costs. More favorable ethanol blending economics together with increased ethanol merchandising activity resulted in increased demand, higher ethanol sales volumes, and improved margins. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Earnings before income taxes for 2010 include a credit of $42 million from the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations, compared to a credit of $517 million in 2009. Income taxes decreased $146 million due to a lower effective income tax rate, partially offset by higher pretax earnings. Income taxes for 2009 included a $158 million charge resulting from the restructuring of a holding company in which the Company holds a portion of its equity investment in Wilmar. Analysis of Statements of Earnings Net sales and other operating income by segment for 2010 and 2009 have been reclassified to conform to the current years presentation resulting in reclassified net sales and other operating income at the segment level with no impact to total net sales and other operating income or operating profit. Net sales and other operating income by segment are as follows: 2010 2009 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing and Origination $ 14,487 $ 15,013 $ (526 ) Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel and Other 7,133 8,756 (1,623 ) Asia 190 179 11 Total Oilseeds Processing 21,810 23,948 (2,138 ) Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 3,264 3,690 (426 ) Bioproducts 4,610 3,938 672 Total Corn Processing 7,874 7,628 246 Agricultural Services Merchandising and Handling 26,589 32,007 (5,418 ) Transportation 167 242 (75 ) Total Agricultural Services 26,756 32,249 (5,493 ) Other Processing 5,147 5,272 (125 ) Financial 95 110 (15 ) Total Other 5,242 5,382 (140 ) Total $ 61,682 $ 69,207 $ (7,525 ) Net sales and other operating income decreased 11% to $61.7 billion due principally to lower average selling prices in 2010 in line with year over year declines in underlying commodity costs. Oilseeds Processing sales decreased 9% to $21.8 billion, due principally to lower average selling prices for soybeans, protein meal, refined oil, and biodiesel partially offset by increased sales volumes of soybeans and fertilizer. Corn Processing sales increased 3% to $7.9 billion primarily as a result of increased sales volumes of ethanol and lysine partially offset by lower average selling prices of ethanol, sweeteners, and starches. Agricultural Services sales decreased 17% to $26.8 billion, due to lower average selling prices, in line with year over year declines in underlying commodity prices and lower sales volumes. Other sales decreased 3% to $5.2 billion, primarily due to lower average selling prices of wheat flour partially offset by increased wheat flour sales volumes and higher average selling prices and sales volumes for cocoa products. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Cost of products sold decreased 11% to $57.8 billion, due principally to decreased agricultural commodity costs including the impact of changes in LIFO inventory valuations which reduced cost of products sold by $42 million in 2010 compared to $517 million in 2009. Manufacturing expenses decreased 1% or $60 million, primarily due to lower energy, chemical and fuel costs partially offset by higher employee related costs and a $124 million increase in depreciation and amortization expense. In 2010, manufacturing expenses included additional costs associated with the Companys new greenfield plants. Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased 1% to $1.4 billion, due principally to decreased provisions for doubtful accounts partially offset by increased expenses for legal, professional, and commercial services. Equity earnings of unconsolidated affiliates increased $416 million to $561 million primarily due to the absence of a non cash charge of $275 million in 2009 related to currency derivative losses of the Companys equity investee, Gruma S.A.B. de C.V. Interest income declined $55 million to $126 million primarily due to lower average interest rates. Interest expense declined $47 million to $422 million primarily due to lower average interest rates. Other expense net increased $91 million due to pre tax charges of $75 million related to the early extinguishment of debt and $59 million for unrealized losses on interest rate swaps (for more information on the charges related to the early extinguishment of debt, see Note 8 in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data). Income taxes decreased $146 million due to a lower effective income tax rate partially offset by higher pretax earnings. The Companys effective income tax rate during 2010 was 25.8%. In 2009, the effective income tax rate was 32.5% which included $158 million of income tax charges related to the partial restructuring of the holding company structure through which the Company holds a portion of its equity investment in Wilmar. Excluding these Wilmar charges, the Companys effective income tax rate for 2009 was 26.2%. For more information concerning Wilmar tax matters see Note 13 in Item 8. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Operating profit by segment is as follows: 2010 2009 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing and Origination $ 818 $ 767 $ 51 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel and Other 291 265 26 Asia 291 248 43 Total Oilseeds Processing 1,400 1,280 120 Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 529 500 29 Bioproducts 193 (315 ) 508 Total Corn Processing 722 185 537 Agricultural Services Merchandising and Handling 583 832 (249 ) Transportation 85 162 (77 ) Total Agricultural Services 668 994 (326 ) Other Processing 403 51 352 Financial 46 (57 ) 103 Total Other 449 (6 ) 455 Total Segment Operating Profit 3,239 2,453 786 Corporate (see below) (654 ) 47 (701 ) Earnings Before Income Taxes $ 2,585 $ 2,500 $ 85 Corporate results are as follows: 2010 2009 Change (In millions) LIFO credit $ 42 $ 517 $ (475 ) Unallocated interest expense net (283 ) (192 ) (91 ) Unallocated corporate costs (266 ) (252 ) (14 ) Charges on early extinguishment of debt (75 ) (75 ) Unrealized losses on interest rate swaps (59 ) (59 ) Other (13 ) (26 ) 13 Total Corporate $ (654 ) $ 47 $ (701 ) Oilseeds Processing operating profit increased 9% to $1.4 billion. Crushing and origination results increased $51 million due to higher North American soybean crushing margins and favorable soft seed commodity positioning, partially offset by lower soybean crushing margins in Europe and South America. Refining, packaging, biodiesel and other operating profit increased $26 million due primarily to higher South American biodiesel results and improved margins in Europe. Oilseeds processing results in Asia increased $43 million to $291 million due principally to improved equity earnings of Wilmar. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Corn Processing operating profit increased $537 million to $722 million. Bioproducts operating profit increased $508 million due to improved ethanol and lysine sales volumes and improved ethanol margins resulting from lower net corn costs and decreased manufacturing costs. Ethanol sales volumes increased due to favorable gasoline blending economics and increased merchandising activity. Sweeteners and starches operating profit increased $29 million due to lower net corn and manufacturing costs due principally to lower energy and chemical prices. These lower manufacturing costs were partially offset by lower average selling prices. Agricultural Services operating profit decreased $326 million to $668 million. Merchandising and handling results decreased $249 million. Enhanced volume and margin opportunities created by 2009s volatile commodity markets and tight credit markets did not recur. Volumes and margins in 2010 benefited from strong demand for U.S. soybean exports following the short South American 2009 crop. Transportation results decreased $77 million due to lower barge freight rates and decreased barge utilization levels resulting from weaker U.S. economic conditions and the late, extended North American harvest. Other operating profit increased $455 million to $449 million. Other processing operating profit increased $352 million due to improved equity earnings from the Companys investment in Gruma, improved wheat milling margins, and improved cocoa processing results. Financial operating profit increased $103 million due primarily to the absence of losses experienced in 2009 from managed fund investments and captive insurance operations. Corporate results decreased $701 million. The effects of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations resulted in a credit of $42 million for the year ended June 30, 2010, compared to a credit of $517 million for the year ended June 30, 2009. Unallocated interest expense net increased $91 million reflecting a reduction in corporate interest income caused by lower short term interest rates and lower working capital requirements of the operating segments. In March 2010, the Company repurchased $500 million of long term debt which generated a $75 million pretax charge on early extinguishment of debt. In connection with a debt remarketing planned for 2011, the Company entered into interest rate swaps to fix the interest rate on a portion of the planned remarketing which resulted in $59 million of unrealized losses on interest rate swaps. Liquidity and Capital Resources A Company objective is to have sufficient liquidity, balance sheet strength, and financial flexibility to fund the operating and capital requirements of a capital intensive agricultural commodity based business. The primary source of funds to finance the Companys operations and capital expenditures is cash generated by operations. In addition, the Company maintains a commercial paper borrowing facility and has access to equity and debt capital from public and private sources in both U.S. and international markets. At June 30, 2011, the Company had $1.4 billion of cash, cash equivalents, and short term marketable securities and a current ratio, defined as current assets divided by current liabilities, of 2.1 to 1. Included in working capital is $7.1 billion of readily marketable commodity inventories. Cash used in operating activities was $2.3 billion for the year compared to cash provided by operating activities of $2.7 billion last year. Working capital increased in the current year due principally to higher agricultural commodity market prices. Cash used in investing activities of $1.7 billion, principally for capital expenditures, businesses acquired, and investments, was in line with last year. Cash provided by financing activities was $3.6 billion for the year compared to cash used in financing activities of $1.0 billion last year. Net borrowings increased primarily to fund higher working capital. Short term borrowings increased due principally to higher commercial paper borrowings, and long term borrowings increased primarily as a result of the issuance of $1.5 billion of 18 month floating rate notes in February 2011. In addition, the Company issued common stock and received $1.75 billion under the forward stock purchase component of the Companys Equity Units (see Note 8 in Item 8). At June 30, 2011, the Companys capital resources included net worth of $18.8 billion and lines of credit totaling $6.9 billion, of which $5.7 billion was unused. The Companys ratio of long term debt to total capital (the sum of the Companys long term debt and shareholders equity) was 30% at June 30, 2011 and 32% at June 30, 2010. This ratio is a measure of the Companys long term indebtedness and is an indicator of financial flexibility. Of the Companys total lines of credit, $4.6 billion support a commercial paper borrowing facility, against which there were $620 million of commercial paper outstanding at June 30, 2011. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) The Company has outstanding $1.15 billion principal amount of convertible senior notes. As of June 30, 2011, none of the conditions permitting conversion of these notes had been satisfied. The Company has purchased call options and warrants intended to reduce the potential shareholder dilution upon future conversion of the notes. As of June 30, 2011, the market price of the Companys common stock was not greater than the exercise price of the purchased call options or warrants related to the convertible senior notes. On July 1, 2011, the Company entered into a 364 day accounts receivable securitization facility. The facility provides the Company with up to $1.0 billion in liquidity. Under the facility, the Companys U.S. originated trade accounts receivable are sold to a wholly owned bankruptcy remote entity which then sells an undivided interest in the receivable as a collateral for any borrowings under the facility. Any borrowings under the facility will be recorded as secured borrowings. As of August 24, 2011, the Company had not used the facility. This facility expands the Companys access to liquidity through efficient use of its balance sheet assets. The Companys credit facilities and certain debentures require the Company to comply with specified financial and non financial covenants including maintenance of minimum tangible net worth as well as limitations related to incurring liens, secured debt, and certain other financing arrangements. The Company is in compliance with these covenants as of June 30, 2011. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements In the normal course of business, the Company enters into contracts and commitments which obligate the Company to make payments in the future. The following table sets forth the Companys significant future obligations by time period. Purchases include commodity based contracts entered into in the normal course of business, which are further described in Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, energy related purchase contracts entered into in the normal course of business, and other purchase obligations related to the Companys normal business activities. The following table does not include unrecognized income tax benefits of $79 million as of June 30, 2011 as the Company is unable to reasonably estimate the timing of settlement. Where applicable, information included in the Companys consolidated financial statements and notes is cross referenced in this table. Payments Due by Period Contractual Item 8 Note Less than 1 3 3 5 More than Obligations Reference Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years (In millions) Purchases Inventories $ 17,457 $ 16,593 $ 807 $ 43 $ 14 Energy 456 340 76 22 18 Other 398 168 186 35 9 Total purchases 18,311 17,101 1,069 100 41 Short term debt 1,875 1,875 Long term debt Note 8 8,444 178 2,875 46 5,345 Estimated interest payments 7,177 384 690 646 5,457 Operating leases Note 14 1,163 233 334 225 371 Estimated pension and other postretirement plan contributions (1) Note 15 167 55 19 21 72 Total $ 37,137 $ 19,826 $ 4,987 $ 1,038 $ 11,286 (1) Includes pension contributions of $47 million for fiscal 2012. The Company is unable to estimate the amount of pension contributions beyond fiscal year 2012. For more information concerning the Companys pension and other postretirement plans, see Note 15 in Item 8. At June 30, 2011, the Company estimates it will spend approximately $2.8 billion through calendar year 2014 to complete currently approved capital projects which are not included in the table above. The Company also has outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds of $620 million at June 30, 2011. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) In addition, the Company has entered into agreements, primarily debt guarantee agreements related to equity method investees, which could obligate the Company to make future payments. The Companys liability under these agreements arises only if the primary entity fails to perform its contractual obligation. The Company has collateral for a portion of these contingent obligations. At June 30, 2011, these contingent obligations totaled approximately $121 million. Amounts outstanding for the primary entity under these contingent obligations were $69 million at June 30, 2011. Critical Accounting Policies The process of preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the carrying values of the Companys assets and liabilities as well as the recognition of revenues and expenses. These estimates and judgments are based on the Companys historical experience and managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Certain of the Companys accounting policies are considered critical, as these policies are important to the depiction of the Companys financial statements and require significant or complex judgment by management. Management has discussed with the Companys Audit Committee the development, selection, disclosure, and application of these critical accounting policies. Following are the accounting policies management considers critical to the Companys financial statements. Inventories and Derivatives Certain of the Companys merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, forward fixed price purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts are valued at estimated market values. These merchandisable agricultural commodities are freely traded, have quoted market prices, and may be sold without significant additional processing. Management estimates market value based on exchange quoted prices, adjusted for differences in local markets. Changes in the market values of these inventories and contracts are recognized in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. If management used different methods or factors to estimate market value, amounts reported as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. Additionally, if market conditions change subsequent to year end, amounts reported in future periods as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. The Company, from time to time, uses derivative contracts designated as cash flow hedges to fix the purchase price of anticipated volumes of commodities to be purchased and processed in a future month, to fix the purchase price of the Companys anticipated natural gas requirements for certain production facilities, and to fix the sales price of anticipated volumes of ethanol. The change in the market value of such derivative contracts has historically been, and is expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold and net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. If it is determined that the derivative instruments used are no longer effective at offsetting changes in the price of the hedged item, then the changes in the market value of these exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts would be recorded in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. See Note 4 in Item 8 for additional information. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Employee Benefit Plans The Company provides substantially all U.S. employees and employees at certain international subsidiaries with pension benefits. Eligible U.S. employees with five or more years of service prior to January 1, 2009 participate in a defined benefit pension plan. Eligible U.S. employees hired on or after January 1, 2009 (and eligible salaried employees with less than five years of service prior to January 1, 2009) participate in a cash balance pension formula. The Company provides eligible U.S. employees who retire under qualifying conditions with access to postretirement health care, at full cost to the retiree (certain employees are grandfathered into subsidized coverage). In order to measure the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans, management makes several estimates and assumptions, including interest rates used to discount certain liabilities, rates of return on assets set aside to fund these plans, rates of compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and anticipated future health care costs. These estimates and assumptions are based on the Companys historical experience combined with managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Management also uses third party actuaries to assist in measuring the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans. If management used different estimates and assumptions regarding these plans, the funded status of the plans could vary significantly, and the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. See Note 15 in Item 8 for additional information. Income Taxes The Company frequently faces challenges from U.S. and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company records reserves for estimates of potential additional tax owed by the Company. As an example, a subsidiary of the Company received tax assessments in the amount of $665 million consisting of tax, penalty, and interest (adjusted for interest and variation in currency exchange rates) from the Brazilian Federal Revenue Service challenging the deductibility of commodity hedging losses incurred by the Company for tax years 2004, 2006 and 2007. The Company evaluated its tax position regarding these hedging transactions and concluded, based in part upon advice from Brazilian legal counsel, that it was appropriate to recognize the tax benefits of these deductions (See Note 13 in Item 8 for additional information). Deferred tax assets represent items to be used as tax deductions or credits in future tax returns, and the related tax benefit has already been recognized in the Companys income statement. The realization of the Companys deferred tax assets is dependent upon future taxable income in specific tax jurisdictions, the timing and amount of which are uncertain. The Company evaluates all available positive and negative evidence including estimated future reversals of existing temporary differences, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies, and recent financial results. Valuation allowances related to these deferred tax assets have been established to the extent the realization of the tax benefit is not likely. To the extent the Company were to favorably resolve matters for which accruals have been established or be required to pay amounts in excess of the aforementioned reserves, the Companys effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be impacted. Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and the Companys share of the undistributed earnings of affiliated corporate joint venture companies accounted for on the equity method amounting to approximately $8.2 billion at June 30, 2011, are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned factors may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and cash flows of the Companys assets in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its factories. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment, technology, and companies related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. Assets are written down after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these assets, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Goodwill and other intangible assets The Company accounts for its goodwill and other intangible assets in accordance with ASC Topic 350, Intangibles Goodwill and Other. Under this standard, goodwill and intangible assets deemed to have indefinite lives are not amortized but are subject to annual impairment tests. The Company evaluates goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year or whenever there are indicators that the carrying value of the assets may not be fully recoverable. Definite lived intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its impairment tests, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Valuation of Marketable Securities and Investments in Affiliates The Company classifies the majority of its marketable securities as available for sale and carries these securities at fair value. The Company applies the equity method for investments over which the Company has the ability to exercise significant influence. These investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings and are adjusted, where appropriate, for amortizable basis differences between the investment balance and the underlying net assets of the investee. For publicly traded securities, the fair value of the Companys investments is readily available based on quoted market prices. For non publicly traded securities, managements assessment of fair value is based on valuation methodologies including discounted cash flows and estimates of sales proceeds. In the event of a decline in fair value of an investment below carrying value, management is required to determine if the decline in fair value is other than temporary. In evaluating the nature of a decline in the fair value of an investment, management considers the market conditions, trends of earnings, discounted cash flows, trading volumes, and other key measures of the investment as well as the Companys ability and intent to hold the investment. When such a decline in value is deemed to be other than temporary, an impairment loss is recognized in the current period operating results to the extent of the decline. See Notes 5 and 6 in Item 8 for information regarding the Companys marketable securities and investments in affiliates. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these marketable securities, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in: commodity market prices as they relate to the Companys net commodity position, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and prices of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to factors such as changes in weather conditions, disease, plantings, government programs and policies, competition, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. The Company enters into derivative and non derivative contracts with the primary objective of managing the Companys exposure to adverse price movements in the agricultural commodities used for, and produced in, our business operations. The Company will also use exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the volatility of the relationship between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contracts defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company, from time to time, enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold or net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. The Companys commodity position consists of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, related purchase and sales contracts, energy and freight contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts including contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements, net of sales. The fair value of the Companys commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing all of the commodity positions at quoted market prices for the period, where available, or utilizing a close proxy. The Company has established metrics to monitor the amount of market risk exposure, which consist of volumetric limits, and value at risk (VaR) limits. VaR measures the potential loss, at a 95% confidence level, that could be incurred over a one year period. Volumetric limits are monitored daily and VaR calculations and sensitivity analysis are monitored weekly. In addition to measuring the hypothetical loss resulting from an adverse two standard deviation move in market prices (assuming no correlations) over a one year period using VaR, sensitivity analysis is performed measuring the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in market prices. The highest, lowest, and average weekly position for each of the last two years together with the market risk from a hypothetical 10% adverse price change is as follows: 2011 2010 Long/(Short) Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest position $ 2,388 $ 239 $ 738 $ 74 Lowest position 368 37 (183 ) (18 ) Average position 1,644 164 216 22 The change in fair value of the average position for 2011 compared to 2010 was principally the result of changes in average quantities underlying the weekly commodity position. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) Currencies The Company conducts its business in over 75 countries. For the majority of the Companys subsidiaries located outside the United States, the local currency is the functional currency. To reduce the risks associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, the Company enters into currency exchange contracts to minimize its foreign currency position related to transactions denominated primarily in Euro, British pound, Canadian dollar, and Brazilian real currencies. These currencies represent the major functional or local currencies in which recurring business transactions occur. The Company does not use currency exchange contracts as hedges against amounts permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The currency exchange contracts used are forward contracts, swaps with banks, exchange traded futures contracts, and over the counter options. The changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $8.2 billion at June 30, 2011, and $6.4 billion at June 30, 2010. This increase is due to the appreciation of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar and an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The potential loss in fair value, which would principally be recognized in Other Comprehensive Income, resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $837 million and $639 million for 2011 and 2010, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 50 basis points decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2011 2010 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 9,108 $ 7,700 Excess of fair value over carrying value 842 870 Market risk 333 289 The increase in fair value of long term debt in 2011 resulted principally from the issuance of $1.5 billion of 18 month floating rate notes in February 2011. 
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Cost of products sold increased 32% to $76.4 billion due to higher costs of agricultural commodities, negative impacts resulting from changes in LIFO inventory valuations, and higher manufacturing costs. Cost of products sold includes charges of $368 million from the effect of increasing agricultural commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuation reserves, compared to credits of $42 million in the prior year caused by decreasing agricultural commodity prices. Manufacturing expenses increased $410 million due primarily to higher processed volumes, including the volumes of the Companys new greenfield operations coming on line, and higher average unit costs for certain chemicals and fuels used in the Companys processing and transportation operations. During the second quarter of fiscal 2011, the Company updated its estimates for service lives of certain of its machinery and equipment assets. This change in estimate resulted in a $133 million decrease in depreciation expense compared to the amount of depreciation expense the Company would have recorded using the previously estimated service lives. Manufacturing expenses included $94 million in fiscal 2011 related to the start up of new plants compared to $110 million in the prior year. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased 15% to $1.6 billion. This increase was due to higher employee related costs and higher administrative expenses. Higher employee related costs principally reflect the increase in number of employees during the year and included higher salaries and wages, higher accruals for performance based compensation and higher benefit expenses. Equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates declined 3% to $542 million. The decline in earnings from the Companys equity investee, Wilmar, were partially offset by higher earnings of the Companys equity investee, Gruma, in part due to a gain on disposition of assets. Interest income increased 8% to $136 million principally resulting from higher interest earned on advances to affiliates. Interest expense increased 14% to $482 million. Interest costs capitalized as a component of major construction projects in progress was $7 million compared to $75 million in the prior year. Interest incurred on long term debt declined $24 million as a result of debt retirements while interest incurred on short term debt increased $15 million due to higher average borrowings driven by higher working capital requirements. Other (income) expense net increased $255 million primarily due to the $71 million gain resulting from the revaluation of the Companys previously held equity interest in Golden Peanut upon acquisition of the remaining 50% interest, gains on interest rate swaps of $30 million compared to a loss of $59 million in the prior year, and a decrease in charges related to early extinguishment of debt from $75 million in the prior year to $15 million in the current year. Income taxes increased $331 million to $997 million due to a higher effective income tax rate and higher pretax earnings. The Companys effective income tax rate increased to 33.1% during 2011 compared to 25.8% in fiscal 2010. The increase in the current year rate is primarily due to a geographic mix of earnings that shifted more to the U.S., a higher U.S. effective income tax rate, income tax expense associated with foreign currency re measurement of non monetary assets in Brazil, and adjustments to deferred income tax balances. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Operating profit by segment is as follows: 2011 2010 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing and Origination $ 1,013 $ 818 $ 195 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel and Other 329 291 38 Asia 182 291 (109 ) Total Oilseeds Processing 1,524 1,400 124 Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 320 529 (209 ) Bioproducts 742 193 549 Total Corn Processing 1,062 722 340 Agricultural Services Merchandising and Handling 818 583 235 Transportation 104 85 19 Total Agricultural Services 922 668 254 Other Processing 474 403 71 Financial 39 46 (7 ) Total Other 513 449 64 Total Segment Operating Profit 4,021 3,239 782 Corporate (see below) (1,006 ) (654 ) (352 ) Earnings Before Income Taxes $ 3,015 $ 2,585 $ 430 Corporate results are as follows: 2011 2010 Change (In millions) LIFO credit (charge) $ (368 ) $ 42 $ (410 ) Unallocated interest expense net (335 ) (283 ) (52 ) Unallocated corporate costs (326 ) (266 ) (60 ) Charges on early extinguishment of debt (8 ) (75 ) 67 Gains (losses) on interest rate swaps 30 (59 ) 89 Other 1 (13 ) 14 Total Corporate $ (1,006 ) $ (654 ) $ (352 ) Oilseeds Processing operating profit increased 9% to $1.5 billion. Crushing and origination results increased $195 million to $1.0 billion, which include the $71 million gain on the revaluation of the Companys equity interest in Golden Peanut as a result of the acquisition of the remaining 50% interest. Improved North American crushing results, particularly for cotton seed and canola, were partially offset by lower crushing margins in South America and Europe. Margins globally were enhanced by good positioning and by improved origination results. In South America, fertilizer results improved due to higher margins and volumes. Refining, packaging, biodiesel and other results increased $38 million to $329 million due principally to higher packaged oils margins and improved North American and European biodiesel results. Asia results decreased $109 million due principally to decreased earnings from the Companys equity investee, Wilmar. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Corn Processing operating profit increased 47% to $1.1 billion, which includes favorable impacts from ownership positions, which were allocated to sweeteners and starches and bioproducts based on total grind. Sweeteners and starches operating profit decreased $209 million to $320 million due to higher net corn costs partially offset by higher sales volumes. Sales volumes increased due to U.S. export shipments of sweeteners and improved U.S. demand for industrial starches. Bioproducts operating profit improved $549 million primarily due to higher ethanol sales volumes and higher average selling prices leading to increased ethanol and lysine margins. Bioproducts margins were also enhanced by favorable corn ownership positions. Bioproducts results included startup costs related to the Companys new plants of $94 million in the current year compared to $107 million in the prior year. Agricultural Services operating profit increased 38% to $922 million. Merchandising and handling results increased due to higher corn and wheat sales volumes and higher margins. A large 2010 U.S. harvest combined with strong international demand resulted in higher U.S. export shipments. Merchandising and handling results this year include an insurance recovery of $67 million related to property damage and business interruption resulting from an October 2008 explosion at the Companys Destrehan, Louisiana export facility. International merchandising results were weaker in part due to positions impacted by unexpected shifts in crop supply caused by weather conditions and government actions in the Black Sea region. Transportation results increased $19 million to $104 million primarily due to higher barge freight rates and higher barge utilization levels, in part due to higher U.S. export volumes. Other operating profit increased 14% to $513 million. Other processing operating results improved in the Companys wheat milling and cocoa business units due principally to increased equity earnings from the Companys equity investee, Gruma, which include a $78 million gain related to the disposal of Gruma assets. Other financial operating profit decreased $7 million primarily due to higher captive insurance loss provisions principally related to a $67 million loss related to the Companys Destrehan, Louisiana export facility insurance claim. Corporate results decreased $352 million primarily due to the negative impact from changing LIFO inventory valuations and higher unallocated interest expense net. The effects of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory reserves resulted in charges of $368 million compared to credits of $42 million for the prior year. Corporate unallocated interest expense increased $52 million mostly due to lower capitalization of interest costs for construction projects in progress. Partially offsetting the higher LIFO and unallocated interest costs were $30 million of gains on interest rate swaps compared to prior year losses on interest rate swaps of $59 million. In addition, the prior year included charges of $75 million on early debt extinguishment compared to $8 million of similar charges in the current year. 2010 Compared to 2009 As an agricultural commodity based business, the Company is subject to a variety of market factors which affect the Companys operating results. Market expectations throughout most of fiscal 2010 for fewer global crop supply and demand imbalances, coupled with continuing uncertainty about short term demand, led to generally lower and less volatile agricultural commodity market prices and conditions. In addition, the late, extended U.S. harvest reduced profit opportunities. North American oilseed exports and U.S. crushing volumes were enhanced in 2010 by the poor supply of 2009 crop year soybeans in South America. Increased government mandates for the use of biodiesel in South America and Europe resulted in increased biodiesel demand and helped keep overall demand for refined and crude vegetable oil steady in these regions. However, in North America, demand for vegetable oils remained weak in 2010 due to low consumption of oils in the food service and biodiesel industries, in part due to the expiration of the biodiesel blending credit in the U.S. on January 1, 2010. Soybean protein meal demand improved, particularly in Asia. Market prices for corn decreased in 2010 resulting in lower raw material costs for corn processing and decreased average selling prices for sweeteners and starches. Lower energy, fuel and chemical costs per unit positively impacted the Companys manufacturing costs. More favorable ethanol blending economics together with increased ethanol merchandising activity resulted in increased demand, higher ethanol sales volumes, and improved margins. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Earnings before income taxes for 2010 include a credit of $42 million from the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations, compared to a credit of $517 million in 2009. Income taxes decreased $146 million due to a lower effective income tax rate, partially offset by higher pretax earnings. Income taxes for 2009 included a $158 million charge resulting from the restructuring of a holding company in which the Company holds a portion of its equity investment in Wilmar. Analysis of Statements of Earnings Net sales and other operating income by segment for 2010 and 2009 have been reclassified to conform to the current years presentation resulting in reclassified net sales and other operating income at the segment level with no impact to total net sales and other operating income or operating profit. Net sales and other operating income by segment are as follows: 2010 2009 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing and Origination $ 14,487 $ 15,013 $ (526 ) Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel and Other 7,133 8,756 (1,623 ) Asia 190 179 11 Total Oilseeds Processing 21,810 23,948 (2,138 ) Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 3,264 3,690 (426 ) Bioproducts 4,610 3,938 672 Total Corn Processing 7,874 7,628 246 Agricultural Services Merchandising and Handling 26,589 32,007 (5,418 ) Transportation 167 242 (75 ) Total Agricultural Services 26,756 32,249 (5,493 ) Other Processing 5,147 5,272 (125 ) Financial 95 110 (15 ) Total Other 5,242 5,382 (140 ) Total $ 61,682 $ 69,207 $ (7,525 ) Net sales and other operating income decreased 11% to $61.7 billion due principally to lower average selling prices in 2010 in line with year over year declines in underlying commodity costs. Oilseeds Processing sales decreased 9% to $21.8 billion, due principally to lower average selling prices for soybeans, protein meal, refined oil, and biodiesel partially offset by increased sales volumes of soybeans and fertilizer. Corn Processing sales increased 3% to $7.9 billion primarily as a result of increased sales volumes of ethanol and lysine partially offset by lower average selling prices of ethanol, sweeteners, and starches. Agricultural Services sales decreased 17% to $26.8 billion, due to lower average selling prices, in line with year over year declines in underlying commodity prices and lower sales volumes. Other sales decreased 3% to $5.2 billion, primarily due to lower average selling prices of wheat flour partially offset by increased wheat flour sales volumes and higher average selling prices and sales volumes for cocoa products. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Cost of products sold decreased 11% to $57.8 billion, due principally to decreased agricultural commodity costs including the impact of changes in LIFO inventory valuations which reduced cost of products sold by $42 million in 2010 compared to $517 million in 2009. Manufacturing expenses decreased 1% or $60 million, primarily due to lower energy, chemical and fuel costs partially offset by higher employee related costs and a $124 million increase in depreciation and amortization expense. In 2010, manufacturing expenses included additional costs associated with the Companys new greenfield plants. Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased 1% to $1.4 billion, due principally to decreased provisions for doubtful accounts partially offset by increased expenses for legal, professional, and commercial services. Equity earnings of unconsolidated affiliates increased $416 million to $561 million primarily due to the absence of a non cash charge of $275 million in 2009 related to currency derivative losses of the Companys equity investee, Gruma S.A.B. de C.V. Interest income declined $55 million to $126 million primarily due to lower average interest rates. Interest expense declined $47 million to $422 million primarily due to lower average interest rates. Other expense net increased $91 million due to pre tax charges of $75 million related to the early extinguishment of debt and $59 million for unrealized losses on interest rate swaps (for more information on the charges related to the early extinguishment of debt, see Note 8 in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data). Income taxes decreased $146 million due to a lower effective income tax rate partially offset by higher pretax earnings. The Companys effective income tax rate during 2010 was 25.8%. In 2009, the effective income tax rate was 32.5% which included $158 million of income tax charges related to the partial restructuring of the holding company structure through which the Company holds a portion of its equity investment in Wilmar. Excluding these Wilmar charges, the Companys effective income tax rate for 2009 was 26.2%. For more information concerning Wilmar tax matters see Note 13 in Item 8. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Operating profit by segment is as follows: 2010 2009 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing and Origination $ 818 $ 767 $ 51 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel and Other 291 265 26 Asia 291 248 43 Total Oilseeds Processing 1,400 1,280 120 Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 529 500 29 Bioproducts 193 (315 ) 508 Total Corn Processing 722 185 537 Agricultural Services Merchandising and Handling 583 832 (249 ) Transportation 85 162 (77 ) Total Agricultural Services 668 994 (326 ) Other Processing 403 51 352 Financial 46 (57 ) 103 Total Other 449 (6 ) 455 Total Segment Operating Profit 3,239 2,453 786 Corporate (see below) (654 ) 47 (701 ) Earnings Before Income Taxes $ 2,585 $ 2,500 $ 85 Corporate results are as follows: 2010 2009 Change (In millions) LIFO credit $ 42 $ 517 $ (475 ) Unallocated interest expense net (283 ) (192 ) (91 ) Unallocated corporate costs (266 ) (252 ) (14 ) Charges on early extinguishment of debt (75 ) (75 ) Unrealized losses on interest rate swaps (59 ) (59 ) Other (13 ) (26 ) 13 Total Corporate $ (654 ) $ 47 $ (701 ) Oilseeds Processing operating profit increased 9% to $1.4 billion. Crushing and origination results increased $51 million due to higher North American soybean crushing margins and favorable soft seed commodity positioning, partially offset by lower soybean crushing margins in Europe and South America. Refining, packaging, biodiesel and other operating profit increased $26 million due primarily to higher South American biodiesel results and improved margins in Europe. Oilseeds processing results in Asia increased $43 million to $291 million due principally to improved equity earnings of Wilmar. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Corn Processing operating profit increased $537 million to $722 million. Bioproducts operating profit increased $508 million due to improved ethanol and lysine sales volumes and improved ethanol margins resulting from lower net corn costs and decreased manufacturing costs. Ethanol sales volumes increased due to favorable gasoline blending economics and increased merchandising activity. Sweeteners and starches operating profit increased $29 million due to lower net corn and manufacturing costs due principally to lower energy and chemical prices. These lower manufacturing costs were partially offset by lower average selling prices. Agricultural Services operating profit decreased $326 million to $668 million. Merchandising and handling results decreased $249 million. Enhanced volume and margin opportunities created by 2009s volatile commodity markets and tight credit markets did not recur. Volumes and margins in 2010 benefited from strong demand for U.S. soybean exports following the short South American 2009 crop. Transportation results decreased $77 million due to lower barge freight rates and decreased barge utilization levels resulting from weaker U.S. economic conditions and the late, extended North American harvest. Other operating profit increased $455 million to $449 million. Other processing operating profit increased $352 million due to improved equity earnings from the Companys investment in Gruma, improved wheat milling margins, and improved cocoa processing results. Financial operating profit increased $103 million due primarily to the absence of losses experienced in 2009 from managed fund investments and captive insurance operations. Corporate results decreased $701 million. The effects of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations resulted in a credit of $42 million for the year ended June 30, 2010, compared to a credit of $517 million for the year ended June 30, 2009. Unallocated interest expense net increased $91 million reflecting a reduction in corporate interest income caused by lower short term interest rates and lower working capital requirements of the operating segments. In March 2010, the Company repurchased $500 million of long term debt which generated a $75 million pretax charge on early extinguishment of debt. In connection with a debt remarketing planned for 2011, the Company entered into interest rate swaps to fix the interest rate on a portion of the planned remarketing which resulted in $59 million of unrealized losses on interest rate swaps. Liquidity and Capital Resources A Company objective is to have sufficient liquidity, balance sheet strength, and financial flexibility to fund the operating and capital requirements of a capital intensive agricultural commodity based business. The primary source of funds to finance the Companys operations and capital expenditures is cash generated by operations. In addition, the Company maintains a commercial paper borrowing facility and has access to equity and debt capital from public and private sources in both U.S. and international markets. At June 30, 2011, the Company had $1.4 billion of cash, cash equivalents, and short term marketable securities and a current ratio, defined as current assets divided by current liabilities, of 2.1 to 1. Included in working capital is $7.1 billion of readily marketable commodity inventories. Cash used in operating activities was $2.3 billion for the year compared to cash provided by operating activities of $2.7 billion last year. Working capital increased in the current year due principally to higher agricultural commodity market prices. Cash used in investing activities of $1.7 billion, principally for capital expenditures, businesses acquired, and investments, was in line with last year. Cash provided by financing activities was $3.6 billion for the year compared to cash used in financing activities of $1.0 billion last year. Net borrowings increased primarily to fund higher working capital. Short term borrowings increased due principally to higher commercial paper borrowings, and long term borrowings increased primarily as a result of the issuance of $1.5 billion of 18 month floating rate notes in February 2011. In addition, the Company issued common stock and received $1.75 billion under the forward stock purchase component of the Companys Equity Units (see Note 8 in Item 8). At June 30, 2011, the Companys capital resources included net worth of $18.8 billion and lines of credit totaling $6.9 billion, of which $5.7 billion was unused. The Companys ratio of long term debt to total capital (the sum of the Companys long term debt and shareholders equity) was 30% at June 30, 2011 and 32% at June 30, 2010. This ratio is a measure of the Companys long term indebtedness and is an indicator of financial flexibility. Of the Companys total lines of credit, $4.6 billion support a commercial paper borrowing facility, against which there were $620 million of commercial paper outstanding at June 30, 2011. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) The Company has outstanding $1.15 billion principal amount of convertible senior notes. As of June 30, 2011, none of the conditions permitting conversion of these notes had been satisfied. The Company has purchased call options and warrants intended to reduce the potential shareholder dilution upon future conversion of the notes. As of June 30, 2011, the market price of the Companys common stock was not greater than the exercise price of the purchased call options or warrants related to the convertible senior notes. On July 1, 2011, the Company entered into a 364 day accounts receivable securitization facility. The facility provides the Company with up to $1.0 billion in liquidity. Under the facility, the Companys U.S. originated trade accounts receivable are sold to a wholly owned bankruptcy remote entity which then sells an undivided interest in the receivable as a collateral for any borrowings under the facility. Any borrowings under the facility will be recorded as secured borrowings. As of August 24, 2011, the Company had not used the facility. This facility expands the Companys access to liquidity through efficient use of its balance sheet assets. The Companys credit facilities and certain debentures require the Company to comply with specified financial and non financial covenants including maintenance of minimum tangible net worth as well as limitations related to incurring liens, secured debt, and certain other financing arrangements. The Company is in compliance with these covenants as of June 30, 2011. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements In the normal course of business, the Company enters into contracts and commitments which obligate the Company to make payments in the future. The following table sets forth the Companys significant future obligations by time period. Purchases include commodity based contracts entered into in the normal course of business, which are further described in Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, energy related purchase contracts entered into in the normal course of business, and other purchase obligations related to the Companys normal business activities. The following table does not include unrecognized income tax benefits of $79 million as of June 30, 2011 as the Company is unable to reasonably estimate the timing of settlement. Where applicable, information included in the Companys consolidated financial statements and notes is cross referenced in this table. Payments Due by Period Contractual Item 8 Note Less than 1 3 3 5 More than Obligations Reference Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years (In millions) Purchases Inventories $ 17,457 $ 16,593 $ 807 $ 43 $ 14 Energy 456 340 76 22 18 Other 398 168 186 35 9 Total purchases 18,311 17,101 1,069 100 41 Short term debt 1,875 1,875 Long term debt Note 8 8,444 178 2,875 46 5,345 Estimated interest payments 7,177 384 690 646 5,457 Operating leases Note 14 1,163 233 334 225 371 Estimated pension and other postretirement plan contributions (1) Note 15 167 55 19 21 72 Total $ 37,137 $ 19,826 $ 4,987 $ 1,038 $ 11,286 (1) Includes pension contributions of $47 million for fiscal 2012. The Company is unable to estimate the amount of pension contributions beyond fiscal year 2012. For more information concerning the Companys pension and other postretirement plans, see Note 15 in Item 8. At June 30, 2011, the Company estimates it will spend approximately $2.8 billion through calendar year 2014 to complete currently approved capital projects which are not included in the table above. The Company also has outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds of $620 million at June 30, 2011. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) In addition, the Company has entered into agreements, primarily debt guarantee agreements related to equity method investees, which could obligate the Company to make future payments. The Companys liability under these agreements arises only if the primary entity fails to perform its contractual obligation. The Company has collateral for a portion of these contingent obligations. At June 30, 2011, these contingent obligations totaled approximately $121 million. Amounts outstanding for the primary entity under these contingent obligations were $69 million at June 30, 2011. Critical Accounting Policies The process of preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the carrying values of the Companys assets and liabilities as well as the recognition of revenues and expenses. These estimates and judgments are based on the Companys historical experience and managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Certain of the Companys accounting policies are considered critical, as these policies are important to the depiction of the Companys financial statements and require significant or complex judgment by management. Management has discussed with the Companys Audit Committee the development, selection, disclosure, and application of these critical accounting policies. Following are the accounting policies management considers critical to the Companys financial statements. Inventories and Derivatives Certain of the Companys merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, forward fixed price purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts are valued at estimated market values. These merchandisable agricultural commodities are freely traded, have quoted market prices, and may be sold without significant additional processing. Management estimates market value based on exchange quoted prices, adjusted for differences in local markets. Changes in the market values of these inventories and contracts are recognized in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. If management used different methods or factors to estimate market value, amounts reported as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. Additionally, if market conditions change subsequent to year end, amounts reported in future periods as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. The Company, from time to time, uses derivative contracts designated as cash flow hedges to fix the purchase price of anticipated volumes of commodities to be purchased and processed in a future month, to fix the purchase price of the Companys anticipated natural gas requirements for certain production facilities, and to fix the sales price of anticipated volumes of ethanol. The change in the market value of such derivative contracts has historically been, and is expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold and net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. If it is determined that the derivative instruments used are no longer effective at offsetting changes in the price of the hedged item, then the changes in the market value of these exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts would be recorded in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. See Note 4 in Item 8 for additional information. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Employee Benefit Plans The Company provides substantially all U.S. employees and employees at certain international subsidiaries with pension benefits. Eligible U.S. employees with five or more years of service prior to January 1, 2009 participate in a defined benefit pension plan. Eligible U.S. employees hired on or after January 1, 2009 (and eligible salaried employees with less than five years of service prior to January 1, 2009) participate in a cash balance pension formula. The Company provides eligible U.S. employees who retire under qualifying conditions with access to postretirement health care, at full cost to the retiree (certain employees are grandfathered into subsidized coverage). In order to measure the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans, management makes several estimates and assumptions, including interest rates used to discount certain liabilities, rates of return on assets set aside to fund these plans, rates of compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and anticipated future health care costs. These estimates and assumptions are based on the Companys historical experience combined with managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Management also uses third party actuaries to assist in measuring the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans. If management used different estimates and assumptions regarding these plans, the funded status of the plans could vary significantly, and the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. See Note 15 in Item 8 for additional information. Income Taxes The Company frequently faces challenges from U.S. and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company records reserves for estimates of potential additional tax owed by the Company. As an example, a subsidiary of the Company received tax assessments in the amount of $665 million consisting of tax, penalty, and interest (adjusted for interest and variation in currency exchange rates) from the Brazilian Federal Revenue Service challenging the deductibility of commodity hedging losses incurred by the Company for tax years 2004, 2006 and 2007. The Company evaluated its tax position regarding these hedging transactions and concluded, based in part upon advice from Brazilian legal counsel, that it was appropriate to recognize the tax benefits of these deductions (See Note 13 in Item 8 for additional information). Deferred tax assets represent items to be used as tax deductions or credits in future tax returns, and the related tax benefit has already been recognized in the Companys income statement. The realization of the Companys deferred tax assets is dependent upon future taxable income in specific tax jurisdictions, the timing and amount of which are uncertain. The Company evaluates all available positive and negative evidence including estimated future reversals of existing temporary differences, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies, and recent financial results. Valuation allowances related to these deferred tax assets have been established to the extent the realization of the tax benefit is not likely. To the extent the Company were to favorably resolve matters for which accruals have been established or be required to pay amounts in excess of the aforementioned reserves, the Companys effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be impacted. Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and the Companys share of the undistributed earnings of affiliated corporate joint venture companies accounted for on the equity method amounting to approximately $8.2 billion at June 30, 2011, are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned factors may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and cash flows of the Companys assets in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its factories. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment, technology, and companies related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. Assets are written down after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these assets, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Goodwill and other intangible assets The Company accounts for its goodwill and other intangible assets in accordance with ASC Topic 350, Intangibles Goodwill and Other. Under this standard, goodwill and intangible assets deemed to have indefinite lives are not amortized but are subject to annual impairment tests. The Company evaluates goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year or whenever there are indicators that the carrying value of the assets may not be fully recoverable. Definite lived intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its impairment tests, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Valuation of Marketable Securities and Investments in Affiliates The Company classifies the majority of its marketable securities as available for sale and carries these securities at fair value. The Company applies the equity method for investments over which the Company has the ability to exercise significant influence. These investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings and are adjusted, where appropriate, for amortizable basis differences between the investment balance and the underlying net assets of the investee. For publicly traded securities, the fair value of the Companys investments is readily available based on quoted market prices. For non publicly traded securities, managements assessment of fair value is based on valuation methodologies including discounted cash flows and estimates of sales proceeds. In the event of a decline in fair value of an investment below carrying value, management is required to determine if the decline in fair value is other than temporary. In evaluating the nature of a decline in the fair value of an investment, management considers the market conditions, trends of earnings, discounted cash flows, trading volumes, and other key measures of the investment as well as the Companys ability and intent to hold the investment. When such a decline in value is deemed to be other than temporary, an impairment loss is recognized in the current period operating results to the extent of the decline. See Notes 5 and 6 in Item 8 for information regarding the Companys marketable securities and investments in affiliates. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these marketable securities, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in: commodity market prices as they relate to the Companys net commodity position, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and prices of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to factors such as changes in weather conditions, disease, plantings, government programs and policies, competition, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. The Company enters into derivative and non derivative contracts with the primary objective of managing the Companys exposure to adverse price movements in the agricultural commodities used for, and produced in, our business operations. The Company will also use exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the volatility of the relationship between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contracts defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company, from time to time, enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold or net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. The Companys commodity position consists of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, related purchase and sales contracts, energy and freight contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts including contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements, net of sales. The fair value of the Companys commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing all of the commodity positions at quoted market prices for the period, where available, or utilizing a close proxy. The Company has established metrics to monitor the amount of market risk exposure, which consist of volumetric limits, and value at risk (VaR) limits. VaR measures the potential loss, at a 95% confidence level, that could be incurred over a one year period. Volumetric limits are monitored daily and VaR calculations and sensitivity analysis are monitored weekly. In addition to measuring the hypothetical loss resulting from an adverse two standard deviation move in market prices (assuming no correlations) over a one year period using VaR, sensitivity analysis is performed measuring the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in market prices. The highest, lowest, and average weekly position for each of the last two years together with the market risk from a hypothetical 10% adverse price change is as follows: 2011 2010 Long/(Short) Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest position $ 2,388 $ 239 $ 738 $ 74 Lowest position 368 37 (183 ) (18 ) Average position 1,644 164 216 22 The change in fair value of the average position for 2011 compared to 2010 was principally the result of changes in average quantities underlying the weekly commodity position. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) Currencies The Company conducts its business in over 75 countries. For the majority of the Companys subsidiaries located outside the United States, the local currency is the functional currency. To reduce the risks associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, the Company enters into currency exchange contracts to minimize its foreign currency position related to transactions denominated primarily in Euro, British pound, Canadian dollar, and Brazilian real currencies. These currencies represent the major functional or local currencies in which recurring business transactions occur. The Company does not use currency exchange contracts as hedges against amounts permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The currency exchange contracts used are forward contracts, swaps with banks, exchange traded futures contracts, and over the counter options. The changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $8.2 billion at June 30, 2011, and $6.4 billion at June 30, 2010. This increase is due to the appreciation of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar and an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The potential loss in fair value, which would principally be recognized in Other Comprehensive Income, resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $837 million and $639 million for 2011 and 2010, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 50 basis points decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2011 2010 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 9,108 $ 7,700 Excess of fair value over carrying value 842 870 Market risk 333 289 The increase in fair value of long term debt in 2011 resulted principally from the issuance of $1.5 billion of 18 month floating rate notes in February 2011. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Operating profit by segment is as follows: 2011 2010 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing and Origination $ 1,013 $ 818 $ 195 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel and Other 329 291 38 Asia 182 291 (109 ) Total Oilseeds Processing 1,524 1,400 124 Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 320 529 (209 ) Bioproducts 742 193 549 Total Corn Processing 1,062 722 340 Agricultural Services Merchandising and Handling 818 583 235 Transportation 104 85 19 Total Agricultural Services 922 668 254 Other Processing 474 403 71 Financial 39 46 (7 ) Total Other 513 449 64 Total Segment Operating Profit 4,021 3,239 782 Corporate (see below) (1,006 ) (654 ) (352 ) Earnings Before Income Taxes $ 3,015 $ 2,585 $ 430 Corporate results are as follows: 2011 2010 Change (In millions) LIFO credit (charge) $ (368 ) $ 42 $ (410 ) Unallocated interest expense net (335 ) (283 ) (52 ) Unallocated corporate costs (326 ) (266 ) (60 ) Charges on early extinguishment of debt (8 ) (75 ) 67 Gains (losses) on interest rate swaps 30 (59 ) 89 Other 1 (13 ) 14 Total Corporate $ (1,006 ) $ (654 ) $ (352 ) Oilseeds Processing operating profit increased 9% to $1.5 billion. Crushing and origination results increased $195 million to $1.0 billion, which include the $71 million gain on the revaluation of the Companys equity interest in Golden Peanut as a result of the acquisition of the remaining 50% interest. Improved North American crushing results, particularly for cotton seed and canola, were partially offset by lower crushing margins in South America and Europe. Margins globally were enhanced by good positioning and by improved origination results. In South America, fertilizer results improved due to higher margins and volumes. Refining, packaging, biodiesel and other results increased $38 million to $329 million due principally to higher packaged oils margins and improved North American and European biodiesel results. Asia results decreased $109 million due principally to decreased earnings from the Companys equity investee, Wilmar. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Corn Processing operating profit increased 47% to $1.1 billion, which includes favorable impacts from ownership positions, which were allocated to sweeteners and starches and bioproducts based on total grind. Sweeteners and starches operating profit decreased $209 million to $320 million due to higher net corn costs partially offset by higher sales volumes. Sales volumes increased due to U.S. export shipments of sweeteners and improved U.S. demand for industrial starches. Bioproducts operating profit improved $549 million primarily due to higher ethanol sales volumes and higher average selling prices leading to increased ethanol and lysine margins. Bioproducts margins were also enhanced by favorable corn ownership positions. Bioproducts results included startup costs related to the Companys new plants of $94 million in the current year compared to $107 million in the prior year. Agricultural Services operating profit increased 38% to $922 million. Merchandising and handling results increased due to higher corn and wheat sales volumes and higher margins. A large 2010 U.S. harvest combined with strong international demand resulted in higher U.S. export shipments. Merchandising and handling results this year include an insurance recovery of $67 million related to property damage and business interruption resulting from an October 2008 explosion at the Companys Destrehan, Louisiana export facility. International merchandising results were weaker in part due to positions impacted by unexpected shifts in crop supply caused by weather conditions and government actions in the Black Sea region. Transportation results increased $19 million to $104 million primarily due to higher barge freight rates and higher barge utilization levels, in part due to higher U.S. export volumes. Other operating profit increased 14% to $513 million. Other processing operating results improved in the Companys wheat milling and cocoa business units due principally to increased equity earnings from the Companys equity investee, Gruma, which include a $78 million gain related to the disposal of Gruma assets. Other financial operating profit decreased $7 million primarily due to higher captive insurance loss provisions principally related to a $67 million loss related to the Companys Destrehan, Louisiana export facility insurance claim. Corporate results decreased $352 million primarily due to the negative impact from changing LIFO inventory valuations and higher unallocated interest expense net. The effects of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory reserves resulted in charges of $368 million compared to credits of $42 million for the prior year. Corporate unallocated interest expense increased $52 million mostly due to lower capitalization of interest costs for construction projects in progress. Partially offsetting the higher LIFO and unallocated interest costs were $30 million of gains on interest rate swaps compared to prior year losses on interest rate swaps of $59 million. In addition, the prior year included charges of $75 million on early debt extinguishment compared to $8 million of similar charges in the current year. 2010 Compared to 2009 As an agricultural commodity based business, the Company is subject to a variety of market factors which affect the Companys operating results. Market expectations throughout most of fiscal 2010 for fewer global crop supply and demand imbalances, coupled with continuing uncertainty about short term demand, led to generally lower and less volatile agricultural commodity market prices and conditions. In addition, the late, extended U.S. harvest reduced profit opportunities. North American oilseed exports and U.S. crushing volumes were enhanced in 2010 by the poor supply of 2009 crop year soybeans in South America. Increased government mandates for the use of biodiesel in South America and Europe resulted in increased biodiesel demand and helped keep overall demand for refined and crude vegetable oil steady in these regions. However, in North America, demand for vegetable oils remained weak in 2010 due to low consumption of oils in the food service and biodiesel industries, in part due to the expiration of the biodiesel blending credit in the U.S. on January 1, 2010. Soybean protein meal demand improved, particularly in Asia. Market prices for corn decreased in 2010 resulting in lower raw material costs for corn processing and decreased average selling prices for sweeteners and starches. Lower energy, fuel and chemical costs per unit positively impacted the Companys manufacturing costs. More favorable ethanol blending economics together with increased ethanol merchandising activity resulted in increased demand, higher ethanol sales volumes, and improved margins. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Earnings before income taxes for 2010 include a credit of $42 million from the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations, compared to a credit of $517 million in 2009. Income taxes decreased $146 million due to a lower effective income tax rate, partially offset by higher pretax earnings. Income taxes for 2009 included a $158 million charge resulting from the restructuring of a holding company in which the Company holds a portion of its equity investment in Wilmar. Analysis of Statements of Earnings Net sales and other operating income by segment for 2010 and 2009 have been reclassified to conform to the current years presentation resulting in reclassified net sales and other operating income at the segment level with no impact to total net sales and other operating income or operating profit. Net sales and other operating income by segment are as follows: 2010 2009 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing and Origination $ 14,487 $ 15,013 $ (526 ) Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel and Other 7,133 8,756 (1,623 ) Asia 190 179 11 Total Oilseeds Processing 21,810 23,948 (2,138 ) Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 3,264 3,690 (426 ) Bioproducts 4,610 3,938 672 Total Corn Processing 7,874 7,628 246 Agricultural Services Merchandising and Handling 26,589 32,007 (5,418 ) Transportation 167 242 (75 ) Total Agricultural Services 26,756 32,249 (5,493 ) Other Processing 5,147 5,272 (125 ) Financial 95 110 (15 ) Total Other 5,242 5,382 (140 ) Total $ 61,682 $ 69,207 $ (7,525 ) Net sales and other operating income decreased 11% to $61.7 billion due principally to lower average selling prices in 2010 in line with year over year declines in underlying commodity costs. Oilseeds Processing sales decreased 9% to $21.8 billion, due principally to lower average selling prices for soybeans, protein meal, refined oil, and biodiesel partially offset by increased sales volumes of soybeans and fertilizer. Corn Processing sales increased 3% to $7.9 billion primarily as a result of increased sales volumes of ethanol and lysine partially offset by lower average selling prices of ethanol, sweeteners, and starches. Agricultural Services sales decreased 17% to $26.8 billion, due to lower average selling prices, in line with year over year declines in underlying commodity prices and lower sales volumes. Other sales decreased 3% to $5.2 billion, primarily due to lower average selling prices of wheat flour partially offset by increased wheat flour sales volumes and higher average selling prices and sales volumes for cocoa products. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Cost of products sold decreased 11% to $57.8 billion, due principally to decreased agricultural commodity costs including the impact of changes in LIFO inventory valuations which reduced cost of products sold by $42 million in 2010 compared to $517 million in 2009. Manufacturing expenses decreased 1% or $60 million, primarily due to lower energy, chemical and fuel costs partially offset by higher employee related costs and a $124 million increase in depreciation and amortization expense. In 2010, manufacturing expenses included additional costs associated with the Companys new greenfield plants. Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased 1% to $1.4 billion, due principally to decreased provisions for doubtful accounts partially offset by increased expenses for legal, professional, and commercial services. Equity earnings of unconsolidated affiliates increased $416 million to $561 million primarily due to the absence of a non cash charge of $275 million in 2009 related to currency derivative losses of the Companys equity investee, Gruma S.A.B. de C.V. Interest income declined $55 million to $126 million primarily due to lower average interest rates. Interest expense declined $47 million to $422 million primarily due to lower average interest rates. Other expense net increased $91 million due to pre tax charges of $75 million related to the early extinguishment of debt and $59 million for unrealized losses on interest rate swaps (for more information on the charges related to the early extinguishment of debt, see Note 8 in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data). Income taxes decreased $146 million due to a lower effective income tax rate partially offset by higher pretax earnings. The Companys effective income tax rate during 2010 was 25.8%. In 2009, the effective income tax rate was 32.5% which included $158 million of income tax charges related to the partial restructuring of the holding company structure through which the Company holds a portion of its equity investment in Wilmar. Excluding these Wilmar charges, the Companys effective income tax rate for 2009 was 26.2%. For more information concerning Wilmar tax matters see Note 13 in Item 8. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Operating profit by segment is as follows: 2010 2009 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing and Origination $ 818 $ 767 $ 51 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel and Other 291 265 26 Asia 291 248 43 Total Oilseeds Processing 1,400 1,280 120 Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 529 500 29 Bioproducts 193 (315 ) 508 Total Corn Processing 722 185 537 Agricultural Services Merchandising and Handling 583 832 (249 ) Transportation 85 162 (77 ) Total Agricultural Services 668 994 (326 ) Other Processing 403 51 352 Financial 46 (57 ) 103 Total Other 449 (6 ) 455 Total Segment Operating Profit 3,239 2,453 786 Corporate (see below) (654 ) 47 (701 ) Earnings Before Income Taxes $ 2,585 $ 2,500 $ 85 Corporate results are as follows: 2010 2009 Change (In millions) LIFO credit $ 42 $ 517 $ (475 ) Unallocated interest expense net (283 ) (192 ) (91 ) Unallocated corporate costs (266 ) (252 ) (14 ) Charges on early extinguishment of debt (75 ) (75 ) Unrealized losses on interest rate swaps (59 ) (59 ) Other (13 ) (26 ) 13 Total Corporate $ (654 ) $ 47 $ (701 ) Oilseeds Processing operating profit increased 9% to $1.4 billion. Crushing and origination results increased $51 million due to higher North American soybean crushing margins and favorable soft seed commodity positioning, partially offset by lower soybean crushing margins in Europe and South America. Refining, packaging, biodiesel and other operating profit increased $26 million due primarily to higher South American biodiesel results and improved margins in Europe. Oilseeds processing results in Asia increased $43 million to $291 million due principally to improved equity earnings of Wilmar. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Corn Processing operating profit increased $537 million to $722 million. Bioproducts operating profit increased $508 million due to improved ethanol and lysine sales volumes and improved ethanol margins resulting from lower net corn costs and decreased manufacturing costs. Ethanol sales volumes increased due to favorable gasoline blending economics and increased merchandising activity. Sweeteners and starches operating profit increased $29 million due to lower net corn and manufacturing costs due principally to lower energy and chemical prices. These lower manufacturing costs were partially offset by lower average selling prices. Agricultural Services operating profit decreased $326 million to $668 million. Merchandising and handling results decreased $249 million. Enhanced volume and margin opportunities created by 2009s volatile commodity markets and tight credit markets did not recur. Volumes and margins in 2010 benefited from strong demand for U.S. soybean exports following the short South American 2009 crop. Transportation results decreased $77 million due to lower barge freight rates and decreased barge utilization levels resulting from weaker U.S. economic conditions and the late, extended North American harvest. Other operating profit increased $455 million to $449 million. Other processing operating profit increased $352 million due to improved equity earnings from the Companys investment in Gruma, improved wheat milling margins, and improved cocoa processing results. Financial operating profit increased $103 million due primarily to the absence of losses experienced in 2009 from managed fund investments and captive insurance operations. Corporate results decreased $701 million. The effects of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations resulted in a credit of $42 million for the year ended June 30, 2010, compared to a credit of $517 million for the year ended June 30, 2009. Unallocated interest expense net increased $91 million reflecting a reduction in corporate interest income caused by lower short term interest rates and lower working capital requirements of the operating segments. In March 2010, the Company repurchased $500 million of long term debt which generated a $75 million pretax charge on early extinguishment of debt. In connection with a debt remarketing planned for 2011, the Company entered into interest rate swaps to fix the interest rate on a portion of the planned remarketing which resulted in $59 million of unrealized losses on interest rate swaps. Liquidity and Capital Resources A Company objective is to have sufficient liquidity, balance sheet strength, and financial flexibility to fund the operating and capital requirements of a capital intensive agricultural commodity based business. The primary source of funds to finance the Companys operations and capital expenditures is cash generated by operations. In addition, the Company maintains a commercial paper borrowing facility and has access to equity and debt capital from public and private sources in both U.S. and international markets. At June 30, 2011, the Company had $1.4 billion of cash, cash equivalents, and short term marketable securities and a current ratio, defined as current assets divided by current liabilities, of 2.1 to 1. Included in working capital is $7.1 billion of readily marketable commodity inventories. Cash used in operating activities was $2.3 billion for the year compared to cash provided by operating activities of $2.7 billion last year. Working capital increased in the current year due principally to higher agricultural commodity market prices. Cash used in investing activities of $1.7 billion, principally for capital expenditures, businesses acquired, and investments, was in line with last year. Cash provided by financing activities was $3.6 billion for the year compared to cash used in financing activities of $1.0 billion last year. Net borrowings increased primarily to fund higher working capital. Short term borrowings increased due principally to higher commercial paper borrowings, and long term borrowings increased primarily as a result of the issuance of $1.5 billion of 18 month floating rate notes in February 2011. In addition, the Company issued common stock and received $1.75 billion under the forward stock purchase component of the Companys Equity Units (see Note 8 in Item 8). At June 30, 2011, the Companys capital resources included net worth of $18.8 billion and lines of credit totaling $6.9 billion, of which $5.7 billion was unused. The Companys ratio of long term debt to total capital (the sum of the Companys long term debt and shareholders equity) was 30% at June 30, 2011 and 32% at June 30, 2010. This ratio is a measure of the Companys long term indebtedness and is an indicator of financial flexibility. Of the Companys total lines of credit, $4.6 billion support a commercial paper borrowing facility, against which there were $620 million of commercial paper outstanding at June 30, 2011. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) The Company has outstanding $1.15 billion principal amount of convertible senior notes. As of June 30, 2011, none of the conditions permitting conversion of these notes had been satisfied. The Company has purchased call options and warrants intended to reduce the potential shareholder dilution upon future conversion of the notes. As of June 30, 2011, the market price of the Companys common stock was not greater than the exercise price of the purchased call options or warrants related to the convertible senior notes. On July 1, 2011, the Company entered into a 364 day accounts receivable securitization facility. The facility provides the Company with up to $1.0 billion in liquidity. Under the facility, the Companys U.S. originated trade accounts receivable are sold to a wholly owned bankruptcy remote entity which then sells an undivided interest in the receivable as a collateral for any borrowings under the facility. Any borrowings under the facility will be recorded as secured borrowings. As of August 24, 2011, the Company had not used the facility. This facility expands the Companys access to liquidity through efficient use of its balance sheet assets. The Companys credit facilities and certain debentures require the Company to comply with specified financial and non financial covenants including maintenance of minimum tangible net worth as well as limitations related to incurring liens, secured debt, and certain other financing arrangements. The Company is in compliance with these covenants as of June 30, 2011. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements In the normal course of business, the Company enters into contracts and commitments which obligate the Company to make payments in the future. The following table sets forth the Companys significant future obligations by time period. Purchases include commodity based contracts entered into in the normal course of business, which are further described in Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, energy related purchase contracts entered into in the normal course of business, and other purchase obligations related to the Companys normal business activities. The following table does not include unrecognized income tax benefits of $79 million as of June 30, 2011 as the Company is unable to reasonably estimate the timing of settlement. Where applicable, information included in the Companys consolidated financial statements and notes is cross referenced in this table. Payments Due by Period Contractual Item 8 Note Less than 1 3 3 5 More than Obligations Reference Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years (In millions) Purchases Inventories $ 17,457 $ 16,593 $ 807 $ 43 $ 14 Energy 456 340 76 22 18 Other 398 168 186 35 9 Total purchases 18,311 17,101 1,069 100 41 Short term debt 1,875 1,875 Long term debt Note 8 8,444 178 2,875 46 5,345 Estimated interest payments 7,177 384 690 646 5,457 Operating leases Note 14 1,163 233 334 225 371 Estimated pension and other postretirement plan contributions (1) Note 15 167 55 19 21 72 Total $ 37,137 $ 19,826 $ 4,987 $ 1,038 $ 11,286 (1) Includes pension contributions of $47 million for fiscal 2012. The Company is unable to estimate the amount of pension contributions beyond fiscal year 2012. For more information concerning the Companys pension and other postretirement plans, see Note 15 in Item 8. At June 30, 2011, the Company estimates it will spend approximately $2.8 billion through calendar year 2014 to complete currently approved capital projects which are not included in the table above. The Company also has outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds of $620 million at June 30, 2011. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) In addition, the Company has entered into agreements, primarily debt guarantee agreements related to equity method investees, which could obligate the Company to make future payments. The Companys liability under these agreements arises only if the primary entity fails to perform its contractual obligation. The Company has collateral for a portion of these contingent obligations. At June 30, 2011, these contingent obligations totaled approximately $121 million. Amounts outstanding for the primary entity under these contingent obligations were $69 million at June 30, 2011. Critical Accounting Policies The process of preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the carrying values of the Companys assets and liabilities as well as the recognition of revenues and expenses. These estimates and judgments are based on the Companys historical experience and managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Certain of the Companys accounting policies are considered critical, as these policies are important to the depiction of the Companys financial statements and require significant or complex judgment by management. Management has discussed with the Companys Audit Committee the development, selection, disclosure, and application of these critical accounting policies. Following are the accounting policies management considers critical to the Companys financial statements. Inventories and Derivatives Certain of the Companys merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, forward fixed price purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts are valued at estimated market values. These merchandisable agricultural commodities are freely traded, have quoted market prices, and may be sold without significant additional processing. Management estimates market value based on exchange quoted prices, adjusted for differences in local markets. Changes in the market values of these inventories and contracts are recognized in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. If management used different methods or factors to estimate market value, amounts reported as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. Additionally, if market conditions change subsequent to year end, amounts reported in future periods as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. The Company, from time to time, uses derivative contracts designated as cash flow hedges to fix the purchase price of anticipated volumes of commodities to be purchased and processed in a future month, to fix the purchase price of the Companys anticipated natural gas requirements for certain production facilities, and to fix the sales price of anticipated volumes of ethanol. The change in the market value of such derivative contracts has historically been, and is expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold and net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. If it is determined that the derivative instruments used are no longer effective at offsetting changes in the price of the hedged item, then the changes in the market value of these exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts would be recorded in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. See Note 4 in Item 8 for additional information. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Employee Benefit Plans The Company provides substantially all U.S. employees and employees at certain international subsidiaries with pension benefits. Eligible U.S. employees with five or more years of service prior to January 1, 2009 participate in a defined benefit pension plan. Eligible U.S. employees hired on or after January 1, 2009 (and eligible salaried employees with less than five years of service prior to January 1, 2009) participate in a cash balance pension formula. The Company provides eligible U.S. employees who retire under qualifying conditions with access to postretirement health care, at full cost to the retiree (certain employees are grandfathered into subsidized coverage). In order to measure the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans, management makes several estimates and assumptions, including interest rates used to discount certain liabilities, rates of return on assets set aside to fund these plans, rates of compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and anticipated future health care costs. These estimates and assumptions are based on the Companys historical experience combined with managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Management also uses third party actuaries to assist in measuring the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans. If management used different estimates and assumptions regarding these plans, the funded status of the plans could vary significantly, and the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. See Note 15 in Item 8 for additional information. Income Taxes The Company frequently faces challenges from U.S. and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company records reserves for estimates of potential additional tax owed by the Company. As an example, a subsidiary of the Company received tax assessments in the amount of $665 million consisting of tax, penalty, and interest (adjusted for interest and variation in currency exchange rates) from the Brazilian Federal Revenue Service challenging the deductibility of commodity hedging losses incurred by the Company for tax years 2004, 2006 and 2007. The Company evaluated its tax position regarding these hedging transactions and concluded, based in part upon advice from Brazilian legal counsel, that it was appropriate to recognize the tax benefits of these deductions (See Note 13 in Item 8 for additional information). Deferred tax assets represent items to be used as tax deductions or credits in future tax returns, and the related tax benefit has already been recognized in the Companys income statement. The realization of the Companys deferred tax assets is dependent upon future taxable income in specific tax jurisdictions, the timing and amount of which are uncertain. The Company evaluates all available positive and negative evidence including estimated future reversals of existing temporary differences, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies, and recent financial results. Valuation allowances related to these deferred tax assets have been established to the extent the realization of the tax benefit is not likely. To the extent the Company were to favorably resolve matters for which accruals have been established or be required to pay amounts in excess of the aforementioned reserves, the Companys effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be impacted. Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and the Companys share of the undistributed earnings of affiliated corporate joint venture companies accounted for on the equity method amounting to approximately $8.2 billion at June 30, 2011, are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned factors may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and cash flows of the Companys assets in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its factories. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment, technology, and companies related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. Assets are written down after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these assets, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Goodwill and other intangible assets The Company accounts for its goodwill and other intangible assets in accordance with ASC Topic 350, Intangibles Goodwill and Other. Under this standard, goodwill and intangible assets deemed to have indefinite lives are not amortized but are subject to annual impairment tests. The Company evaluates goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year or whenever there are indicators that the carrying value of the assets may not be fully recoverable. Definite lived intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its impairment tests, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Valuation of Marketable Securities and Investments in Affiliates The Company classifies the majority of its marketable securities as available for sale and carries these securities at fair value. The Company applies the equity method for investments over which the Company has the ability to exercise significant influence. These investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings and are adjusted, where appropriate, for amortizable basis differences between the investment balance and the underlying net assets of the investee. For publicly traded securities, the fair value of the Companys investments is readily available based on quoted market prices. For non publicly traded securities, managements assessment of fair value is based on valuation methodologies including discounted cash flows and estimates of sales proceeds. In the event of a decline in fair value of an investment below carrying value, management is required to determine if the decline in fair value is other than temporary. In evaluating the nature of a decline in the fair value of an investment, management considers the market conditions, trends of earnings, discounted cash flows, trading volumes, and other key measures of the investment as well as the Companys ability and intent to hold the investment. When such a decline in value is deemed to be other than temporary, an impairment loss is recognized in the current period operating results to the extent of the decline. See Notes 5 and 6 in Item 8 for information regarding the Companys marketable securities and investments in affiliates. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these marketable securities, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in: commodity market prices as they relate to the Companys net commodity position, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and prices of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to factors such as changes in weather conditions, disease, plantings, government programs and policies, competition, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. The Company enters into derivative and non derivative contracts with the primary objective of managing the Companys exposure to adverse price movements in the agricultural commodities used for, and produced in, our business operations. The Company will also use exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the volatility of the relationship between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contracts defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company, from time to time, enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold or net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. The Companys commodity position consists of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, related purchase and sales contracts, energy and freight contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts including contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements, net of sales. The fair value of the Companys commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing all of the commodity positions at quoted market prices for the period, where available, or utilizing a close proxy. The Company has established metrics to monitor the amount of market risk exposure, which consist of volumetric limits, and value at risk (VaR) limits. VaR measures the potential loss, at a 95% confidence level, that could be incurred over a one year period. Volumetric limits are monitored daily and VaR calculations and sensitivity analysis are monitored weekly. In addition to measuring the hypothetical loss resulting from an adverse two standard deviation move in market prices (assuming no correlations) over a one year period using VaR, sensitivity analysis is performed measuring the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in market prices. The highest, lowest, and average weekly position for each of the last two years together with the market risk from a hypothetical 10% adverse price change is as follows: 2011 2010 Long/(Short) Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest position $ 2,388 $ 239 $ 738 $ 74 Lowest position 368 37 (183 ) (18 ) Average position 1,644 164 216 22 The change in fair value of the average position for 2011 compared to 2010 was principally the result of changes in average quantities underlying the weekly commodity position. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) Currencies The Company conducts its business in over 75 countries. For the majority of the Companys subsidiaries located outside the United States, the local currency is the functional currency. To reduce the risks associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, the Company enters into currency exchange contracts to minimize its foreign currency position related to transactions denominated primarily in Euro, British pound, Canadian dollar, and Brazilian real currencies. These currencies represent the major functional or local currencies in which recurring business transactions occur. The Company does not use currency exchange contracts as hedges against amounts permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The currency exchange contracts used are forward contracts, swaps with banks, exchange traded futures contracts, and over the counter options. The changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $8.2 billion at June 30, 2011, and $6.4 billion at June 30, 2010. This increase is due to the appreciation of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar and an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The potential loss in fair value, which would principally be recognized in Other Comprehensive Income, resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $837 million and $639 million for 2011 and 2010, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 50 basis points decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2011 2010 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 9,108 $ 7,700 Excess of fair value over carrying value 842 870 Market risk 333 289 The increase in fair value of long term debt in 2011 resulted principally from the issuance of $1.5 billion of 18 month floating rate notes in February 2011. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Corn Processing operating profit increased 47% to $1.1 billion, which includes favorable impacts from ownership positions, which were allocated to sweeteners and starches and bioproducts based on total grind. Sweeteners and starches operating profit decreased $209 million to $320 million due to higher net corn costs partially offset by higher sales volumes. Sales volumes increased due to U.S. export shipments of sweeteners and improved U.S. demand for industrial starches. Bioproducts operating profit improved $549 million primarily due to higher ethanol sales volumes and higher average selling prices leading to increased ethanol and lysine margins. Bioproducts margins were also enhanced by favorable corn ownership positions. Bioproducts results included startup costs related to the Companys new plants of $94 million in the current year compared to $107 million in the prior year. Agricultural Services operating profit increased 38% to $922 million. Merchandising and handling results increased due to higher corn and wheat sales volumes and higher margins. A large 2010 U.S. harvest combined with strong international demand resulted in higher U.S. export shipments. Merchandising and handling results this year include an insurance recovery of $67 million related to property damage and business interruption resulting from an October 2008 explosion at the Companys Destrehan, Louisiana export facility. International merchandising results were weaker in part due to positions impacted by unexpected shifts in crop supply caused by weather conditions and government actions in the Black Sea region. Transportation results increased $19 million to $104 million primarily due to higher barge freight rates and higher barge utilization levels, in part due to higher U.S. export volumes. Other operating profit increased 14% to $513 million. Other processing operating results improved in the Companys wheat milling and cocoa business units due principally to increased equity earnings from the Companys equity investee, Gruma, which include a $78 million gain related to the disposal of Gruma assets. Other financial operating profit decreased $7 million primarily due to higher captive insurance loss provisions principally related to a $67 million loss related to the Companys Destrehan, Louisiana export facility insurance claim. Corporate results decreased $352 million primarily due to the negative impact from changing LIFO inventory valuations and higher unallocated interest expense net. The effects of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory reserves resulted in charges of $368 million compared to credits of $42 million for the prior year. Corporate unallocated interest expense increased $52 million mostly due to lower capitalization of interest costs for construction projects in progress. Partially offsetting the higher LIFO and unallocated interest costs were $30 million of gains on interest rate swaps compared to prior year losses on interest rate swaps of $59 million. In addition, the prior year included charges of $75 million on early debt extinguishment compared to $8 million of similar charges in the current year. 2010 Compared to 2009 As an agricultural commodity based business, the Company is subject to a variety of market factors which affect the Companys operating results. Market expectations throughout most of fiscal 2010 for fewer global crop supply and demand imbalances, coupled with continuing uncertainty about short term demand, led to generally lower and less volatile agricultural commodity market prices and conditions. In addition, the late, extended U.S. harvest reduced profit opportunities. North American oilseed exports and U.S. crushing volumes were enhanced in 2010 by the poor supply of 2009 crop year soybeans in South America. Increased government mandates for the use of biodiesel in South America and Europe resulted in increased biodiesel demand and helped keep overall demand for refined and crude vegetable oil steady in these regions. However, in North America, demand for vegetable oils remained weak in 2010 due to low consumption of oils in the food service and biodiesel industries, in part due to the expiration of the biodiesel blending credit in the U.S. on January 1, 2010. Soybean protein meal demand improved, particularly in Asia. Market prices for corn decreased in 2010 resulting in lower raw material costs for corn processing and decreased average selling prices for sweeteners and starches. Lower energy, fuel and chemical costs per unit positively impacted the Companys manufacturing costs. More favorable ethanol blending economics together with increased ethanol merchandising activity resulted in increased demand, higher ethanol sales volumes, and improved margins. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Earnings before income taxes for 2010 include a credit of $42 million from the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations, compared to a credit of $517 million in 2009. Income taxes decreased $146 million due to a lower effective income tax rate, partially offset by higher pretax earnings. Income taxes for 2009 included a $158 million charge resulting from the restructuring of a holding company in which the Company holds a portion of its equity investment in Wilmar. Analysis of Statements of Earnings Net sales and other operating income by segment for 2010 and 2009 have been reclassified to conform to the current years presentation resulting in reclassified net sales and other operating income at the segment level with no impact to total net sales and other operating income or operating profit. Net sales and other operating income by segment are as follows: 2010 2009 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing and Origination $ 14,487 $ 15,013 $ (526 ) Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel and Other 7,133 8,756 (1,623 ) Asia 190 179 11 Total Oilseeds Processing 21,810 23,948 (2,138 ) Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 3,264 3,690 (426 ) Bioproducts 4,610 3,938 672 Total Corn Processing 7,874 7,628 246 Agricultural Services Merchandising and Handling 26,589 32,007 (5,418 ) Transportation 167 242 (75 ) Total Agricultural Services 26,756 32,249 (5,493 ) Other Processing 5,147 5,272 (125 ) Financial 95 110 (15 ) Total Other 5,242 5,382 (140 ) Total $ 61,682 $ 69,207 $ (7,525 ) Net sales and other operating income decreased 11% to $61.7 billion due principally to lower average selling prices in 2010 in line with year over year declines in underlying commodity costs. Oilseeds Processing sales decreased 9% to $21.8 billion, due principally to lower average selling prices for soybeans, protein meal, refined oil, and biodiesel partially offset by increased sales volumes of soybeans and fertilizer. Corn Processing sales increased 3% to $7.9 billion primarily as a result of increased sales volumes of ethanol and lysine partially offset by lower average selling prices of ethanol, sweeteners, and starches. Agricultural Services sales decreased 17% to $26.8 billion, due to lower average selling prices, in line with year over year declines in underlying commodity prices and lower sales volumes. Other sales decreased 3% to $5.2 billion, primarily due to lower average selling prices of wheat flour partially offset by increased wheat flour sales volumes and higher average selling prices and sales volumes for cocoa products. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Cost of products sold decreased 11% to $57.8 billion, due principally to decreased agricultural commodity costs including the impact of changes in LIFO inventory valuations which reduced cost of products sold by $42 million in 2010 compared to $517 million in 2009. Manufacturing expenses decreased 1% or $60 million, primarily due to lower energy, chemical and fuel costs partially offset by higher employee related costs and a $124 million increase in depreciation and amortization expense. In 2010, manufacturing expenses included additional costs associated with the Companys new greenfield plants. Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased 1% to $1.4 billion, due principally to decreased provisions for doubtful accounts partially offset by increased expenses for legal, professional, and commercial services. Equity earnings of unconsolidated affiliates increased $416 million to $561 million primarily due to the absence of a non cash charge of $275 million in 2009 related to currency derivative losses of the Companys equity investee, Gruma S.A.B. de C.V. Interest income declined $55 million to $126 million primarily due to lower average interest rates. Interest expense declined $47 million to $422 million primarily due to lower average interest rates. Other expense net increased $91 million due to pre tax charges of $75 million related to the early extinguishment of debt and $59 million for unrealized losses on interest rate swaps (for more information on the charges related to the early extinguishment of debt, see Note 8 in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data). Income taxes decreased $146 million due to a lower effective income tax rate partially offset by higher pretax earnings. The Companys effective income tax rate during 2010 was 25.8%. In 2009, the effective income tax rate was 32.5% which included $158 million of income tax charges related to the partial restructuring of the holding company structure through which the Company holds a portion of its equity investment in Wilmar. Excluding these Wilmar charges, the Companys effective income tax rate for 2009 was 26.2%. For more information concerning Wilmar tax matters see Note 13 in Item 8. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Operating profit by segment is as follows: 2010 2009 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing and Origination $ 818 $ 767 $ 51 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel and Other 291 265 26 Asia 291 248 43 Total Oilseeds Processing 1,400 1,280 120 Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 529 500 29 Bioproducts 193 (315 ) 508 Total Corn Processing 722 185 537 Agricultural Services Merchandising and Handling 583 832 (249 ) Transportation 85 162 (77 ) Total Agricultural Services 668 994 (326 ) Other Processing 403 51 352 Financial 46 (57 ) 103 Total Other 449 (6 ) 455 Total Segment Operating Profit 3,239 2,453 786 Corporate (see below) (654 ) 47 (701 ) Earnings Before Income Taxes $ 2,585 $ 2,500 $ 85 Corporate results are as follows: 2010 2009 Change (In millions) LIFO credit $ 42 $ 517 $ (475 ) Unallocated interest expense net (283 ) (192 ) (91 ) Unallocated corporate costs (266 ) (252 ) (14 ) Charges on early extinguishment of debt (75 ) (75 ) Unrealized losses on interest rate swaps (59 ) (59 ) Other (13 ) (26 ) 13 Total Corporate $ (654 ) $ 47 $ (701 ) Oilseeds Processing operating profit increased 9% to $1.4 billion. Crushing and origination results increased $51 million due to higher North American soybean crushing margins and favorable soft seed commodity positioning, partially offset by lower soybean crushing margins in Europe and South America. Refining, packaging, biodiesel and other operating profit increased $26 million due primarily to higher South American biodiesel results and improved margins in Europe. Oilseeds processing results in Asia increased $43 million to $291 million due principally to improved equity earnings of Wilmar. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Corn Processing operating profit increased $537 million to $722 million. Bioproducts operating profit increased $508 million due to improved ethanol and lysine sales volumes and improved ethanol margins resulting from lower net corn costs and decreased manufacturing costs. Ethanol sales volumes increased due to favorable gasoline blending economics and increased merchandising activity. Sweeteners and starches operating profit increased $29 million due to lower net corn and manufacturing costs due principally to lower energy and chemical prices. These lower manufacturing costs were partially offset by lower average selling prices. Agricultural Services operating profit decreased $326 million to $668 million. Merchandising and handling results decreased $249 million. Enhanced volume and margin opportunities created by 2009s volatile commodity markets and tight credit markets did not recur. Volumes and margins in 2010 benefited from strong demand for U.S. soybean exports following the short South American 2009 crop. Transportation results decreased $77 million due to lower barge freight rates and decreased barge utilization levels resulting from weaker U.S. economic conditions and the late, extended North American harvest. Other operating profit increased $455 million to $449 million. Other processing operating profit increased $352 million due to improved equity earnings from the Companys investment in Gruma, improved wheat milling margins, and improved cocoa processing results. Financial operating profit increased $103 million due primarily to the absence of losses experienced in 2009 from managed fund investments and captive insurance operations. Corporate results decreased $701 million. The effects of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations resulted in a credit of $42 million for the year ended June 30, 2010, compared to a credit of $517 million for the year ended June 30, 2009. Unallocated interest expense net increased $91 million reflecting a reduction in corporate interest income caused by lower short term interest rates and lower working capital requirements of the operating segments. In March 2010, the Company repurchased $500 million of long term debt which generated a $75 million pretax charge on early extinguishment of debt. In connection with a debt remarketing planned for 2011, the Company entered into interest rate swaps to fix the interest rate on a portion of the planned remarketing which resulted in $59 million of unrealized losses on interest rate swaps. Liquidity and Capital Resources A Company objective is to have sufficient liquidity, balance sheet strength, and financial flexibility to fund the operating and capital requirements of a capital intensive agricultural commodity based business. The primary source of funds to finance the Companys operations and capital expenditures is cash generated by operations. In addition, the Company maintains a commercial paper borrowing facility and has access to equity and debt capital from public and private sources in both U.S. and international markets. At June 30, 2011, the Company had $1.4 billion of cash, cash equivalents, and short term marketable securities and a current ratio, defined as current assets divided by current liabilities, of 2.1 to 1. Included in working capital is $7.1 billion of readily marketable commodity inventories. Cash used in operating activities was $2.3 billion for the year compared to cash provided by operating activities of $2.7 billion last year. Working capital increased in the current year due principally to higher agricultural commodity market prices. Cash used in investing activities of $1.7 billion, principally for capital expenditures, businesses acquired, and investments, was in line with last year. Cash provided by financing activities was $3.6 billion for the year compared to cash used in financing activities of $1.0 billion last year. Net borrowings increased primarily to fund higher working capital. Short term borrowings increased due principally to higher commercial paper borrowings, and long term borrowings increased primarily as a result of the issuance of $1.5 billion of 18 month floating rate notes in February 2011. In addition, the Company issued common stock and received $1.75 billion under the forward stock purchase component of the Companys Equity Units (see Note 8 in Item 8). At June 30, 2011, the Companys capital resources included net worth of $18.8 billion and lines of credit totaling $6.9 billion, of which $5.7 billion was unused. The Companys ratio of long term debt to total capital (the sum of the Companys long term debt and shareholders equity) was 30% at June 30, 2011 and 32% at June 30, 2010. This ratio is a measure of the Companys long term indebtedness and is an indicator of financial flexibility. Of the Companys total lines of credit, $4.6 billion support a commercial paper borrowing facility, against which there were $620 million of commercial paper outstanding at June 30, 2011. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) The Company has outstanding $1.15 billion principal amount of convertible senior notes. As of June 30, 2011, none of the conditions permitting conversion of these notes had been satisfied. The Company has purchased call options and warrants intended to reduce the potential shareholder dilution upon future conversion of the notes. As of June 30, 2011, the market price of the Companys common stock was not greater than the exercise price of the purchased call options or warrants related to the convertible senior notes. On July 1, 2011, the Company entered into a 364 day accounts receivable securitization facility. The facility provides the Company with up to $1.0 billion in liquidity. Under the facility, the Companys U.S. originated trade accounts receivable are sold to a wholly owned bankruptcy remote entity which then sells an undivided interest in the receivable as a collateral for any borrowings under the facility. Any borrowings under the facility will be recorded as secured borrowings. As of August 24, 2011, the Company had not used the facility. This facility expands the Companys access to liquidity through efficient use of its balance sheet assets. The Companys credit facilities and certain debentures require the Company to comply with specified financial and non financial covenants including maintenance of minimum tangible net worth as well as limitations related to incurring liens, secured debt, and certain other financing arrangements. The Company is in compliance with these covenants as of June 30, 2011. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements In the normal course of business, the Company enters into contracts and commitments which obligate the Company to make payments in the future. The following table sets forth the Companys significant future obligations by time period. Purchases include commodity based contracts entered into in the normal course of business, which are further described in Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, energy related purchase contracts entered into in the normal course of business, and other purchase obligations related to the Companys normal business activities. The following table does not include unrecognized income tax benefits of $79 million as of June 30, 2011 as the Company is unable to reasonably estimate the timing of settlement. Where applicable, information included in the Companys consolidated financial statements and notes is cross referenced in this table. Payments Due by Period Contractual Item 8 Note Less than 1 3 3 5 More than Obligations Reference Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years (In millions) Purchases Inventories $ 17,457 $ 16,593 $ 807 $ 43 $ 14 Energy 456 340 76 22 18 Other 398 168 186 35 9 Total purchases 18,311 17,101 1,069 100 41 Short term debt 1,875 1,875 Long term debt Note 8 8,444 178 2,875 46 5,345 Estimated interest payments 7,177 384 690 646 5,457 Operating leases Note 14 1,163 233 334 225 371 Estimated pension and other postretirement plan contributions (1) Note 15 167 55 19 21 72 Total $ 37,137 $ 19,826 $ 4,987 $ 1,038 $ 11,286 (1) Includes pension contributions of $47 million for fiscal 2012. The Company is unable to estimate the amount of pension contributions beyond fiscal year 2012. For more information concerning the Companys pension and other postretirement plans, see Note 15 in Item 8. At June 30, 2011, the Company estimates it will spend approximately $2.8 billion through calendar year 2014 to complete currently approved capital projects which are not included in the table above. The Company also has outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds of $620 million at June 30, 2011. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) In addition, the Company has entered into agreements, primarily debt guarantee agreements related to equity method investees, which could obligate the Company to make future payments. The Companys liability under these agreements arises only if the primary entity fails to perform its contractual obligation. The Company has collateral for a portion of these contingent obligations. At June 30, 2011, these contingent obligations totaled approximately $121 million. Amounts outstanding for the primary entity under these contingent obligations were $69 million at June 30, 2011. Critical Accounting Policies The process of preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the carrying values of the Companys assets and liabilities as well as the recognition of revenues and expenses. These estimates and judgments are based on the Companys historical experience and managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Certain of the Companys accounting policies are considered critical, as these policies are important to the depiction of the Companys financial statements and require significant or complex judgment by management. Management has discussed with the Companys Audit Committee the development, selection, disclosure, and application of these critical accounting policies. Following are the accounting policies management considers critical to the Companys financial statements. Inventories and Derivatives Certain of the Companys merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, forward fixed price purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts are valued at estimated market values. These merchandisable agricultural commodities are freely traded, have quoted market prices, and may be sold without significant additional processing. Management estimates market value based on exchange quoted prices, adjusted for differences in local markets. Changes in the market values of these inventories and contracts are recognized in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. If management used different methods or factors to estimate market value, amounts reported as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. Additionally, if market conditions change subsequent to year end, amounts reported in future periods as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. The Company, from time to time, uses derivative contracts designated as cash flow hedges to fix the purchase price of anticipated volumes of commodities to be purchased and processed in a future month, to fix the purchase price of the Companys anticipated natural gas requirements for certain production facilities, and to fix the sales price of anticipated volumes of ethanol. The change in the market value of such derivative contracts has historically been, and is expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold and net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. If it is determined that the derivative instruments used are no longer effective at offsetting changes in the price of the hedged item, then the changes in the market value of these exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts would be recorded in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. See Note 4 in Item 8 for additional information. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Employee Benefit Plans The Company provides substantially all U.S. employees and employees at certain international subsidiaries with pension benefits. Eligible U.S. employees with five or more years of service prior to January 1, 2009 participate in a defined benefit pension plan. Eligible U.S. employees hired on or after January 1, 2009 (and eligible salaried employees with less than five years of service prior to January 1, 2009) participate in a cash balance pension formula. The Company provides eligible U.S. employees who retire under qualifying conditions with access to postretirement health care, at full cost to the retiree (certain employees are grandfathered into subsidized coverage). In order to measure the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans, management makes several estimates and assumptions, including interest rates used to discount certain liabilities, rates of return on assets set aside to fund these plans, rates of compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and anticipated future health care costs. These estimates and assumptions are based on the Companys historical experience combined with managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Management also uses third party actuaries to assist in measuring the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans. If management used different estimates and assumptions regarding these plans, the funded status of the plans could vary significantly, and the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. See Note 15 in Item 8 for additional information. Income Taxes The Company frequently faces challenges from U.S. and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company records reserves for estimates of potential additional tax owed by the Company. As an example, a subsidiary of the Company received tax assessments in the amount of $665 million consisting of tax, penalty, and interest (adjusted for interest and variation in currency exchange rates) from the Brazilian Federal Revenue Service challenging the deductibility of commodity hedging losses incurred by the Company for tax years 2004, 2006 and 2007. The Company evaluated its tax position regarding these hedging transactions and concluded, based in part upon advice from Brazilian legal counsel, that it was appropriate to recognize the tax benefits of these deductions (See Note 13 in Item 8 for additional information). Deferred tax assets represent items to be used as tax deductions or credits in future tax returns, and the related tax benefit has already been recognized in the Companys income statement. The realization of the Companys deferred tax assets is dependent upon future taxable income in specific tax jurisdictions, the timing and amount of which are uncertain. The Company evaluates all available positive and negative evidence including estimated future reversals of existing temporary differences, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies, and recent financial results. Valuation allowances related to these deferred tax assets have been established to the extent the realization of the tax benefit is not likely. To the extent the Company were to favorably resolve matters for which accruals have been established or be required to pay amounts in excess of the aforementioned reserves, the Companys effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be impacted. Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and the Companys share of the undistributed earnings of affiliated corporate joint venture companies accounted for on the equity method amounting to approximately $8.2 billion at June 30, 2011, are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned factors may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and cash flows of the Companys assets in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its factories. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment, technology, and companies related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. Assets are written down after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these assets, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Goodwill and other intangible assets The Company accounts for its goodwill and other intangible assets in accordance with ASC Topic 350, Intangibles Goodwill and Other. Under this standard, goodwill and intangible assets deemed to have indefinite lives are not amortized but are subject to annual impairment tests. The Company evaluates goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year or whenever there are indicators that the carrying value of the assets may not be fully recoverable. Definite lived intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its impairment tests, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Valuation of Marketable Securities and Investments in Affiliates The Company classifies the majority of its marketable securities as available for sale and carries these securities at fair value. The Company applies the equity method for investments over which the Company has the ability to exercise significant influence. These investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings and are adjusted, where appropriate, for amortizable basis differences between the investment balance and the underlying net assets of the investee. For publicly traded securities, the fair value of the Companys investments is readily available based on quoted market prices. For non publicly traded securities, managements assessment of fair value is based on valuation methodologies including discounted cash flows and estimates of sales proceeds. In the event of a decline in fair value of an investment below carrying value, management is required to determine if the decline in fair value is other than temporary. In evaluating the nature of a decline in the fair value of an investment, management considers the market conditions, trends of earnings, discounted cash flows, trading volumes, and other key measures of the investment as well as the Companys ability and intent to hold the investment. When such a decline in value is deemed to be other than temporary, an impairment loss is recognized in the current period operating results to the extent of the decline. See Notes 5 and 6 in Item 8 for information regarding the Companys marketable securities and investments in affiliates. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these marketable securities, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in: commodity market prices as they relate to the Companys net commodity position, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and prices of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to factors such as changes in weather conditions, disease, plantings, government programs and policies, competition, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. The Company enters into derivative and non derivative contracts with the primary objective of managing the Companys exposure to adverse price movements in the agricultural commodities used for, and produced in, our business operations. The Company will also use exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the volatility of the relationship between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contracts defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company, from time to time, enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold or net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. The Companys commodity position consists of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, related purchase and sales contracts, energy and freight contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts including contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements, net of sales. The fair value of the Companys commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing all of the commodity positions at quoted market prices for the period, where available, or utilizing a close proxy. The Company has established metrics to monitor the amount of market risk exposure, which consist of volumetric limits, and value at risk (VaR) limits. VaR measures the potential loss, at a 95% confidence level, that could be incurred over a one year period. Volumetric limits are monitored daily and VaR calculations and sensitivity analysis are monitored weekly. In addition to measuring the hypothetical loss resulting from an adverse two standard deviation move in market prices (assuming no correlations) over a one year period using VaR, sensitivity analysis is performed measuring the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in market prices. The highest, lowest, and average weekly position for each of the last two years together with the market risk from a hypothetical 10% adverse price change is as follows: 2011 2010 Long/(Short) Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest position $ 2,388 $ 239 $ 738 $ 74 Lowest position 368 37 (183 ) (18 ) Average position 1,644 164 216 22 The change in fair value of the average position for 2011 compared to 2010 was principally the result of changes in average quantities underlying the weekly commodity position. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) Currencies The Company conducts its business in over 75 countries. For the majority of the Companys subsidiaries located outside the United States, the local currency is the functional currency. To reduce the risks associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, the Company enters into currency exchange contracts to minimize its foreign currency position related to transactions denominated primarily in Euro, British pound, Canadian dollar, and Brazilian real currencies. These currencies represent the major functional or local currencies in which recurring business transactions occur. The Company does not use currency exchange contracts as hedges against amounts permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The currency exchange contracts used are forward contracts, swaps with banks, exchange traded futures contracts, and over the counter options. The changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $8.2 billion at June 30, 2011, and $6.4 billion at June 30, 2010. This increase is due to the appreciation of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar and an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The potential loss in fair value, which would principally be recognized in Other Comprehensive Income, resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $837 million and $639 million for 2011 and 2010, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 50 basis points decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2011 2010 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 9,108 $ 7,700 Excess of fair value over carrying value 842 870 Market risk 333 289 The increase in fair value of long term debt in 2011 resulted principally from the issuance of $1.5 billion of 18 month floating rate notes in February 2011. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Earnings before income taxes for 2010 include a credit of $42 million from the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations, compared to a credit of $517 million in 2009. Income taxes decreased $146 million due to a lower effective income tax rate, partially offset by higher pretax earnings. Income taxes for 2009 included a $158 million charge resulting from the restructuring of a holding company in which the Company holds a portion of its equity investment in Wilmar. Analysis of Statements of Earnings Net sales and other operating income by segment for 2010 and 2009 have been reclassified to conform to the current years presentation resulting in reclassified net sales and other operating income at the segment level with no impact to total net sales and other operating income or operating profit. Net sales and other operating income by segment are as follows: 2010 2009 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing and Origination $ 14,487 $ 15,013 $ (526 ) Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel and Other 7,133 8,756 (1,623 ) Asia 190 179 11 Total Oilseeds Processing 21,810 23,948 (2,138 ) Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 3,264 3,690 (426 ) Bioproducts 4,610 3,938 672 Total Corn Processing 7,874 7,628 246 Agricultural Services Merchandising and Handling 26,589 32,007 (5,418 ) Transportation 167 242 (75 ) Total Agricultural Services 26,756 32,249 (5,493 ) Other Processing 5,147 5,272 (125 ) Financial 95 110 (15 ) Total Other 5,242 5,382 (140 ) Total $ 61,682 $ 69,207 $ (7,525 ) Net sales and other operating income decreased 11% to $61.7 billion due principally to lower average selling prices in 2010 in line with year over year declines in underlying commodity costs. Oilseeds Processing sales decreased 9% to $21.8 billion, due principally to lower average selling prices for soybeans, protein meal, refined oil, and biodiesel partially offset by increased sales volumes of soybeans and fertilizer. Corn Processing sales increased 3% to $7.9 billion primarily as a result of increased sales volumes of ethanol and lysine partially offset by lower average selling prices of ethanol, sweeteners, and starches. Agricultural Services sales decreased 17% to $26.8 billion, due to lower average selling prices, in line with year over year declines in underlying commodity prices and lower sales volumes. Other sales decreased 3% to $5.2 billion, primarily due to lower average selling prices of wheat flour partially offset by increased wheat flour sales volumes and higher average selling prices and sales volumes for cocoa products. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Cost of products sold decreased 11% to $57.8 billion, due principally to decreased agricultural commodity costs including the impact of changes in LIFO inventory valuations which reduced cost of products sold by $42 million in 2010 compared to $517 million in 2009. Manufacturing expenses decreased 1% or $60 million, primarily due to lower energy, chemical and fuel costs partially offset by higher employee related costs and a $124 million increase in depreciation and amortization expense. In 2010, manufacturing expenses included additional costs associated with the Companys new greenfield plants. Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased 1% to $1.4 billion, due principally to decreased provisions for doubtful accounts partially offset by increased expenses for legal, professional, and commercial services. Equity earnings of unconsolidated affiliates increased $416 million to $561 million primarily due to the absence of a non cash charge of $275 million in 2009 related to currency derivative losses of the Companys equity investee, Gruma S.A.B. de C.V. Interest income declined $55 million to $126 million primarily due to lower average interest rates. Interest expense declined $47 million to $422 million primarily due to lower average interest rates. Other expense net increased $91 million due to pre tax charges of $75 million related to the early extinguishment of debt and $59 million for unrealized losses on interest rate swaps (for more information on the charges related to the early extinguishment of debt, see Note 8 in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data). Income taxes decreased $146 million due to a lower effective income tax rate partially offset by higher pretax earnings. The Companys effective income tax rate during 2010 was 25.8%. In 2009, the effective income tax rate was 32.5% which included $158 million of income tax charges related to the partial restructuring of the holding company structure through which the Company holds a portion of its equity investment in Wilmar. Excluding these Wilmar charges, the Companys effective income tax rate for 2009 was 26.2%. For more information concerning Wilmar tax matters see Note 13 in Item 8. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Operating profit by segment is as follows: 2010 2009 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing and Origination $ 818 $ 767 $ 51 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel and Other 291 265 26 Asia 291 248 43 Total Oilseeds Processing 1,400 1,280 120 Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 529 500 29 Bioproducts 193 (315 ) 508 Total Corn Processing 722 185 537 Agricultural Services Merchandising and Handling 583 832 (249 ) Transportation 85 162 (77 ) Total Agricultural Services 668 994 (326 ) Other Processing 403 51 352 Financial 46 (57 ) 103 Total Other 449 (6 ) 455 Total Segment Operating Profit 3,239 2,453 786 Corporate (see below) (654 ) 47 (701 ) Earnings Before Income Taxes $ 2,585 $ 2,500 $ 85 Corporate results are as follows: 2010 2009 Change (In millions) LIFO credit $ 42 $ 517 $ (475 ) Unallocated interest expense net (283 ) (192 ) (91 ) Unallocated corporate costs (266 ) (252 ) (14 ) Charges on early extinguishment of debt (75 ) (75 ) Unrealized losses on interest rate swaps (59 ) (59 ) Other (13 ) (26 ) 13 Total Corporate $ (654 ) $ 47 $ (701 ) Oilseeds Processing operating profit increased 9% to $1.4 billion. Crushing and origination results increased $51 million due to higher North American soybean crushing margins and favorable soft seed commodity positioning, partially offset by lower soybean crushing margins in Europe and South America. Refining, packaging, biodiesel and other operating profit increased $26 million due primarily to higher South American biodiesel results and improved margins in Europe. Oilseeds processing results in Asia increased $43 million to $291 million due principally to improved equity earnings of Wilmar. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Corn Processing operating profit increased $537 million to $722 million. Bioproducts operating profit increased $508 million due to improved ethanol and lysine sales volumes and improved ethanol margins resulting from lower net corn costs and decreased manufacturing costs. Ethanol sales volumes increased due to favorable gasoline blending economics and increased merchandising activity. Sweeteners and starches operating profit increased $29 million due to lower net corn and manufacturing costs due principally to lower energy and chemical prices. These lower manufacturing costs were partially offset by lower average selling prices. Agricultural Services operating profit decreased $326 million to $668 million. Merchandising and handling results decreased $249 million. Enhanced volume and margin opportunities created by 2009s volatile commodity markets and tight credit markets did not recur. Volumes and margins in 2010 benefited from strong demand for U.S. soybean exports following the short South American 2009 crop. Transportation results decreased $77 million due to lower barge freight rates and decreased barge utilization levels resulting from weaker U.S. economic conditions and the late, extended North American harvest. Other operating profit increased $455 million to $449 million. Other processing operating profit increased $352 million due to improved equity earnings from the Companys investment in Gruma, improved wheat milling margins, and improved cocoa processing results. Financial operating profit increased $103 million due primarily to the absence of losses experienced in 2009 from managed fund investments and captive insurance operations. Corporate results decreased $701 million. The effects of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations resulted in a credit of $42 million for the year ended June 30, 2010, compared to a credit of $517 million for the year ended June 30, 2009. Unallocated interest expense net increased $91 million reflecting a reduction in corporate interest income caused by lower short term interest rates and lower working capital requirements of the operating segments. In March 2010, the Company repurchased $500 million of long term debt which generated a $75 million pretax charge on early extinguishment of debt. In connection with a debt remarketing planned for 2011, the Company entered into interest rate swaps to fix the interest rate on a portion of the planned remarketing which resulted in $59 million of unrealized losses on interest rate swaps. Liquidity and Capital Resources A Company objective is to have sufficient liquidity, balance sheet strength, and financial flexibility to fund the operating and capital requirements of a capital intensive agricultural commodity based business. The primary source of funds to finance the Companys operations and capital expenditures is cash generated by operations. In addition, the Company maintains a commercial paper borrowing facility and has access to equity and debt capital from public and private sources in both U.S. and international markets. At June 30, 2011, the Company had $1.4 billion of cash, cash equivalents, and short term marketable securities and a current ratio, defined as current assets divided by current liabilities, of 2.1 to 1. Included in working capital is $7.1 billion of readily marketable commodity inventories. Cash used in operating activities was $2.3 billion for the year compared to cash provided by operating activities of $2.7 billion last year. Working capital increased in the current year due principally to higher agricultural commodity market prices. Cash used in investing activities of $1.7 billion, principally for capital expenditures, businesses acquired, and investments, was in line with last year. Cash provided by financing activities was $3.6 billion for the year compared to cash used in financing activities of $1.0 billion last year. Net borrowings increased primarily to fund higher working capital. Short term borrowings increased due principally to higher commercial paper borrowings, and long term borrowings increased primarily as a result of the issuance of $1.5 billion of 18 month floating rate notes in February 2011. In addition, the Company issued common stock and received $1.75 billion under the forward stock purchase component of the Companys Equity Units (see Note 8 in Item 8). At June 30, 2011, the Companys capital resources included net worth of $18.8 billion and lines of credit totaling $6.9 billion, of which $5.7 billion was unused. The Companys ratio of long term debt to total capital (the sum of the Companys long term debt and shareholders equity) was 30% at June 30, 2011 and 32% at June 30, 2010. This ratio is a measure of the Companys long term indebtedness and is an indicator of financial flexibility. Of the Companys total lines of credit, $4.6 billion support a commercial paper borrowing facility, against which there were $620 million of commercial paper outstanding at June 30, 2011. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) The Company has outstanding $1.15 billion principal amount of convertible senior notes. As of June 30, 2011, none of the conditions permitting conversion of these notes had been satisfied. The Company has purchased call options and warrants intended to reduce the potential shareholder dilution upon future conversion of the notes. As of June 30, 2011, the market price of the Companys common stock was not greater than the exercise price of the purchased call options or warrants related to the convertible senior notes. On July 1, 2011, the Company entered into a 364 day accounts receivable securitization facility. The facility provides the Company with up to $1.0 billion in liquidity. Under the facility, the Companys U.S. originated trade accounts receivable are sold to a wholly owned bankruptcy remote entity which then sells an undivided interest in the receivable as a collateral for any borrowings under the facility. Any borrowings under the facility will be recorded as secured borrowings. As of August 24, 2011, the Company had not used the facility. This facility expands the Companys access to liquidity through efficient use of its balance sheet assets. The Companys credit facilities and certain debentures require the Company to comply with specified financial and non financial covenants including maintenance of minimum tangible net worth as well as limitations related to incurring liens, secured debt, and certain other financing arrangements. The Company is in compliance with these covenants as of June 30, 2011. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements In the normal course of business, the Company enters into contracts and commitments which obligate the Company to make payments in the future. The following table sets forth the Companys significant future obligations by time period. Purchases include commodity based contracts entered into in the normal course of business, which are further described in Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, energy related purchase contracts entered into in the normal course of business, and other purchase obligations related to the Companys normal business activities. The following table does not include unrecognized income tax benefits of $79 million as of June 30, 2011 as the Company is unable to reasonably estimate the timing of settlement. Where applicable, information included in the Companys consolidated financial statements and notes is cross referenced in this table. Payments Due by Period Contractual Item 8 Note Less than 1 3 3 5 More than Obligations Reference Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years (In millions) Purchases Inventories $ 17,457 $ 16,593 $ 807 $ 43 $ 14 Energy 456 340 76 22 18 Other 398 168 186 35 9 Total purchases 18,311 17,101 1,069 100 41 Short term debt 1,875 1,875 Long term debt Note 8 8,444 178 2,875 46 5,345 Estimated interest payments 7,177 384 690 646 5,457 Operating leases Note 14 1,163 233 334 225 371 Estimated pension and other postretirement plan contributions (1) Note 15 167 55 19 21 72 Total $ 37,137 $ 19,826 $ 4,987 $ 1,038 $ 11,286 (1) Includes pension contributions of $47 million for fiscal 2012. The Company is unable to estimate the amount of pension contributions beyond fiscal year 2012. For more information concerning the Companys pension and other postretirement plans, see Note 15 in Item 8. At June 30, 2011, the Company estimates it will spend approximately $2.8 billion through calendar year 2014 to complete currently approved capital projects which are not included in the table above. The Company also has outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds of $620 million at June 30, 2011. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) In addition, the Company has entered into agreements, primarily debt guarantee agreements related to equity method investees, which could obligate the Company to make future payments. The Companys liability under these agreements arises only if the primary entity fails to perform its contractual obligation. The Company has collateral for a portion of these contingent obligations. At June 30, 2011, these contingent obligations totaled approximately $121 million. Amounts outstanding for the primary entity under these contingent obligations were $69 million at June 30, 2011. Critical Accounting Policies The process of preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the carrying values of the Companys assets and liabilities as well as the recognition of revenues and expenses. These estimates and judgments are based on the Companys historical experience and managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Certain of the Companys accounting policies are considered critical, as these policies are important to the depiction of the Companys financial statements and require significant or complex judgment by management. Management has discussed with the Companys Audit Committee the development, selection, disclosure, and application of these critical accounting policies. Following are the accounting policies management considers critical to the Companys financial statements. Inventories and Derivatives Certain of the Companys merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, forward fixed price purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts are valued at estimated market values. These merchandisable agricultural commodities are freely traded, have quoted market prices, and may be sold without significant additional processing. Management estimates market value based on exchange quoted prices, adjusted for differences in local markets. Changes in the market values of these inventories and contracts are recognized in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. If management used different methods or factors to estimate market value, amounts reported as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. Additionally, if market conditions change subsequent to year end, amounts reported in future periods as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. The Company, from time to time, uses derivative contracts designated as cash flow hedges to fix the purchase price of anticipated volumes of commodities to be purchased and processed in a future month, to fix the purchase price of the Companys anticipated natural gas requirements for certain production facilities, and to fix the sales price of anticipated volumes of ethanol. The change in the market value of such derivative contracts has historically been, and is expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold and net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. If it is determined that the derivative instruments used are no longer effective at offsetting changes in the price of the hedged item, then the changes in the market value of these exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts would be recorded in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. See Note 4 in Item 8 for additional information. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Employee Benefit Plans The Company provides substantially all U.S. employees and employees at certain international subsidiaries with pension benefits. Eligible U.S. employees with five or more years of service prior to January 1, 2009 participate in a defined benefit pension plan. Eligible U.S. employees hired on or after January 1, 2009 (and eligible salaried employees with less than five years of service prior to January 1, 2009) participate in a cash balance pension formula. The Company provides eligible U.S. employees who retire under qualifying conditions with access to postretirement health care, at full cost to the retiree (certain employees are grandfathered into subsidized coverage). In order to measure the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans, management makes several estimates and assumptions, including interest rates used to discount certain liabilities, rates of return on assets set aside to fund these plans, rates of compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and anticipated future health care costs. These estimates and assumptions are based on the Companys historical experience combined with managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Management also uses third party actuaries to assist in measuring the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans. If management used different estimates and assumptions regarding these plans, the funded status of the plans could vary significantly, and the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. See Note 15 in Item 8 for additional information. Income Taxes The Company frequently faces challenges from U.S. and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company records reserves for estimates of potential additional tax owed by the Company. As an example, a subsidiary of the Company received tax assessments in the amount of $665 million consisting of tax, penalty, and interest (adjusted for interest and variation in currency exchange rates) from the Brazilian Federal Revenue Service challenging the deductibility of commodity hedging losses incurred by the Company for tax years 2004, 2006 and 2007. The Company evaluated its tax position regarding these hedging transactions and concluded, based in part upon advice from Brazilian legal counsel, that it was appropriate to recognize the tax benefits of these deductions (See Note 13 in Item 8 for additional information). Deferred tax assets represent items to be used as tax deductions or credits in future tax returns, and the related tax benefit has already been recognized in the Companys income statement. The realization of the Companys deferred tax assets is dependent upon future taxable income in specific tax jurisdictions, the timing and amount of which are uncertain. The Company evaluates all available positive and negative evidence including estimated future reversals of existing temporary differences, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies, and recent financial results. Valuation allowances related to these deferred tax assets have been established to the extent the realization of the tax benefit is not likely. To the extent the Company were to favorably resolve matters for which accruals have been established or be required to pay amounts in excess of the aforementioned reserves, the Companys effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be impacted. Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and the Companys share of the undistributed earnings of affiliated corporate joint venture companies accounted for on the equity method amounting to approximately $8.2 billion at June 30, 2011, are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned factors may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and cash flows of the Companys assets in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its factories. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment, technology, and companies related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. Assets are written down after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these assets, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Goodwill and other intangible assets The Company accounts for its goodwill and other intangible assets in accordance with ASC Topic 350, Intangibles Goodwill and Other. Under this standard, goodwill and intangible assets deemed to have indefinite lives are not amortized but are subject to annual impairment tests. The Company evaluates goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year or whenever there are indicators that the carrying value of the assets may not be fully recoverable. Definite lived intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its impairment tests, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Valuation of Marketable Securities and Investments in Affiliates The Company classifies the majority of its marketable securities as available for sale and carries these securities at fair value. The Company applies the equity method for investments over which the Company has the ability to exercise significant influence. These investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings and are adjusted, where appropriate, for amortizable basis differences between the investment balance and the underlying net assets of the investee. For publicly traded securities, the fair value of the Companys investments is readily available based on quoted market prices. For non publicly traded securities, managements assessment of fair value is based on valuation methodologies including discounted cash flows and estimates of sales proceeds. In the event of a decline in fair value of an investment below carrying value, management is required to determine if the decline in fair value is other than temporary. In evaluating the nature of a decline in the fair value of an investment, management considers the market conditions, trends of earnings, discounted cash flows, trading volumes, and other key measures of the investment as well as the Companys ability and intent to hold the investment. When such a decline in value is deemed to be other than temporary, an impairment loss is recognized in the current period operating results to the extent of the decline. See Notes 5 and 6 in Item 8 for information regarding the Companys marketable securities and investments in affiliates. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these marketable securities, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in: commodity market prices as they relate to the Companys net commodity position, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and prices of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to factors such as changes in weather conditions, disease, plantings, government programs and policies, competition, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. The Company enters into derivative and non derivative contracts with the primary objective of managing the Companys exposure to adverse price movements in the agricultural commodities used for, and produced in, our business operations. The Company will also use exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the volatility of the relationship between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contracts defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company, from time to time, enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold or net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. The Companys commodity position consists of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, related purchase and sales contracts, energy and freight contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts including contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements, net of sales. The fair value of the Companys commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing all of the commodity positions at quoted market prices for the period, where available, or utilizing a close proxy. The Company has established metrics to monitor the amount of market risk exposure, which consist of volumetric limits, and value at risk (VaR) limits. VaR measures the potential loss, at a 95% confidence level, that could be incurred over a one year period. Volumetric limits are monitored daily and VaR calculations and sensitivity analysis are monitored weekly. In addition to measuring the hypothetical loss resulting from an adverse two standard deviation move in market prices (assuming no correlations) over a one year period using VaR, sensitivity analysis is performed measuring the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in market prices. The highest, lowest, and average weekly position for each of the last two years together with the market risk from a hypothetical 10% adverse price change is as follows: 2011 2010 Long/(Short) Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest position $ 2,388 $ 239 $ 738 $ 74 Lowest position 368 37 (183 ) (18 ) Average position 1,644 164 216 22 The change in fair value of the average position for 2011 compared to 2010 was principally the result of changes in average quantities underlying the weekly commodity position. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) Currencies The Company conducts its business in over 75 countries. For the majority of the Companys subsidiaries located outside the United States, the local currency is the functional currency. To reduce the risks associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, the Company enters into currency exchange contracts to minimize its foreign currency position related to transactions denominated primarily in Euro, British pound, Canadian dollar, and Brazilian real currencies. These currencies represent the major functional or local currencies in which recurring business transactions occur. The Company does not use currency exchange contracts as hedges against amounts permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The currency exchange contracts used are forward contracts, swaps with banks, exchange traded futures contracts, and over the counter options. The changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $8.2 billion at June 30, 2011, and $6.4 billion at June 30, 2010. This increase is due to the appreciation of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar and an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The potential loss in fair value, which would principally be recognized in Other Comprehensive Income, resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $837 million and $639 million for 2011 and 2010, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 50 basis points decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2011 2010 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 9,108 $ 7,700 Excess of fair value over carrying value 842 870 Market risk 333 289 The increase in fair value of long term debt in 2011 resulted principally from the issuance of $1.5 billion of 18 month floating rate notes in February 2011. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Cost of products sold decreased 11% to $57.8 billion, due principally to decreased agricultural commodity costs including the impact of changes in LIFO inventory valuations which reduced cost of products sold by $42 million in 2010 compared to $517 million in 2009. Manufacturing expenses decreased 1% or $60 million, primarily due to lower energy, chemical and fuel costs partially offset by higher employee related costs and a $124 million increase in depreciation and amortization expense. In 2010, manufacturing expenses included additional costs associated with the Companys new greenfield plants. Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased 1% to $1.4 billion, due principally to decreased provisions for doubtful accounts partially offset by increased expenses for legal, professional, and commercial services. Equity earnings of unconsolidated affiliates increased $416 million to $561 million primarily due to the absence of a non cash charge of $275 million in 2009 related to currency derivative losses of the Companys equity investee, Gruma S.A.B. de C.V. Interest income declined $55 million to $126 million primarily due to lower average interest rates. Interest expense declined $47 million to $422 million primarily due to lower average interest rates. Other expense net increased $91 million due to pre tax charges of $75 million related to the early extinguishment of debt and $59 million for unrealized losses on interest rate swaps (for more information on the charges related to the early extinguishment of debt, see Note 8 in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data). Income taxes decreased $146 million due to a lower effective income tax rate partially offset by higher pretax earnings. The Companys effective income tax rate during 2010 was 25.8%. In 2009, the effective income tax rate was 32.5% which included $158 million of income tax charges related to the partial restructuring of the holding company structure through which the Company holds a portion of its equity investment in Wilmar. Excluding these Wilmar charges, the Companys effective income tax rate for 2009 was 26.2%. For more information concerning Wilmar tax matters see Note 13 in Item 8. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Operating profit by segment is as follows: 2010 2009 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing and Origination $ 818 $ 767 $ 51 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel and Other 291 265 26 Asia 291 248 43 Total Oilseeds Processing 1,400 1,280 120 Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 529 500 29 Bioproducts 193 (315 ) 508 Total Corn Processing 722 185 537 Agricultural Services Merchandising and Handling 583 832 (249 ) Transportation 85 162 (77 ) Total Agricultural Services 668 994 (326 ) Other Processing 403 51 352 Financial 46 (57 ) 103 Total Other 449 (6 ) 455 Total Segment Operating Profit 3,239 2,453 786 Corporate (see below) (654 ) 47 (701 ) Earnings Before Income Taxes $ 2,585 $ 2,500 $ 85 Corporate results are as follows: 2010 2009 Change (In millions) LIFO credit $ 42 $ 517 $ (475 ) Unallocated interest expense net (283 ) (192 ) (91 ) Unallocated corporate costs (266 ) (252 ) (14 ) Charges on early extinguishment of debt (75 ) (75 ) Unrealized losses on interest rate swaps (59 ) (59 ) Other (13 ) (26 ) 13 Total Corporate $ (654 ) $ 47 $ (701 ) Oilseeds Processing operating profit increased 9% to $1.4 billion. Crushing and origination results increased $51 million due to higher North American soybean crushing margins and favorable soft seed commodity positioning, partially offset by lower soybean crushing margins in Europe and South America. Refining, packaging, biodiesel and other operating profit increased $26 million due primarily to higher South American biodiesel results and improved margins in Europe. Oilseeds processing results in Asia increased $43 million to $291 million due principally to improved equity earnings of Wilmar. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Corn Processing operating profit increased $537 million to $722 million. Bioproducts operating profit increased $508 million due to improved ethanol and lysine sales volumes and improved ethanol margins resulting from lower net corn costs and decreased manufacturing costs. Ethanol sales volumes increased due to favorable gasoline blending economics and increased merchandising activity. Sweeteners and starches operating profit increased $29 million due to lower net corn and manufacturing costs due principally to lower energy and chemical prices. These lower manufacturing costs were partially offset by lower average selling prices. Agricultural Services operating profit decreased $326 million to $668 million. Merchandising and handling results decreased $249 million. Enhanced volume and margin opportunities created by 2009s volatile commodity markets and tight credit markets did not recur. Volumes and margins in 2010 benefited from strong demand for U.S. soybean exports following the short South American 2009 crop. Transportation results decreased $77 million due to lower barge freight rates and decreased barge utilization levels resulting from weaker U.S. economic conditions and the late, extended North American harvest. Other operating profit increased $455 million to $449 million. Other processing operating profit increased $352 million due to improved equity earnings from the Companys investment in Gruma, improved wheat milling margins, and improved cocoa processing results. Financial operating profit increased $103 million due primarily to the absence of losses experienced in 2009 from managed fund investments and captive insurance operations. Corporate results decreased $701 million. The effects of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations resulted in a credit of $42 million for the year ended June 30, 2010, compared to a credit of $517 million for the year ended June 30, 2009. Unallocated interest expense net increased $91 million reflecting a reduction in corporate interest income caused by lower short term interest rates and lower working capital requirements of the operating segments. In March 2010, the Company repurchased $500 million of long term debt which generated a $75 million pretax charge on early extinguishment of debt. In connection with a debt remarketing planned for 2011, the Company entered into interest rate swaps to fix the interest rate on a portion of the planned remarketing which resulted in $59 million of unrealized losses on interest rate swaps. Liquidity and Capital Resources A Company objective is to have sufficient liquidity, balance sheet strength, and financial flexibility to fund the operating and capital requirements of a capital intensive agricultural commodity based business. The primary source of funds to finance the Companys operations and capital expenditures is cash generated by operations. In addition, the Company maintains a commercial paper borrowing facility and has access to equity and debt capital from public and private sources in both U.S. and international markets. At June 30, 2011, the Company had $1.4 billion of cash, cash equivalents, and short term marketable securities and a current ratio, defined as current assets divided by current liabilities, of 2.1 to 1. Included in working capital is $7.1 billion of readily marketable commodity inventories. Cash used in operating activities was $2.3 billion for the year compared to cash provided by operating activities of $2.7 billion last year. Working capital increased in the current year due principally to higher agricultural commodity market prices. Cash used in investing activities of $1.7 billion, principally for capital expenditures, businesses acquired, and investments, was in line with last year. Cash provided by financing activities was $3.6 billion for the year compared to cash used in financing activities of $1.0 billion last year. Net borrowings increased primarily to fund higher working capital. Short term borrowings increased due principally to higher commercial paper borrowings, and long term borrowings increased primarily as a result of the issuance of $1.5 billion of 18 month floating rate notes in February 2011. In addition, the Company issued common stock and received $1.75 billion under the forward stock purchase component of the Companys Equity Units (see Note 8 in Item 8). At June 30, 2011, the Companys capital resources included net worth of $18.8 billion and lines of credit totaling $6.9 billion, of which $5.7 billion was unused. The Companys ratio of long term debt to total capital (the sum of the Companys long term debt and shareholders equity) was 30% at June 30, 2011 and 32% at June 30, 2010. This ratio is a measure of the Companys long term indebtedness and is an indicator of financial flexibility. Of the Companys total lines of credit, $4.6 billion support a commercial paper borrowing facility, against which there were $620 million of commercial paper outstanding at June 30, 2011. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) The Company has outstanding $1.15 billion principal amount of convertible senior notes. As of June 30, 2011, none of the conditions permitting conversion of these notes had been satisfied. The Company has purchased call options and warrants intended to reduce the potential shareholder dilution upon future conversion of the notes. As of June 30, 2011, the market price of the Companys common stock was not greater than the exercise price of the purchased call options or warrants related to the convertible senior notes. On July 1, 2011, the Company entered into a 364 day accounts receivable securitization facility. The facility provides the Company with up to $1.0 billion in liquidity. Under the facility, the Companys U.S. originated trade accounts receivable are sold to a wholly owned bankruptcy remote entity which then sells an undivided interest in the receivable as a collateral for any borrowings under the facility. Any borrowings under the facility will be recorded as secured borrowings. As of August 24, 2011, the Company had not used the facility. This facility expands the Companys access to liquidity through efficient use of its balance sheet assets. The Companys credit facilities and certain debentures require the Company to comply with specified financial and non financial covenants including maintenance of minimum tangible net worth as well as limitations related to incurring liens, secured debt, and certain other financing arrangements. The Company is in compliance with these covenants as of June 30, 2011. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements In the normal course of business, the Company enters into contracts and commitments which obligate the Company to make payments in the future. The following table sets forth the Companys significant future obligations by time period. Purchases include commodity based contracts entered into in the normal course of business, which are further described in Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, energy related purchase contracts entered into in the normal course of business, and other purchase obligations related to the Companys normal business activities. The following table does not include unrecognized income tax benefits of $79 million as of June 30, 2011 as the Company is unable to reasonably estimate the timing of settlement. Where applicable, information included in the Companys consolidated financial statements and notes is cross referenced in this table. Payments Due by Period Contractual Item 8 Note Less than 1 3 3 5 More than Obligations Reference Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years (In millions) Purchases Inventories $ 17,457 $ 16,593 $ 807 $ 43 $ 14 Energy 456 340 76 22 18 Other 398 168 186 35 9 Total purchases 18,311 17,101 1,069 100 41 Short term debt 1,875 1,875 Long term debt Note 8 8,444 178 2,875 46 5,345 Estimated interest payments 7,177 384 690 646 5,457 Operating leases Note 14 1,163 233 334 225 371 Estimated pension and other postretirement plan contributions (1) Note 15 167 55 19 21 72 Total $ 37,137 $ 19,826 $ 4,987 $ 1,038 $ 11,286 (1) Includes pension contributions of $47 million for fiscal 2012. The Company is unable to estimate the amount of pension contributions beyond fiscal year 2012. For more information concerning the Companys pension and other postretirement plans, see Note 15 in Item 8. At June 30, 2011, the Company estimates it will spend approximately $2.8 billion through calendar year 2014 to complete currently approved capital projects which are not included in the table above. The Company also has outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds of $620 million at June 30, 2011. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) In addition, the Company has entered into agreements, primarily debt guarantee agreements related to equity method investees, which could obligate the Company to make future payments. The Companys liability under these agreements arises only if the primary entity fails to perform its contractual obligation. The Company has collateral for a portion of these contingent obligations. At June 30, 2011, these contingent obligations totaled approximately $121 million. Amounts outstanding for the primary entity under these contingent obligations were $69 million at June 30, 2011. Critical Accounting Policies The process of preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the carrying values of the Companys assets and liabilities as well as the recognition of revenues and expenses. These estimates and judgments are based on the Companys historical experience and managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Certain of the Companys accounting policies are considered critical, as these policies are important to the depiction of the Companys financial statements and require significant or complex judgment by management. Management has discussed with the Companys Audit Committee the development, selection, disclosure, and application of these critical accounting policies. Following are the accounting policies management considers critical to the Companys financial statements. Inventories and Derivatives Certain of the Companys merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, forward fixed price purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts are valued at estimated market values. These merchandisable agricultural commodities are freely traded, have quoted market prices, and may be sold without significant additional processing. Management estimates market value based on exchange quoted prices, adjusted for differences in local markets. Changes in the market values of these inventories and contracts are recognized in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. If management used different methods or factors to estimate market value, amounts reported as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. Additionally, if market conditions change subsequent to year end, amounts reported in future periods as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. The Company, from time to time, uses derivative contracts designated as cash flow hedges to fix the purchase price of anticipated volumes of commodities to be purchased and processed in a future month, to fix the purchase price of the Companys anticipated natural gas requirements for certain production facilities, and to fix the sales price of anticipated volumes of ethanol. The change in the market value of such derivative contracts has historically been, and is expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold and net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. If it is determined that the derivative instruments used are no longer effective at offsetting changes in the price of the hedged item, then the changes in the market value of these exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts would be recorded in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. See Note 4 in Item 8 for additional information. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Employee Benefit Plans The Company provides substantially all U.S. employees and employees at certain international subsidiaries with pension benefits. Eligible U.S. employees with five or more years of service prior to January 1, 2009 participate in a defined benefit pension plan. Eligible U.S. employees hired on or after January 1, 2009 (and eligible salaried employees with less than five years of service prior to January 1, 2009) participate in a cash balance pension formula. The Company provides eligible U.S. employees who retire under qualifying conditions with access to postretirement health care, at full cost to the retiree (certain employees are grandfathered into subsidized coverage). In order to measure the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans, management makes several estimates and assumptions, including interest rates used to discount certain liabilities, rates of return on assets set aside to fund these plans, rates of compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and anticipated future health care costs. These estimates and assumptions are based on the Companys historical experience combined with managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Management also uses third party actuaries to assist in measuring the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans. If management used different estimates and assumptions regarding these plans, the funded status of the plans could vary significantly, and the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. See Note 15 in Item 8 for additional information. Income Taxes The Company frequently faces challenges from U.S. and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company records reserves for estimates of potential additional tax owed by the Company. As an example, a subsidiary of the Company received tax assessments in the amount of $665 million consisting of tax, penalty, and interest (adjusted for interest and variation in currency exchange rates) from the Brazilian Federal Revenue Service challenging the deductibility of commodity hedging losses incurred by the Company for tax years 2004, 2006 and 2007. The Company evaluated its tax position regarding these hedging transactions and concluded, based in part upon advice from Brazilian legal counsel, that it was appropriate to recognize the tax benefits of these deductions (See Note 13 in Item 8 for additional information). Deferred tax assets represent items to be used as tax deductions or credits in future tax returns, and the related tax benefit has already been recognized in the Companys income statement. The realization of the Companys deferred tax assets is dependent upon future taxable income in specific tax jurisdictions, the timing and amount of which are uncertain. The Company evaluates all available positive and negative evidence including estimated future reversals of existing temporary differences, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies, and recent financial results. Valuation allowances related to these deferred tax assets have been established to the extent the realization of the tax benefit is not likely. To the extent the Company were to favorably resolve matters for which accruals have been established or be required to pay amounts in excess of the aforementioned reserves, the Companys effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be impacted. Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and the Companys share of the undistributed earnings of affiliated corporate joint venture companies accounted for on the equity method amounting to approximately $8.2 billion at June 30, 2011, are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned factors may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and cash flows of the Companys assets in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its factories. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment, technology, and companies related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. Assets are written down after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these assets, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Goodwill and other intangible assets The Company accounts for its goodwill and other intangible assets in accordance with ASC Topic 350, Intangibles Goodwill and Other. Under this standard, goodwill and intangible assets deemed to have indefinite lives are not amortized but are subject to annual impairment tests. The Company evaluates goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year or whenever there are indicators that the carrying value of the assets may not be fully recoverable. Definite lived intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its impairment tests, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Valuation of Marketable Securities and Investments in Affiliates The Company classifies the majority of its marketable securities as available for sale and carries these securities at fair value. The Company applies the equity method for investments over which the Company has the ability to exercise significant influence. These investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings and are adjusted, where appropriate, for amortizable basis differences between the investment balance and the underlying net assets of the investee. For publicly traded securities, the fair value of the Companys investments is readily available based on quoted market prices. For non publicly traded securities, managements assessment of fair value is based on valuation methodologies including discounted cash flows and estimates of sales proceeds. In the event of a decline in fair value of an investment below carrying value, management is required to determine if the decline in fair value is other than temporary. In evaluating the nature of a decline in the fair value of an investment, management considers the market conditions, trends of earnings, discounted cash flows, trading volumes, and other key measures of the investment as well as the Companys ability and intent to hold the investment. When such a decline in value is deemed to be other than temporary, an impairment loss is recognized in the current period operating results to the extent of the decline. See Notes 5 and 6 in Item 8 for information regarding the Companys marketable securities and investments in affiliates. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these marketable securities, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in: commodity market prices as they relate to the Companys net commodity position, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and prices of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to factors such as changes in weather conditions, disease, plantings, government programs and policies, competition, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. The Company enters into derivative and non derivative contracts with the primary objective of managing the Companys exposure to adverse price movements in the agricultural commodities used for, and produced in, our business operations. The Company will also use exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the volatility of the relationship between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contracts defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company, from time to time, enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold or net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. The Companys commodity position consists of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, related purchase and sales contracts, energy and freight contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts including contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements, net of sales. The fair value of the Companys commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing all of the commodity positions at quoted market prices for the period, where available, or utilizing a close proxy. The Company has established metrics to monitor the amount of market risk exposure, which consist of volumetric limits, and value at risk (VaR) limits. VaR measures the potential loss, at a 95% confidence level, that could be incurred over a one year period. Volumetric limits are monitored daily and VaR calculations and sensitivity analysis are monitored weekly. In addition to measuring the hypothetical loss resulting from an adverse two standard deviation move in market prices (assuming no correlations) over a one year period using VaR, sensitivity analysis is performed measuring the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in market prices. The highest, lowest, and average weekly position for each of the last two years together with the market risk from a hypothetical 10% adverse price change is as follows: 2011 2010 Long/(Short) Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest position $ 2,388 $ 239 $ 738 $ 74 Lowest position 368 37 (183 ) (18 ) Average position 1,644 164 216 22 The change in fair value of the average position for 2011 compared to 2010 was principally the result of changes in average quantities underlying the weekly commodity position. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) Currencies The Company conducts its business in over 75 countries. For the majority of the Companys subsidiaries located outside the United States, the local currency is the functional currency. To reduce the risks associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, the Company enters into currency exchange contracts to minimize its foreign currency position related to transactions denominated primarily in Euro, British pound, Canadian dollar, and Brazilian real currencies. These currencies represent the major functional or local currencies in which recurring business transactions occur. The Company does not use currency exchange contracts as hedges against amounts permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The currency exchange contracts used are forward contracts, swaps with banks, exchange traded futures contracts, and over the counter options. The changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $8.2 billion at June 30, 2011, and $6.4 billion at June 30, 2010. This increase is due to the appreciation of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar and an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The potential loss in fair value, which would principally be recognized in Other Comprehensive Income, resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $837 million and $639 million for 2011 and 2010, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 50 basis points decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2011 2010 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 9,108 $ 7,700 Excess of fair value over carrying value 842 870 Market risk 333 289 The increase in fair value of long term debt in 2011 resulted principally from the issuance of $1.5 billion of 18 month floating rate notes in February 2011. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Operating profit by segment is as follows: 2010 2009 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing and Origination $ 818 $ 767 $ 51 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel and Other 291 265 26 Asia 291 248 43 Total Oilseeds Processing 1,400 1,280 120 Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 529 500 29 Bioproducts 193 (315 ) 508 Total Corn Processing 722 185 537 Agricultural Services Merchandising and Handling 583 832 (249 ) Transportation 85 162 (77 ) Total Agricultural Services 668 994 (326 ) Other Processing 403 51 352 Financial 46 (57 ) 103 Total Other 449 (6 ) 455 Total Segment Operating Profit 3,239 2,453 786 Corporate (see below) (654 ) 47 (701 ) Earnings Before Income Taxes $ 2,585 $ 2,500 $ 85 Corporate results are as follows: 2010 2009 Change (In millions) LIFO credit $ 42 $ 517 $ (475 ) Unallocated interest expense net (283 ) (192 ) (91 ) Unallocated corporate costs (266 ) (252 ) (14 ) Charges on early extinguishment of debt (75 ) (75 ) Unrealized losses on interest rate swaps (59 ) (59 ) Other (13 ) (26 ) 13 Total Corporate $ (654 ) $ 47 $ (701 ) Oilseeds Processing operating profit increased 9% to $1.4 billion. Crushing and origination results increased $51 million due to higher North American soybean crushing margins and favorable soft seed commodity positioning, partially offset by lower soybean crushing margins in Europe and South America. Refining, packaging, biodiesel and other operating profit increased $26 million due primarily to higher South American biodiesel results and improved margins in Europe. Oilseeds processing results in Asia increased $43 million to $291 million due principally to improved equity earnings of Wilmar. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Corn Processing operating profit increased $537 million to $722 million. Bioproducts operating profit increased $508 million due to improved ethanol and lysine sales volumes and improved ethanol margins resulting from lower net corn costs and decreased manufacturing costs. Ethanol sales volumes increased due to favorable gasoline blending economics and increased merchandising activity. Sweeteners and starches operating profit increased $29 million due to lower net corn and manufacturing costs due principally to lower energy and chemical prices. These lower manufacturing costs were partially offset by lower average selling prices. Agricultural Services operating profit decreased $326 million to $668 million. Merchandising and handling results decreased $249 million. Enhanced volume and margin opportunities created by 2009s volatile commodity markets and tight credit markets did not recur. Volumes and margins in 2010 benefited from strong demand for U.S. soybean exports following the short South American 2009 crop. Transportation results decreased $77 million due to lower barge freight rates and decreased barge utilization levels resulting from weaker U.S. economic conditions and the late, extended North American harvest. Other operating profit increased $455 million to $449 million. Other processing operating profit increased $352 million due to improved equity earnings from the Companys investment in Gruma, improved wheat milling margins, and improved cocoa processing results. Financial operating profit increased $103 million due primarily to the absence of losses experienced in 2009 from managed fund investments and captive insurance operations. Corporate results decreased $701 million. The effects of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations resulted in a credit of $42 million for the year ended June 30, 2010, compared to a credit of $517 million for the year ended June 30, 2009. Unallocated interest expense net increased $91 million reflecting a reduction in corporate interest income caused by lower short term interest rates and lower working capital requirements of the operating segments. In March 2010, the Company repurchased $500 million of long term debt which generated a $75 million pretax charge on early extinguishment of debt. In connection with a debt remarketing planned for 2011, the Company entered into interest rate swaps to fix the interest rate on a portion of the planned remarketing which resulted in $59 million of unrealized losses on interest rate swaps. Liquidity and Capital Resources A Company objective is to have sufficient liquidity, balance sheet strength, and financial flexibility to fund the operating and capital requirements of a capital intensive agricultural commodity based business. The primary source of funds to finance the Companys operations and capital expenditures is cash generated by operations. In addition, the Company maintains a commercial paper borrowing facility and has access to equity and debt capital from public and private sources in both U.S. and international markets. At June 30, 2011, the Company had $1.4 billion of cash, cash equivalents, and short term marketable securities and a current ratio, defined as current assets divided by current liabilities, of 2.1 to 1. Included in working capital is $7.1 billion of readily marketable commodity inventories. Cash used in operating activities was $2.3 billion for the year compared to cash provided by operating activities of $2.7 billion last year. Working capital increased in the current year due principally to higher agricultural commodity market prices. Cash used in investing activities of $1.7 billion, principally for capital expenditures, businesses acquired, and investments, was in line with last year. Cash provided by financing activities was $3.6 billion for the year compared to cash used in financing activities of $1.0 billion last year. Net borrowings increased primarily to fund higher working capital. Short term borrowings increased due principally to higher commercial paper borrowings, and long term borrowings increased primarily as a result of the issuance of $1.5 billion of 18 month floating rate notes in February 2011. In addition, the Company issued common stock and received $1.75 billion under the forward stock purchase component of the Companys Equity Units (see Note 8 in Item 8). At June 30, 2011, the Companys capital resources included net worth of $18.8 billion and lines of credit totaling $6.9 billion, of which $5.7 billion was unused. The Companys ratio of long term debt to total capital (the sum of the Companys long term debt and shareholders equity) was 30% at June 30, 2011 and 32% at June 30, 2010. This ratio is a measure of the Companys long term indebtedness and is an indicator of financial flexibility. Of the Companys total lines of credit, $4.6 billion support a commercial paper borrowing facility, against which there were $620 million of commercial paper outstanding at June 30, 2011. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) The Company has outstanding $1.15 billion principal amount of convertible senior notes. As of June 30, 2011, none of the conditions permitting conversion of these notes had been satisfied. The Company has purchased call options and warrants intended to reduce the potential shareholder dilution upon future conversion of the notes. As of June 30, 2011, the market price of the Companys common stock was not greater than the exercise price of the purchased call options or warrants related to the convertible senior notes. On July 1, 2011, the Company entered into a 364 day accounts receivable securitization facility. The facility provides the Company with up to $1.0 billion in liquidity. Under the facility, the Companys U.S. originated trade accounts receivable are sold to a wholly owned bankruptcy remote entity which then sells an undivided interest in the receivable as a collateral for any borrowings under the facility. Any borrowings under the facility will be recorded as secured borrowings. As of August 24, 2011, the Company had not used the facility. This facility expands the Companys access to liquidity through efficient use of its balance sheet assets. The Companys credit facilities and certain debentures require the Company to comply with specified financial and non financial covenants including maintenance of minimum tangible net worth as well as limitations related to incurring liens, secured debt, and certain other financing arrangements. The Company is in compliance with these covenants as of June 30, 2011. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements In the normal course of business, the Company enters into contracts and commitments which obligate the Company to make payments in the future. The following table sets forth the Companys significant future obligations by time period. Purchases include commodity based contracts entered into in the normal course of business, which are further described in Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, energy related purchase contracts entered into in the normal course of business, and other purchase obligations related to the Companys normal business activities. The following table does not include unrecognized income tax benefits of $79 million as of June 30, 2011 as the Company is unable to reasonably estimate the timing of settlement. Where applicable, information included in the Companys consolidated financial statements and notes is cross referenced in this table. Payments Due by Period Contractual Item 8 Note Less than 1 3 3 5 More than Obligations Reference Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years (In millions) Purchases Inventories $ 17,457 $ 16,593 $ 807 $ 43 $ 14 Energy 456 340 76 22 18 Other 398 168 186 35 9 Total purchases 18,311 17,101 1,069 100 41 Short term debt 1,875 1,875 Long term debt Note 8 8,444 178 2,875 46 5,345 Estimated interest payments 7,177 384 690 646 5,457 Operating leases Note 14 1,163 233 334 225 371 Estimated pension and other postretirement plan contributions (1) Note 15 167 55 19 21 72 Total $ 37,137 $ 19,826 $ 4,987 $ 1,038 $ 11,286 (1) Includes pension contributions of $47 million for fiscal 2012. The Company is unable to estimate the amount of pension contributions beyond fiscal year 2012. For more information concerning the Companys pension and other postretirement plans, see Note 15 in Item 8. At June 30, 2011, the Company estimates it will spend approximately $2.8 billion through calendar year 2014 to complete currently approved capital projects which are not included in the table above. The Company also has outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds of $620 million at June 30, 2011. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) In addition, the Company has entered into agreements, primarily debt guarantee agreements related to equity method investees, which could obligate the Company to make future payments. The Companys liability under these agreements arises only if the primary entity fails to perform its contractual obligation. The Company has collateral for a portion of these contingent obligations. At June 30, 2011, these contingent obligations totaled approximately $121 million. Amounts outstanding for the primary entity under these contingent obligations were $69 million at June 30, 2011. Critical Accounting Policies The process of preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the carrying values of the Companys assets and liabilities as well as the recognition of revenues and expenses. These estimates and judgments are based on the Companys historical experience and managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Certain of the Companys accounting policies are considered critical, as these policies are important to the depiction of the Companys financial statements and require significant or complex judgment by management. Management has discussed with the Companys Audit Committee the development, selection, disclosure, and application of these critical accounting policies. Following are the accounting policies management considers critical to the Companys financial statements. Inventories and Derivatives Certain of the Companys merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, forward fixed price purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts are valued at estimated market values. These merchandisable agricultural commodities are freely traded, have quoted market prices, and may be sold without significant additional processing. Management estimates market value based on exchange quoted prices, adjusted for differences in local markets. Changes in the market values of these inventories and contracts are recognized in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. If management used different methods or factors to estimate market value, amounts reported as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. Additionally, if market conditions change subsequent to year end, amounts reported in future periods as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. The Company, from time to time, uses derivative contracts designated as cash flow hedges to fix the purchase price of anticipated volumes of commodities to be purchased and processed in a future month, to fix the purchase price of the Companys anticipated natural gas requirements for certain production facilities, and to fix the sales price of anticipated volumes of ethanol. The change in the market value of such derivative contracts has historically been, and is expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold and net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. If it is determined that the derivative instruments used are no longer effective at offsetting changes in the price of the hedged item, then the changes in the market value of these exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts would be recorded in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. See Note 4 in Item 8 for additional information. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Employee Benefit Plans The Company provides substantially all U.S. employees and employees at certain international subsidiaries with pension benefits. Eligible U.S. employees with five or more years of service prior to January 1, 2009 participate in a defined benefit pension plan. Eligible U.S. employees hired on or after January 1, 2009 (and eligible salaried employees with less than five years of service prior to January 1, 2009) participate in a cash balance pension formula. The Company provides eligible U.S. employees who retire under qualifying conditions with access to postretirement health care, at full cost to the retiree (certain employees are grandfathered into subsidized coverage). In order to measure the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans, management makes several estimates and assumptions, including interest rates used to discount certain liabilities, rates of return on assets set aside to fund these plans, rates of compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and anticipated future health care costs. These estimates and assumptions are based on the Companys historical experience combined with managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Management also uses third party actuaries to assist in measuring the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans. If management used different estimates and assumptions regarding these plans, the funded status of the plans could vary significantly, and the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. See Note 15 in Item 8 for additional information. Income Taxes The Company frequently faces challenges from U.S. and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company records reserves for estimates of potential additional tax owed by the Company. As an example, a subsidiary of the Company received tax assessments in the amount of $665 million consisting of tax, penalty, and interest (adjusted for interest and variation in currency exchange rates) from the Brazilian Federal Revenue Service challenging the deductibility of commodity hedging losses incurred by the Company for tax years 2004, 2006 and 2007. The Company evaluated its tax position regarding these hedging transactions and concluded, based in part upon advice from Brazilian legal counsel, that it was appropriate to recognize the tax benefits of these deductions (See Note 13 in Item 8 for additional information). Deferred tax assets represent items to be used as tax deductions or credits in future tax returns, and the related tax benefit has already been recognized in the Companys income statement. The realization of the Companys deferred tax assets is dependent upon future taxable income in specific tax jurisdictions, the timing and amount of which are uncertain. The Company evaluates all available positive and negative evidence including estimated future reversals of existing temporary differences, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies, and recent financial results. Valuation allowances related to these deferred tax assets have been established to the extent the realization of the tax benefit is not likely. To the extent the Company were to favorably resolve matters for which accruals have been established or be required to pay amounts in excess of the aforementioned reserves, the Companys effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be impacted. Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and the Companys share of the undistributed earnings of affiliated corporate joint venture companies accounted for on the equity method amounting to approximately $8.2 billion at June 30, 2011, are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned factors may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and cash flows of the Companys assets in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its factories. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment, technology, and companies related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. Assets are written down after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these assets, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Goodwill and other intangible assets The Company accounts for its goodwill and other intangible assets in accordance with ASC Topic 350, Intangibles Goodwill and Other. Under this standard, goodwill and intangible assets deemed to have indefinite lives are not amortized but are subject to annual impairment tests. The Company evaluates goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year or whenever there are indicators that the carrying value of the assets may not be fully recoverable. Definite lived intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its impairment tests, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Valuation of Marketable Securities and Investments in Affiliates The Company classifies the majority of its marketable securities as available for sale and carries these securities at fair value. The Company applies the equity method for investments over which the Company has the ability to exercise significant influence. These investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings and are adjusted, where appropriate, for amortizable basis differences between the investment balance and the underlying net assets of the investee. For publicly traded securities, the fair value of the Companys investments is readily available based on quoted market prices. For non publicly traded securities, managements assessment of fair value is based on valuation methodologies including discounted cash flows and estimates of sales proceeds. In the event of a decline in fair value of an investment below carrying value, management is required to determine if the decline in fair value is other than temporary. In evaluating the nature of a decline in the fair value of an investment, management considers the market conditions, trends of earnings, discounted cash flows, trading volumes, and other key measures of the investment as well as the Companys ability and intent to hold the investment. When such a decline in value is deemed to be other than temporary, an impairment loss is recognized in the current period operating results to the extent of the decline. See Notes 5 and 6 in Item 8 for information regarding the Companys marketable securities and investments in affiliates. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these marketable securities, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in: commodity market prices as they relate to the Companys net commodity position, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and prices of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to factors such as changes in weather conditions, disease, plantings, government programs and policies, competition, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. The Company enters into derivative and non derivative contracts with the primary objective of managing the Companys exposure to adverse price movements in the agricultural commodities used for, and produced in, our business operations. The Company will also use exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the volatility of the relationship between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contracts defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company, from time to time, enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold or net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. The Companys commodity position consists of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, related purchase and sales contracts, energy and freight contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts including contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements, net of sales. The fair value of the Companys commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing all of the commodity positions at quoted market prices for the period, where available, or utilizing a close proxy. The Company has established metrics to monitor the amount of market risk exposure, which consist of volumetric limits, and value at risk (VaR) limits. VaR measures the potential loss, at a 95% confidence level, that could be incurred over a one year period. Volumetric limits are monitored daily and VaR calculations and sensitivity analysis are monitored weekly. In addition to measuring the hypothetical loss resulting from an adverse two standard deviation move in market prices (assuming no correlations) over a one year period using VaR, sensitivity analysis is performed measuring the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in market prices. The highest, lowest, and average weekly position for each of the last two years together with the market risk from a hypothetical 10% adverse price change is as follows: 2011 2010 Long/(Short) Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest position $ 2,388 $ 239 $ 738 $ 74 Lowest position 368 37 (183 ) (18 ) Average position 1,644 164 216 22 The change in fair value of the average position for 2011 compared to 2010 was principally the result of changes in average quantities underlying the weekly commodity position. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) Currencies The Company conducts its business in over 75 countries. For the majority of the Companys subsidiaries located outside the United States, the local currency is the functional currency. To reduce the risks associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, the Company enters into currency exchange contracts to minimize its foreign currency position related to transactions denominated primarily in Euro, British pound, Canadian dollar, and Brazilian real currencies. These currencies represent the major functional or local currencies in which recurring business transactions occur. The Company does not use currency exchange contracts as hedges against amounts permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The currency exchange contracts used are forward contracts, swaps with banks, exchange traded futures contracts, and over the counter options. The changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $8.2 billion at June 30, 2011, and $6.4 billion at June 30, 2010. This increase is due to the appreciation of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar and an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The potential loss in fair value, which would principally be recognized in Other Comprehensive Income, resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $837 million and $639 million for 2011 and 2010, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 50 basis points decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2011 2010 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 9,108 $ 7,700 Excess of fair value over carrying value 842 870 Market risk 333 289 The increase in fair value of long term debt in 2011 resulted principally from the issuance of $1.5 billion of 18 month floating rate notes in February 2011. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Corn Processing operating profit increased $537 million to $722 million. Bioproducts operating profit increased $508 million due to improved ethanol and lysine sales volumes and improved ethanol margins resulting from lower net corn costs and decreased manufacturing costs. Ethanol sales volumes increased due to favorable gasoline blending economics and increased merchandising activity. Sweeteners and starches operating profit increased $29 million due to lower net corn and manufacturing costs due principally to lower energy and chemical prices. These lower manufacturing costs were partially offset by lower average selling prices. Agricultural Services operating profit decreased $326 million to $668 million. Merchandising and handling results decreased $249 million. Enhanced volume and margin opportunities created by 2009s volatile commodity markets and tight credit markets did not recur. Volumes and margins in 2010 benefited from strong demand for U.S. soybean exports following the short South American 2009 crop. Transportation results decreased $77 million due to lower barge freight rates and decreased barge utilization levels resulting from weaker U.S. economic conditions and the late, extended North American harvest. Other operating profit increased $455 million to $449 million. Other processing operating profit increased $352 million due to improved equity earnings from the Companys investment in Gruma, improved wheat milling margins, and improved cocoa processing results. Financial operating profit increased $103 million due primarily to the absence of losses experienced in 2009 from managed fund investments and captive insurance operations. Corporate results decreased $701 million. The effects of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations resulted in a credit of $42 million for the year ended June 30, 2010, compared to a credit of $517 million for the year ended June 30, 2009. Unallocated interest expense net increased $91 million reflecting a reduction in corporate interest income caused by lower short term interest rates and lower working capital requirements of the operating segments. In March 2010, the Company repurchased $500 million of long term debt which generated a $75 million pretax charge on early extinguishment of debt. In connection with a debt remarketing planned for 2011, the Company entered into interest rate swaps to fix the interest rate on a portion of the planned remarketing which resulted in $59 million of unrealized losses on interest rate swaps. Liquidity and Capital Resources A Company objective is to have sufficient liquidity, balance sheet strength, and financial flexibility to fund the operating and capital requirements of a capital intensive agricultural commodity based business. The primary source of funds to finance the Companys operations and capital expenditures is cash generated by operations. In addition, the Company maintains a commercial paper borrowing facility and has access to equity and debt capital from public and private sources in both U.S. and international markets. At June 30, 2011, the Company had $1.4 billion of cash, cash equivalents, and short term marketable securities and a current ratio, defined as current assets divided by current liabilities, of 2.1 to 1. Included in working capital is $7.1 billion of readily marketable commodity inventories. Cash used in operating activities was $2.3 billion for the year compared to cash provided by operating activities of $2.7 billion last year. Working capital increased in the current year due principally to higher agricultural commodity market prices. Cash used in investing activities of $1.7 billion, principally for capital expenditures, businesses acquired, and investments, was in line with last year. Cash provided by financing activities was $3.6 billion for the year compared to cash used in financing activities of $1.0 billion last year. Net borrowings increased primarily to fund higher working capital. Short term borrowings increased due principally to higher commercial paper borrowings, and long term borrowings increased primarily as a result of the issuance of $1.5 billion of 18 month floating rate notes in February 2011. In addition, the Company issued common stock and received $1.75 billion under the forward stock purchase component of the Companys Equity Units (see Note 8 in Item 8). At June 30, 2011, the Companys capital resources included net worth of $18.8 billion and lines of credit totaling $6.9 billion, of which $5.7 billion was unused. The Companys ratio of long term debt to total capital (the sum of the Companys long term debt and shareholders equity) was 30% at June 30, 2011 and 32% at June 30, 2010. This ratio is a measure of the Companys long term indebtedness and is an indicator of financial flexibility. Of the Companys total lines of credit, $4.6 billion support a commercial paper borrowing facility, against which there were $620 million of commercial paper outstanding at June 30, 2011. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) The Company has outstanding $1.15 billion principal amount of convertible senior notes. As of June 30, 2011, none of the conditions permitting conversion of these notes had been satisfied. The Company has purchased call options and warrants intended to reduce the potential shareholder dilution upon future conversion of the notes. As of June 30, 2011, the market price of the Companys common stock was not greater than the exercise price of the purchased call options or warrants related to the convertible senior notes. On July 1, 2011, the Company entered into a 364 day accounts receivable securitization facility. The facility provides the Company with up to $1.0 billion in liquidity. Under the facility, the Companys U.S. originated trade accounts receivable are sold to a wholly owned bankruptcy remote entity which then sells an undivided interest in the receivable as a collateral for any borrowings under the facility. Any borrowings under the facility will be recorded as secured borrowings. As of August 24, 2011, the Company had not used the facility. This facility expands the Companys access to liquidity through efficient use of its balance sheet assets. The Companys credit facilities and certain debentures require the Company to comply with specified financial and non financial covenants including maintenance of minimum tangible net worth as well as limitations related to incurring liens, secured debt, and certain other financing arrangements. The Company is in compliance with these covenants as of June 30, 2011. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements In the normal course of business, the Company enters into contracts and commitments which obligate the Company to make payments in the future. The following table sets forth the Companys significant future obligations by time period. Purchases include commodity based contracts entered into in the normal course of business, which are further described in Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, energy related purchase contracts entered into in the normal course of business, and other purchase obligations related to the Companys normal business activities. The following table does not include unrecognized income tax benefits of $79 million as of June 30, 2011 as the Company is unable to reasonably estimate the timing of settlement. Where applicable, information included in the Companys consolidated financial statements and notes is cross referenced in this table. Payments Due by Period Contractual Item 8 Note Less than 1 3 3 5 More than Obligations Reference Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years (In millions) Purchases Inventories $ 17,457 $ 16,593 $ 807 $ 43 $ 14 Energy 456 340 76 22 18 Other 398 168 186 35 9 Total purchases 18,311 17,101 1,069 100 41 Short term debt 1,875 1,875 Long term debt Note 8 8,444 178 2,875 46 5,345 Estimated interest payments 7,177 384 690 646 5,457 Operating leases Note 14 1,163 233 334 225 371 Estimated pension and other postretirement plan contributions (1) Note 15 167 55 19 21 72 Total $ 37,137 $ 19,826 $ 4,987 $ 1,038 $ 11,286 (1) Includes pension contributions of $47 million for fiscal 2012. The Company is unable to estimate the amount of pension contributions beyond fiscal year 2012. For more information concerning the Companys pension and other postretirement plans, see Note 15 in Item 8. At June 30, 2011, the Company estimates it will spend approximately $2.8 billion through calendar year 2014 to complete currently approved capital projects which are not included in the table above. The Company also has outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds of $620 million at June 30, 2011. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) In addition, the Company has entered into agreements, primarily debt guarantee agreements related to equity method investees, which could obligate the Company to make future payments. The Companys liability under these agreements arises only if the primary entity fails to perform its contractual obligation. The Company has collateral for a portion of these contingent obligations. At June 30, 2011, these contingent obligations totaled approximately $121 million. Amounts outstanding for the primary entity under these contingent obligations were $69 million at June 30, 2011. Critical Accounting Policies The process of preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the carrying values of the Companys assets and liabilities as well as the recognition of revenues and expenses. These estimates and judgments are based on the Companys historical experience and managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Certain of the Companys accounting policies are considered critical, as these policies are important to the depiction of the Companys financial statements and require significant or complex judgment by management. Management has discussed with the Companys Audit Committee the development, selection, disclosure, and application of these critical accounting policies. Following are the accounting policies management considers critical to the Companys financial statements. Inventories and Derivatives Certain of the Companys merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, forward fixed price purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts are valued at estimated market values. These merchandisable agricultural commodities are freely traded, have quoted market prices, and may be sold without significant additional processing. Management estimates market value based on exchange quoted prices, adjusted for differences in local markets. Changes in the market values of these inventories and contracts are recognized in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. If management used different methods or factors to estimate market value, amounts reported as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. Additionally, if market conditions change subsequent to year end, amounts reported in future periods as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. The Company, from time to time, uses derivative contracts designated as cash flow hedges to fix the purchase price of anticipated volumes of commodities to be purchased and processed in a future month, to fix the purchase price of the Companys anticipated natural gas requirements for certain production facilities, and to fix the sales price of anticipated volumes of ethanol. The change in the market value of such derivative contracts has historically been, and is expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold and net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. If it is determined that the derivative instruments used are no longer effective at offsetting changes in the price of the hedged item, then the changes in the market value of these exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts would be recorded in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. See Note 4 in Item 8 for additional information. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Employee Benefit Plans The Company provides substantially all U.S. employees and employees at certain international subsidiaries with pension benefits. Eligible U.S. employees with five or more years of service prior to January 1, 2009 participate in a defined benefit pension plan. Eligible U.S. employees hired on or after January 1, 2009 (and eligible salaried employees with less than five years of service prior to January 1, 2009) participate in a cash balance pension formula. The Company provides eligible U.S. employees who retire under qualifying conditions with access to postretirement health care, at full cost to the retiree (certain employees are grandfathered into subsidized coverage). In order to measure the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans, management makes several estimates and assumptions, including interest rates used to discount certain liabilities, rates of return on assets set aside to fund these plans, rates of compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and anticipated future health care costs. These estimates and assumptions are based on the Companys historical experience combined with managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Management also uses third party actuaries to assist in measuring the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans. If management used different estimates and assumptions regarding these plans, the funded status of the plans could vary significantly, and the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. See Note 15 in Item 8 for additional information. Income Taxes The Company frequently faces challenges from U.S. and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company records reserves for estimates of potential additional tax owed by the Company. As an example, a subsidiary of the Company received tax assessments in the amount of $665 million consisting of tax, penalty, and interest (adjusted for interest and variation in currency exchange rates) from the Brazilian Federal Revenue Service challenging the deductibility of commodity hedging losses incurred by the Company for tax years 2004, 2006 and 2007. The Company evaluated its tax position regarding these hedging transactions and concluded, based in part upon advice from Brazilian legal counsel, that it was appropriate to recognize the tax benefits of these deductions (See Note 13 in Item 8 for additional information). Deferred tax assets represent items to be used as tax deductions or credits in future tax returns, and the related tax benefit has already been recognized in the Companys income statement. The realization of the Companys deferred tax assets is dependent upon future taxable income in specific tax jurisdictions, the timing and amount of which are uncertain. The Company evaluates all available positive and negative evidence including estimated future reversals of existing temporary differences, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies, and recent financial results. Valuation allowances related to these deferred tax assets have been established to the extent the realization of the tax benefit is not likely. To the extent the Company were to favorably resolve matters for which accruals have been established or be required to pay amounts in excess of the aforementioned reserves, the Companys effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be impacted. Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and the Companys share of the undistributed earnings of affiliated corporate joint venture companies accounted for on the equity method amounting to approximately $8.2 billion at June 30, 2011, are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned factors may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and cash flows of the Companys assets in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its factories. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment, technology, and companies related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. Assets are written down after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these assets, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Goodwill and other intangible assets The Company accounts for its goodwill and other intangible assets in accordance with ASC Topic 350, Intangibles Goodwill and Other. Under this standard, goodwill and intangible assets deemed to have indefinite lives are not amortized but are subject to annual impairment tests. The Company evaluates goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year or whenever there are indicators that the carrying value of the assets may not be fully recoverable. Definite lived intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its impairment tests, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Valuation of Marketable Securities and Investments in Affiliates The Company classifies the majority of its marketable securities as available for sale and carries these securities at fair value. The Company applies the equity method for investments over which the Company has the ability to exercise significant influence. These investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings and are adjusted, where appropriate, for amortizable basis differences between the investment balance and the underlying net assets of the investee. For publicly traded securities, the fair value of the Companys investments is readily available based on quoted market prices. For non publicly traded securities, managements assessment of fair value is based on valuation methodologies including discounted cash flows and estimates of sales proceeds. In the event of a decline in fair value of an investment below carrying value, management is required to determine if the decline in fair value is other than temporary. In evaluating the nature of a decline in the fair value of an investment, management considers the market conditions, trends of earnings, discounted cash flows, trading volumes, and other key measures of the investment as well as the Companys ability and intent to hold the investment. When such a decline in value is deemed to be other than temporary, an impairment loss is recognized in the current period operating results to the extent of the decline. See Notes 5 and 6 in Item 8 for information regarding the Companys marketable securities and investments in affiliates. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these marketable securities, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in: commodity market prices as they relate to the Companys net commodity position, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and prices of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to factors such as changes in weather conditions, disease, plantings, government programs and policies, competition, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. The Company enters into derivative and non derivative contracts with the primary objective of managing the Companys exposure to adverse price movements in the agricultural commodities used for, and produced in, our business operations. The Company will also use exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the volatility of the relationship between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contracts defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company, from time to time, enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold or net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. The Companys commodity position consists of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, related purchase and sales contracts, energy and freight contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts including contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements, net of sales. The fair value of the Companys commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing all of the commodity positions at quoted market prices for the period, where available, or utilizing a close proxy. The Company has established metrics to monitor the amount of market risk exposure, which consist of volumetric limits, and value at risk (VaR) limits. VaR measures the potential loss, at a 95% confidence level, that could be incurred over a one year period. Volumetric limits are monitored daily and VaR calculations and sensitivity analysis are monitored weekly. In addition to measuring the hypothetical loss resulting from an adverse two standard deviation move in market prices (assuming no correlations) over a one year period using VaR, sensitivity analysis is performed measuring the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in market prices. The highest, lowest, and average weekly position for each of the last two years together with the market risk from a hypothetical 10% adverse price change is as follows: 2011 2010 Long/(Short) Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest position $ 2,388 $ 239 $ 738 $ 74 Lowest position 368 37 (183 ) (18 ) Average position 1,644 164 216 22 The change in fair value of the average position for 2011 compared to 2010 was principally the result of changes in average quantities underlying the weekly commodity position. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) Currencies The Company conducts its business in over 75 countries. For the majority of the Companys subsidiaries located outside the United States, the local currency is the functional currency. To reduce the risks associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, the Company enters into currency exchange contracts to minimize its foreign currency position related to transactions denominated primarily in Euro, British pound, Canadian dollar, and Brazilian real currencies. These currencies represent the major functional or local currencies in which recurring business transactions occur. The Company does not use currency exchange contracts as hedges against amounts permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The currency exchange contracts used are forward contracts, swaps with banks, exchange traded futures contracts, and over the counter options. The changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $8.2 billion at June 30, 2011, and $6.4 billion at June 30, 2010. This increase is due to the appreciation of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar and an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The potential loss in fair value, which would principally be recognized in Other Comprehensive Income, resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $837 million and $639 million for 2011 and 2010, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 50 basis points decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2011 2010 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 9,108 $ 7,700 Excess of fair value over carrying value 842 870 Market risk 333 289 The increase in fair value of long term debt in 2011 resulted principally from the issuance of $1.5 billion of 18 month floating rate notes in February 2011. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) The Company has outstanding $1.15 billion principal amount of convertible senior notes. As of June 30, 2011, none of the conditions permitting conversion of these notes had been satisfied. The Company has purchased call options and warrants intended to reduce the potential shareholder dilution upon future conversion of the notes. As of June 30, 2011, the market price of the Companys common stock was not greater than the exercise price of the purchased call options or warrants related to the convertible senior notes. On July 1, 2011, the Company entered into a 364 day accounts receivable securitization facility. The facility provides the Company with up to $1.0 billion in liquidity. Under the facility, the Companys U.S. originated trade accounts receivable are sold to a wholly owned bankruptcy remote entity which then sells an undivided interest in the receivable as a collateral for any borrowings under the facility. Any borrowings under the facility will be recorded as secured borrowings. As of August 24, 2011, the Company had not used the facility. This facility expands the Companys access to liquidity through efficient use of its balance sheet assets. The Companys credit facilities and certain debentures require the Company to comply with specified financial and non financial covenants including maintenance of minimum tangible net worth as well as limitations related to incurring liens, secured debt, and certain other financing arrangements. The Company is in compliance with these covenants as of June 30, 2011. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements In the normal course of business, the Company enters into contracts and commitments which obligate the Company to make payments in the future. The following table sets forth the Companys significant future obligations by time period. Purchases include commodity based contracts entered into in the normal course of business, which are further described in Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, energy related purchase contracts entered into in the normal course of business, and other purchase obligations related to the Companys normal business activities. The following table does not include unrecognized income tax benefits of $79 million as of June 30, 2011 as the Company is unable to reasonably estimate the timing of settlement. Where applicable, information included in the Companys consolidated financial statements and notes is cross referenced in this table. Payments Due by Period Contractual Item 8 Note Less than 1 3 3 5 More than Obligations Reference Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years (In millions) Purchases Inventories $ 17,457 $ 16,593 $ 807 $ 43 $ 14 Energy 456 340 76 22 18 Other 398 168 186 35 9 Total purchases 18,311 17,101 1,069 100 41 Short term debt 1,875 1,875 Long term debt Note 8 8,444 178 2,875 46 5,345 Estimated interest payments 7,177 384 690 646 5,457 Operating leases Note 14 1,163 233 334 225 371 Estimated pension and other postretirement plan contributions (1) Note 15 167 55 19 21 72 Total $ 37,137 $ 19,826 $ 4,987 $ 1,038 $ 11,286 (1) Includes pension contributions of $47 million for fiscal 2012. The Company is unable to estimate the amount of pension contributions beyond fiscal year 2012. For more information concerning the Companys pension and other postretirement plans, see Note 15 in Item 8. At June 30, 2011, the Company estimates it will spend approximately $2.8 billion through calendar year 2014 to complete currently approved capital projects which are not included in the table above. The Company also has outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds of $620 million at June 30, 2011. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) In addition, the Company has entered into agreements, primarily debt guarantee agreements related to equity method investees, which could obligate the Company to make future payments. The Companys liability under these agreements arises only if the primary entity fails to perform its contractual obligation. The Company has collateral for a portion of these contingent obligations. At June 30, 2011, these contingent obligations totaled approximately $121 million. Amounts outstanding for the primary entity under these contingent obligations were $69 million at June 30, 2011. Critical Accounting Policies The process of preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the carrying values of the Companys assets and liabilities as well as the recognition of revenues and expenses. These estimates and judgments are based on the Companys historical experience and managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Certain of the Companys accounting policies are considered critical, as these policies are important to the depiction of the Companys financial statements and require significant or complex judgment by management. Management has discussed with the Companys Audit Committee the development, selection, disclosure, and application of these critical accounting policies. Following are the accounting policies management considers critical to the Companys financial statements. Inventories and Derivatives Certain of the Companys merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, forward fixed price purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts are valued at estimated market values. These merchandisable agricultural commodities are freely traded, have quoted market prices, and may be sold without significant additional processing. Management estimates market value based on exchange quoted prices, adjusted for differences in local markets. Changes in the market values of these inventories and contracts are recognized in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. If management used different methods or factors to estimate market value, amounts reported as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. Additionally, if market conditions change subsequent to year end, amounts reported in future periods as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. The Company, from time to time, uses derivative contracts designated as cash flow hedges to fix the purchase price of anticipated volumes of commodities to be purchased and processed in a future month, to fix the purchase price of the Companys anticipated natural gas requirements for certain production facilities, and to fix the sales price of anticipated volumes of ethanol. The change in the market value of such derivative contracts has historically been, and is expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold and net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. If it is determined that the derivative instruments used are no longer effective at offsetting changes in the price of the hedged item, then the changes in the market value of these exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts would be recorded in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. See Note 4 in Item 8 for additional information. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Employee Benefit Plans The Company provides substantially all U.S. employees and employees at certain international subsidiaries with pension benefits. Eligible U.S. employees with five or more years of service prior to January 1, 2009 participate in a defined benefit pension plan. Eligible U.S. employees hired on or after January 1, 2009 (and eligible salaried employees with less than five years of service prior to January 1, 2009) participate in a cash balance pension formula. The Company provides eligible U.S. employees who retire under qualifying conditions with access to postretirement health care, at full cost to the retiree (certain employees are grandfathered into subsidized coverage). In order to measure the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans, management makes several estimates and assumptions, including interest rates used to discount certain liabilities, rates of return on assets set aside to fund these plans, rates of compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and anticipated future health care costs. These estimates and assumptions are based on the Companys historical experience combined with managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Management also uses third party actuaries to assist in measuring the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans. If management used different estimates and assumptions regarding these plans, the funded status of the plans could vary significantly, and the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. See Note 15 in Item 8 for additional information. Income Taxes The Company frequently faces challenges from U.S. and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company records reserves for estimates of potential additional tax owed by the Company. As an example, a subsidiary of the Company received tax assessments in the amount of $665 million consisting of tax, penalty, and interest (adjusted for interest and variation in currency exchange rates) from the Brazilian Federal Revenue Service challenging the deductibility of commodity hedging losses incurred by the Company for tax years 2004, 2006 and 2007. The Company evaluated its tax position regarding these hedging transactions and concluded, based in part upon advice from Brazilian legal counsel, that it was appropriate to recognize the tax benefits of these deductions (See Note 13 in Item 8 for additional information). Deferred tax assets represent items to be used as tax deductions or credits in future tax returns, and the related tax benefit has already been recognized in the Companys income statement. The realization of the Companys deferred tax assets is dependent upon future taxable income in specific tax jurisdictions, the timing and amount of which are uncertain. The Company evaluates all available positive and negative evidence including estimated future reversals of existing temporary differences, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies, and recent financial results. Valuation allowances related to these deferred tax assets have been established to the extent the realization of the tax benefit is not likely. To the extent the Company were to favorably resolve matters for which accruals have been established or be required to pay amounts in excess of the aforementioned reserves, the Companys effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be impacted. Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and the Companys share of the undistributed earnings of affiliated corporate joint venture companies accounted for on the equity method amounting to approximately $8.2 billion at June 30, 2011, are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned factors may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and cash flows of the Companys assets in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its factories. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment, technology, and companies related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. Assets are written down after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these assets, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Goodwill and other intangible assets The Company accounts for its goodwill and other intangible assets in accordance with ASC Topic 350, Intangibles Goodwill and Other. Under this standard, goodwill and intangible assets deemed to have indefinite lives are not amortized but are subject to annual impairment tests. The Company evaluates goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year or whenever there are indicators that the carrying value of the assets may not be fully recoverable. Definite lived intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its impairment tests, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Valuation of Marketable Securities and Investments in Affiliates The Company classifies the majority of its marketable securities as available for sale and carries these securities at fair value. The Company applies the equity method for investments over which the Company has the ability to exercise significant influence. These investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings and are adjusted, where appropriate, for amortizable basis differences between the investment balance and the underlying net assets of the investee. For publicly traded securities, the fair value of the Companys investments is readily available based on quoted market prices. For non publicly traded securities, managements assessment of fair value is based on valuation methodologies including discounted cash flows and estimates of sales proceeds. In the event of a decline in fair value of an investment below carrying value, management is required to determine if the decline in fair value is other than temporary. In evaluating the nature of a decline in the fair value of an investment, management considers the market conditions, trends of earnings, discounted cash flows, trading volumes, and other key measures of the investment as well as the Companys ability and intent to hold the investment. When such a decline in value is deemed to be other than temporary, an impairment loss is recognized in the current period operating results to the extent of the decline. See Notes 5 and 6 in Item 8 for information regarding the Companys marketable securities and investments in affiliates. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these marketable securities, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in: commodity market prices as they relate to the Companys net commodity position, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and prices of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to factors such as changes in weather conditions, disease, plantings, government programs and policies, competition, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. The Company enters into derivative and non derivative contracts with the primary objective of managing the Companys exposure to adverse price movements in the agricultural commodities used for, and produced in, our business operations. The Company will also use exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the volatility of the relationship between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contracts defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company, from time to time, enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold or net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. The Companys commodity position consists of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, related purchase and sales contracts, energy and freight contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts including contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements, net of sales. The fair value of the Companys commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing all of the commodity positions at quoted market prices for the period, where available, or utilizing a close proxy. The Company has established metrics to monitor the amount of market risk exposure, which consist of volumetric limits, and value at risk (VaR) limits. VaR measures the potential loss, at a 95% confidence level, that could be incurred over a one year period. Volumetric limits are monitored daily and VaR calculations and sensitivity analysis are monitored weekly. In addition to measuring the hypothetical loss resulting from an adverse two standard deviation move in market prices (assuming no correlations) over a one year period using VaR, sensitivity analysis is performed measuring the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in market prices. The highest, lowest, and average weekly position for each of the last two years together with the market risk from a hypothetical 10% adverse price change is as follows: 2011 2010 Long/(Short) Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest position $ 2,388 $ 239 $ 738 $ 74 Lowest position 368 37 (183 ) (18 ) Average position 1,644 164 216 22 The change in fair value of the average position for 2011 compared to 2010 was principally the result of changes in average quantities underlying the weekly commodity position. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) Currencies The Company conducts its business in over 75 countries. For the majority of the Companys subsidiaries located outside the United States, the local currency is the functional currency. To reduce the risks associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, the Company enters into currency exchange contracts to minimize its foreign currency position related to transactions denominated primarily in Euro, British pound, Canadian dollar, and Brazilian real currencies. These currencies represent the major functional or local currencies in which recurring business transactions occur. The Company does not use currency exchange contracts as hedges against amounts permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The currency exchange contracts used are forward contracts, swaps with banks, exchange traded futures contracts, and over the counter options. The changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $8.2 billion at June 30, 2011, and $6.4 billion at June 30, 2010. This increase is due to the appreciation of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar and an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The potential loss in fair value, which would principally be recognized in Other Comprehensive Income, resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $837 million and $639 million for 2011 and 2010, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 50 basis points decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2011 2010 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 9,108 $ 7,700 Excess of fair value over carrying value 842 870 Market risk 333 289 The increase in fair value of long term debt in 2011 resulted principally from the issuance of $1.5 billion of 18 month floating rate notes in February 2011. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) In addition, the Company has entered into agreements, primarily debt guarantee agreements related to equity method investees, which could obligate the Company to make future payments. The Companys liability under these agreements arises only if the primary entity fails to perform its contractual obligation. The Company has collateral for a portion of these contingent obligations. At June 30, 2011, these contingent obligations totaled approximately $121 million. Amounts outstanding for the primary entity under these contingent obligations were $69 million at June 30, 2011. Critical Accounting Policies The process of preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the carrying values of the Companys assets and liabilities as well as the recognition of revenues and expenses. These estimates and judgments are based on the Companys historical experience and managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Certain of the Companys accounting policies are considered critical, as these policies are important to the depiction of the Companys financial statements and require significant or complex judgment by management. Management has discussed with the Companys Audit Committee the development, selection, disclosure, and application of these critical accounting policies. Following are the accounting policies management considers critical to the Companys financial statements. Inventories and Derivatives Certain of the Companys merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, forward fixed price purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts are valued at estimated market values. These merchandisable agricultural commodities are freely traded, have quoted market prices, and may be sold without significant additional processing. Management estimates market value based on exchange quoted prices, adjusted for differences in local markets. Changes in the market values of these inventories and contracts are recognized in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. If management used different methods or factors to estimate market value, amounts reported as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. Additionally, if market conditions change subsequent to year end, amounts reported in future periods as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. The Company, from time to time, uses derivative contracts designated as cash flow hedges to fix the purchase price of anticipated volumes of commodities to be purchased and processed in a future month, to fix the purchase price of the Companys anticipated natural gas requirements for certain production facilities, and to fix the sales price of anticipated volumes of ethanol. The change in the market value of such derivative contracts has historically been, and is expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold and net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. If it is determined that the derivative instruments used are no longer effective at offsetting changes in the price of the hedged item, then the changes in the market value of these exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts would be recorded in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. See Note 4 in Item 8 for additional information. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Employee Benefit Plans The Company provides substantially all U.S. employees and employees at certain international subsidiaries with pension benefits. Eligible U.S. employees with five or more years of service prior to January 1, 2009 participate in a defined benefit pension plan. Eligible U.S. employees hired on or after January 1, 2009 (and eligible salaried employees with less than five years of service prior to January 1, 2009) participate in a cash balance pension formula. The Company provides eligible U.S. employees who retire under qualifying conditions with access to postretirement health care, at full cost to the retiree (certain employees are grandfathered into subsidized coverage). In order to measure the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans, management makes several estimates and assumptions, including interest rates used to discount certain liabilities, rates of return on assets set aside to fund these plans, rates of compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and anticipated future health care costs. These estimates and assumptions are based on the Companys historical experience combined with managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Management also uses third party actuaries to assist in measuring the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans. If management used different estimates and assumptions regarding these plans, the funded status of the plans could vary significantly, and the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. See Note 15 in Item 8 for additional information. Income Taxes The Company frequently faces challenges from U.S. and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company records reserves for estimates of potential additional tax owed by the Company. As an example, a subsidiary of the Company received tax assessments in the amount of $665 million consisting of tax, penalty, and interest (adjusted for interest and variation in currency exchange rates) from the Brazilian Federal Revenue Service challenging the deductibility of commodity hedging losses incurred by the Company for tax years 2004, 2006 and 2007. The Company evaluated its tax position regarding these hedging transactions and concluded, based in part upon advice from Brazilian legal counsel, that it was appropriate to recognize the tax benefits of these deductions (See Note 13 in Item 8 for additional information). Deferred tax assets represent items to be used as tax deductions or credits in future tax returns, and the related tax benefit has already been recognized in the Companys income statement. The realization of the Companys deferred tax assets is dependent upon future taxable income in specific tax jurisdictions, the timing and amount of which are uncertain. The Company evaluates all available positive and negative evidence including estimated future reversals of existing temporary differences, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies, and recent financial results. Valuation allowances related to these deferred tax assets have been established to the extent the realization of the tax benefit is not likely. To the extent the Company were to favorably resolve matters for which accruals have been established or be required to pay amounts in excess of the aforementioned reserves, the Companys effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be impacted. Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and the Companys share of the undistributed earnings of affiliated corporate joint venture companies accounted for on the equity method amounting to approximately $8.2 billion at June 30, 2011, are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned factors may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and cash flows of the Companys assets in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its factories. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment, technology, and companies related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. Assets are written down after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these assets, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Goodwill and other intangible assets The Company accounts for its goodwill and other intangible assets in accordance with ASC Topic 350, Intangibles Goodwill and Other. Under this standard, goodwill and intangible assets deemed to have indefinite lives are not amortized but are subject to annual impairment tests. The Company evaluates goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year or whenever there are indicators that the carrying value of the assets may not be fully recoverable. Definite lived intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its impairment tests, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Valuation of Marketable Securities and Investments in Affiliates The Company classifies the majority of its marketable securities as available for sale and carries these securities at fair value. The Company applies the equity method for investments over which the Company has the ability to exercise significant influence. These investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings and are adjusted, where appropriate, for amortizable basis differences between the investment balance and the underlying net assets of the investee. For publicly traded securities, the fair value of the Companys investments is readily available based on quoted market prices. For non publicly traded securities, managements assessment of fair value is based on valuation methodologies including discounted cash flows and estimates of sales proceeds. In the event of a decline in fair value of an investment below carrying value, management is required to determine if the decline in fair value is other than temporary. In evaluating the nature of a decline in the fair value of an investment, management considers the market conditions, trends of earnings, discounted cash flows, trading volumes, and other key measures of the investment as well as the Companys ability and intent to hold the investment. When such a decline in value is deemed to be other than temporary, an impairment loss is recognized in the current period operating results to the extent of the decline. See Notes 5 and 6 in Item 8 for information regarding the Companys marketable securities and investments in affiliates. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these marketable securities, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in: commodity market prices as they relate to the Companys net commodity position, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and prices of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to factors such as changes in weather conditions, disease, plantings, government programs and policies, competition, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. The Company enters into derivative and non derivative contracts with the primary objective of managing the Companys exposure to adverse price movements in the agricultural commodities used for, and produced in, our business operations. The Company will also use exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the volatility of the relationship between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contracts defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company, from time to time, enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold or net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. The Companys commodity position consists of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, related purchase and sales contracts, energy and freight contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts including contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements, net of sales. The fair value of the Companys commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing all of the commodity positions at quoted market prices for the period, where available, or utilizing a close proxy. The Company has established metrics to monitor the amount of market risk exposure, which consist of volumetric limits, and value at risk (VaR) limits. VaR measures the potential loss, at a 95% confidence level, that could be incurred over a one year period. Volumetric limits are monitored daily and VaR calculations and sensitivity analysis are monitored weekly. In addition to measuring the hypothetical loss resulting from an adverse two standard deviation move in market prices (assuming no correlations) over a one year period using VaR, sensitivity analysis is performed measuring the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in market prices. The highest, lowest, and average weekly position for each of the last two years together with the market risk from a hypothetical 10% adverse price change is as follows: 2011 2010 Long/(Short) Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest position $ 2,388 $ 239 $ 738 $ 74 Lowest position 368 37 (183 ) (18 ) Average position 1,644 164 216 22 The change in fair value of the average position for 2011 compared to 2010 was principally the result of changes in average quantities underlying the weekly commodity position. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) Currencies The Company conducts its business in over 75 countries. For the majority of the Companys subsidiaries located outside the United States, the local currency is the functional currency. To reduce the risks associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, the Company enters into currency exchange contracts to minimize its foreign currency position related to transactions denominated primarily in Euro, British pound, Canadian dollar, and Brazilian real currencies. These currencies represent the major functional or local currencies in which recurring business transactions occur. The Company does not use currency exchange contracts as hedges against amounts permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The currency exchange contracts used are forward contracts, swaps with banks, exchange traded futures contracts, and over the counter options. The changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $8.2 billion at June 30, 2011, and $6.4 billion at June 30, 2010. This increase is due to the appreciation of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar and an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The potential loss in fair value, which would principally be recognized in Other Comprehensive Income, resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $837 million and $639 million for 2011 and 2010, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 50 basis points decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2011 2010 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 9,108 $ 7,700 Excess of fair value over carrying value 842 870 Market risk 333 289 The increase in fair value of long term debt in 2011 resulted principally from the issuance of $1.5 billion of 18 month floating rate notes in February 2011. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Employee Benefit Plans The Company provides substantially all U.S. employees and employees at certain international subsidiaries with pension benefits. Eligible U.S. employees with five or more years of service prior to January 1, 2009 participate in a defined benefit pension plan. Eligible U.S. employees hired on or after January 1, 2009 (and eligible salaried employees with less than five years of service prior to January 1, 2009) participate in a cash balance pension formula. The Company provides eligible U.S. employees who retire under qualifying conditions with access to postretirement health care, at full cost to the retiree (certain employees are grandfathered into subsidized coverage). In order to measure the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans, management makes several estimates and assumptions, including interest rates used to discount certain liabilities, rates of return on assets set aside to fund these plans, rates of compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and anticipated future health care costs. These estimates and assumptions are based on the Companys historical experience combined with managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Management also uses third party actuaries to assist in measuring the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans. If management used different estimates and assumptions regarding these plans, the funded status of the plans could vary significantly, and the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. See Note 15 in Item 8 for additional information. Income Taxes The Company frequently faces challenges from U.S. and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company records reserves for estimates of potential additional tax owed by the Company. As an example, a subsidiary of the Company received tax assessments in the amount of $665 million consisting of tax, penalty, and interest (adjusted for interest and variation in currency exchange rates) from the Brazilian Federal Revenue Service challenging the deductibility of commodity hedging losses incurred by the Company for tax years 2004, 2006 and 2007. The Company evaluated its tax position regarding these hedging transactions and concluded, based in part upon advice from Brazilian legal counsel, that it was appropriate to recognize the tax benefits of these deductions (See Note 13 in Item 8 for additional information). Deferred tax assets represent items to be used as tax deductions or credits in future tax returns, and the related tax benefit has already been recognized in the Companys income statement. The realization of the Companys deferred tax assets is dependent upon future taxable income in specific tax jurisdictions, the timing and amount of which are uncertain. The Company evaluates all available positive and negative evidence including estimated future reversals of existing temporary differences, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies, and recent financial results. Valuation allowances related to these deferred tax assets have been established to the extent the realization of the tax benefit is not likely. To the extent the Company were to favorably resolve matters for which accruals have been established or be required to pay amounts in excess of the aforementioned reserves, the Companys effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be impacted. Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and the Companys share of the undistributed earnings of affiliated corporate joint venture companies accounted for on the equity method amounting to approximately $8.2 billion at June 30, 2011, are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned factors may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and cash flows of the Companys assets in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its factories. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment, technology, and companies related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. Assets are written down after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these assets, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Goodwill and other intangible assets The Company accounts for its goodwill and other intangible assets in accordance with ASC Topic 350, Intangibles Goodwill and Other. Under this standard, goodwill and intangible assets deemed to have indefinite lives are not amortized but are subject to annual impairment tests. The Company evaluates goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year or whenever there are indicators that the carrying value of the assets may not be fully recoverable. Definite lived intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its impairment tests, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Valuation of Marketable Securities and Investments in Affiliates The Company classifies the majority of its marketable securities as available for sale and carries these securities at fair value. The Company applies the equity method for investments over which the Company has the ability to exercise significant influence. These investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings and are adjusted, where appropriate, for amortizable basis differences between the investment balance and the underlying net assets of the investee. For publicly traded securities, the fair value of the Companys investments is readily available based on quoted market prices. For non publicly traded securities, managements assessment of fair value is based on valuation methodologies including discounted cash flows and estimates of sales proceeds. In the event of a decline in fair value of an investment below carrying value, management is required to determine if the decline in fair value is other than temporary. In evaluating the nature of a decline in the fair value of an investment, management considers the market conditions, trends of earnings, discounted cash flows, trading volumes, and other key measures of the investment as well as the Companys ability and intent to hold the investment. When such a decline in value is deemed to be other than temporary, an impairment loss is recognized in the current period operating results to the extent of the decline. See Notes 5 and 6 in Item 8 for information regarding the Companys marketable securities and investments in affiliates. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these marketable securities, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in: commodity market prices as they relate to the Companys net commodity position, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and prices of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to factors such as changes in weather conditions, disease, plantings, government programs and policies, competition, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. The Company enters into derivative and non derivative contracts with the primary objective of managing the Companys exposure to adverse price movements in the agricultural commodities used for, and produced in, our business operations. The Company will also use exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the volatility of the relationship between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contracts defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company, from time to time, enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold or net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. The Companys commodity position consists of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, related purchase and sales contracts, energy and freight contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts including contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements, net of sales. The fair value of the Companys commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing all of the commodity positions at quoted market prices for the period, where available, or utilizing a close proxy. The Company has established metrics to monitor the amount of market risk exposure, which consist of volumetric limits, and value at risk (VaR) limits. VaR measures the potential loss, at a 95% confidence level, that could be incurred over a one year period. Volumetric limits are monitored daily and VaR calculations and sensitivity analysis are monitored weekly. In addition to measuring the hypothetical loss resulting from an adverse two standard deviation move in market prices (assuming no correlations) over a one year period using VaR, sensitivity analysis is performed measuring the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in market prices. The highest, lowest, and average weekly position for each of the last two years together with the market risk from a hypothetical 10% adverse price change is as follows: 2011 2010 Long/(Short) Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest position $ 2,388 $ 239 $ 738 $ 74 Lowest position 368 37 (183 ) (18 ) Average position 1,644 164 216 22 The change in fair value of the average position for 2011 compared to 2010 was principally the result of changes in average quantities underlying the weekly commodity position. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) Currencies The Company conducts its business in over 75 countries. For the majority of the Companys subsidiaries located outside the United States, the local currency is the functional currency. To reduce the risks associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, the Company enters into currency exchange contracts to minimize its foreign currency position related to transactions denominated primarily in Euro, British pound, Canadian dollar, and Brazilian real currencies. These currencies represent the major functional or local currencies in which recurring business transactions occur. The Company does not use currency exchange contracts as hedges against amounts permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The currency exchange contracts used are forward contracts, swaps with banks, exchange traded futures contracts, and over the counter options. The changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $8.2 billion at June 30, 2011, and $6.4 billion at June 30, 2010. This increase is due to the appreciation of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar and an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The potential loss in fair value, which would principally be recognized in Other Comprehensive Income, resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $837 million and $639 million for 2011 and 2010, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 50 basis points decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2011 2010 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 9,108 $ 7,700 Excess of fair value over carrying value 842 870 Market risk 333 289 The increase in fair value of long term debt in 2011 resulted principally from the issuance of $1.5 billion of 18 month floating rate notes in February 2011. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned factors may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and cash flows of the Companys assets in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its factories. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment, technology, and companies related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. Assets are written down after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these assets, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Goodwill and other intangible assets The Company accounts for its goodwill and other intangible assets in accordance with ASC Topic 350, Intangibles Goodwill and Other. Under this standard, goodwill and intangible assets deemed to have indefinite lives are not amortized but are subject to annual impairment tests. The Company evaluates goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year or whenever there are indicators that the carrying value of the assets may not be fully recoverable. Definite lived intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its impairment tests, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Valuation of Marketable Securities and Investments in Affiliates The Company classifies the majority of its marketable securities as available for sale and carries these securities at fair value. The Company applies the equity method for investments over which the Company has the ability to exercise significant influence. These investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings and are adjusted, where appropriate, for amortizable basis differences between the investment balance and the underlying net assets of the investee. For publicly traded securities, the fair value of the Companys investments is readily available based on quoted market prices. For non publicly traded securities, managements assessment of fair value is based on valuation methodologies including discounted cash flows and estimates of sales proceeds. In the event of a decline in fair value of an investment below carrying value, management is required to determine if the decline in fair value is other than temporary. In evaluating the nature of a decline in the fair value of an investment, management considers the market conditions, trends of earnings, discounted cash flows, trading volumes, and other key measures of the investment as well as the Companys ability and intent to hold the investment. When such a decline in value is deemed to be other than temporary, an impairment loss is recognized in the current period operating results to the extent of the decline. See Notes 5 and 6 in Item 8 for information regarding the Companys marketable securities and investments in affiliates. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these marketable securities, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in: commodity market prices as they relate to the Companys net commodity position, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and prices of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to factors such as changes in weather conditions, disease, plantings, government programs and policies, competition, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. The Company enters into derivative and non derivative contracts with the primary objective of managing the Companys exposure to adverse price movements in the agricultural commodities used for, and produced in, our business operations. The Company will also use exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the volatility of the relationship between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contracts defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company, from time to time, enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold or net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. The Companys commodity position consists of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, related purchase and sales contracts, energy and freight contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts including contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements, net of sales. The fair value of the Companys commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing all of the commodity positions at quoted market prices for the period, where available, or utilizing a close proxy. The Company has established metrics to monitor the amount of market risk exposure, which consist of volumetric limits, and value at risk (VaR) limits. VaR measures the potential loss, at a 95% confidence level, that could be incurred over a one year period. Volumetric limits are monitored daily and VaR calculations and sensitivity analysis are monitored weekly. In addition to measuring the hypothetical loss resulting from an adverse two standard deviation move in market prices (assuming no correlations) over a one year period using VaR, sensitivity analysis is performed measuring the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in market prices. The highest, lowest, and average weekly position for each of the last two years together with the market risk from a hypothetical 10% adverse price change is as follows: 2011 2010 Long/(Short) Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest position $ 2,388 $ 239 $ 738 $ 74 Lowest position 368 37 (183 ) (18 ) Average position 1,644 164 216 22 The change in fair value of the average position for 2011 compared to 2010 was principally the result of changes in average quantities underlying the weekly commodity position. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) Currencies The Company conducts its business in over 75 countries. For the majority of the Companys subsidiaries located outside the United States, the local currency is the functional currency. To reduce the risks associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, the Company enters into currency exchange contracts to minimize its foreign currency position related to transactions denominated primarily in Euro, British pound, Canadian dollar, and Brazilian real currencies. These currencies represent the major functional or local currencies in which recurring business transactions occur. The Company does not use currency exchange contracts as hedges against amounts permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The currency exchange contracts used are forward contracts, swaps with banks, exchange traded futures contracts, and over the counter options. The changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $8.2 billion at June 30, 2011, and $6.4 billion at June 30, 2010. This increase is due to the appreciation of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar and an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The potential loss in fair value, which would principally be recognized in Other Comprehensive Income, resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $837 million and $639 million for 2011 and 2010, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 50 basis points decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2011 2010 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 9,108 $ 7,700 Excess of fair value over carrying value 842 870 Market risk 333 289 The increase in fair value of long term debt in 2011 resulted principally from the issuance of $1.5 billion of 18 month floating rate notes in February 2011. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Company Overview This MD&A should be read in conjunction with the accompanying consolidated financial statements. The Company is principally engaged in procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. The Company uses its significant global asset base to originate and transport agricultural commodities, connecting to markets in more than 75 countries. The Company also processes corn, oilseeds, wheat and cocoa into products for food, animal feed, chemical and energy uses. The Company uses its global asset network, business acumen, and its relationships with suppliers and customers to generate returns for our shareholders, principally from margins earned on these activities. The Companys operations are organized, managed and classified into three reportable business segments: Oilseeds Processing, Corn Processing, and Agricultural Services. Each of these segments is organized based upon the nature of products and services offered. The Companys remaining operations, which include wheat processing, cocoa processing, and its financial business units, are not reportable segments, as defined by the applicable accounting standard, and are classified as Other. The Oilseeds Processing segment includes activities related to the origination, merchandising, crushing, and further processing of oilseeds such as soybeans and soft seeds (cottonseed, sunflower seed, canola, rapeseed, and flaxseed) into vegetable oils and protein meals. Oilseeds products produced and marketed by the Company include ingredients for the food, feed, energy, and other industrial products industries. Crude vegetable oils produced by the segments crushing activities are sold as is or are further processed by refining, blending, bleaching, and deodorizing into salad oils. Salad oils are sold as is or are further processed by hydrogenating and or interesterifying into margarine, shortening, and other food products. Partially refined oils are used to produce biodiesel or are sold to other manufacturers for use in chemicals, paints, and other industrial products. Oilseed protein meals are principally sold to third parties to be used as ingredients in commercial livestock and poultry feeds. The Oilseeds Processing segment also produces natural health and nutrition products and other specialty food and feed ingredients. In North America, cottonseed flour is produced and sold primarily to the pharmaceutical industry and cotton cellulose pulp is manufactured and sold to the chemical, paper, and filter markets. In Europe and South America, the Oilseeds Processing segment includes origination and merchandising activities of a network of grain elevators, port facilities, and transportation assets used to buy, store, clean, and transport agricultural commodities, as adjuncts to its oilseeds processing assets. In South America, the Oilseeds Processing segment operates fertilizer blending facilities. Effective December 31, 2010, the Company acquired Alimenta (USA) Inc., and as a result of the transaction, now owns 100% of Golden Peanut, the leading U.S. peanut sheller and oil refiner and operator of one peanut shelling facility in Argentina. The Oilseeds Processing segment began consolidating the operating results of Golden Peanut, its previously 50% owned joint venture, in the third quarter of fiscal 2011. The Oilseeds Processing segment also includes the Companys share of the results of its equity investment in Wilmar and its share of results for its Edible Oils Limited and Stratas Foods, LLC joint ventures. ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) The Companys Corn Processing segment is engaged in corn wet milling and dry milling activities, with its asset base primarily located in the central part of the United States. The Corn Processing segment converts corn into sweeteners and starches, and bioproducts. Its products include ingredients used in the food and beverage industry including sweeteners, starch, syrup, glucose, and dextrose. Dextrose and starch are used by the Corn Processing segment as feedstocks for its bioproducts operations. By fermentation of dextrose, the Corn Processing segment produces alcohol, amino acids, and other specialty food and animal feed ingredients. Ethyl alcohol is produced by the Company for industrial use as ethanol or as beverage grade. Ethanol, in gasoline, increases octane and is used as an extender and oxygenate. Bioproducts also include amino acids such as lysine and threonine that are vital compounds used in swine feeds to produce leaner animals and in poultry feeds to enhance the speed and efficiency of poultry production. Corn gluten feed and meal, as well as distillers grains, are produced for use as animal feed ingredients. Corn germ, a by product of the wet milling process, is further processed into vegetable oil and protein meal. Other Corn Processing products include citric and lactic acids, lactates, sorbitol, xanthan gum, and glycols which are used in various food and industrial products. The Corn Processing segment includes the activities of the Companys Brazilian sugarcane operations, propylene and ethylene glycol facility, a bioplastic facility, and other equity investments in renewable plastics. This segment includes the Companys share of the results of its equity investments in Almidones Mexicanos S.A., Eaststarch C.V., and Red Star Yeast Company LLC. The Agricultural Services segment utilizes its extensive U.S. grain elevator and global transportation network to buy, store, clean, and transport agricultural commodities, such as oilseeds, corn, wheat, milo, oats, rice, and barley, and resells these commodities primarily as food and feed ingredients and as raw materials for the agricultural processing industry. Agricultural Services grain sourcing and transportation network provides reliable and efficient services to the Companys customers and agricultural processing operations. Agricultural Services transportation network capabilities include truck, rail, barge, port, and ocean going vessel handling and freight services. The Agricultural Services segment includes the activities of Alfred C. Toepfer International, an 80% owned global merchant of agricultural commodities and processed products. The Agricultural Services segment also includes the Companys share of the results of its Kalama Export Company joint venture, activities related to the processing and distributing of formula feeds and animal health and nutrition products, and the procuring, processing, and distributing of edible beans. Other includes the Companys remaining processing operations, consisting of activities related to processing agricultural commodities into food ingredient products such as wheat into wheat flour, and cocoa into chocolate and cocoa products. Other also includes financial activities related to banking, captive insurance, futures commission merchant activities, private equity fund investments, and the Companys share of the results of its equity investment in Gruma S.A.B de C.V. Corporate results principally include the impact of LIFO related inventory adjustments, unallocated corporate expenses, unallocated net interest costs, and the after tax elimination of income attributable to mandatorily redeemable interests in consolidated subsidiaries. Operating Performance Indicators The Companys oilseeds processing, agricultural services, and wheat processing operations are principally agricultural commodity based businesses where changes in selling prices move in relationship to changes in prices of the commodity based agricultural raw materials. Therefore, changes in agricultural commodity prices have relatively equal impacts on both net sales and other operating income and cost of products sold. Thus, changes in margins and gross profit of these businesses do not necessarily correspond to the changes in net sales and other operating income amounts. The Companys corn processing operations and certain other food and animal feed processing operations also utilize agricultural commodities (or products derived from agricultural commodities) as raw materials. In these operations, agricultural commodity market price changes can result in significant fluctuations in cost of products sold, and such price changes cannot necessarily be passed directly through to the selling price of the finished products. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) The Company conducts its business in over 75 countries. For the majority of the Companys subsidiaries located outside the United States, the local currency is the functional currency. Revenues and expenses denominated in foreign currencies are translated into U.S. dollars at the weighted average exchange rates for the applicable periods. For the majority of the Companys business activities in Brazil, the functional currency is the U.S. dollar, however certain transactions, including taxes, occur in local currency and require conversion to the functional currency. Fluctuations in the exchange rates of foreign currencies, primarily the Euro, British pound, Canadian dollar, and Brazilian real, as compared to the U.S. dollar can result in corresponding fluctuations in the U.S. dollar value of revenues and expenses reported by the Company. The Company measures the performance of its business segments using key financial metrics such as segment operating profit, return on invested capital, and cost per metric ton. The Companys operating results can vary significantly due to changes in factors such as fluctuations in energy prices, weather conditions, crop plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth, general global economic conditions, changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. Due to these unpredictable factors, the Company does not provide forward looking information in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 2011 Compared to 2010 As an agricultural commodity based business, the Company is subject to a variety of market factors which affect the Companys operating results. In 2011, prices for certain agricultural commodities were higher in response to growing global demand and tighter crop supplies. The projections of lower 2011 carryover stocks for certain key commodities, coupled with regional crop supply dislocations for certain commodities, also led to high commodity price volatility. Global demand for agricultural commodities grew in 2011, resulting in increased sales volumes for most of the Companys products. The large 2010 North American harvest resulted in global merchandising, handling, and processing opportunities. Protein meal markets for commercial livestock producers in the U.S., particularly poultry producers, faced challenging conditions. Biodiesel markets in Europe and South America, together with the 2011 extension of the U.S. biodiesel blenders credit, helped support global demand for refined and crude vegetable oils. Sweeteners and starches demand remained strong in 2011 due primarily to U.S. exports of sweeteners and improved demand for industrial starches. Ethanol sales volumes, including increased volumes as the Companys new dry mills ramped up, were supported by favorable gasoline blending economics in the U.S. and good export demand. Net earnings increased $106 million to $2.0 billion due principally to a $782 million increase in segment operating profit partially offset by a negative impact from changing LIFO inventory valuations and higher income taxes. In 2011, the Company successfully managed through significant increases in market prices for most of its agricultural commodity raw materials, resulting in increased segment operating profit. Earnings before income taxes includes charges of $368 million from the effect of increasing agricultural commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuation reserves, compared to credits of $42 million in the prior year caused by decreasing agricultural commodity prices. Income taxes increased $331 million due to a higher effective income tax rate and higher earnings before income taxes. The effective income tax rate of 33.1% for 2011 was the result of changes in the geographic mix of earnings and unfavorable specific tax items. The fully diluted earnings per share calculation for 2011 was impacted by the completion of the Companys debt remarketing related to the $1.75 billion Equity Units. While the approximately 44 million new common shares related to the $1.75 billion Equity Units were not issued until June 1, 2011, the if converted method of accounting for diluted earnings per share required diluted EPS to be calculated as if the Company issued the shares on January 1, 2011, and this assumption resulted in a dilutive impact of $0.04 on earnings per share (See Note 9 in the accompanying consolidated financial statements). Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Analysis of Statements of Earnings Prior year net sales and other operating income by segment has been reclassified to conform to the current years presentation resulting in reclassified net sales and other operating income at the segment level with no impact to total net sales and other operating income or operating profit. Net sales and other operating income by segment are as follows: 2011 2010 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing and Origination $ 16,924 $ 14,487 $ 2,437 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel and Other 9,476 7,133 2,343 Asia 262 190 72 Total Oilseeds Processing 26,662 21,810 4,852 Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 3,766 3,264 502 Bioproducts 6,142 4,610 1,532 Total Corn Processing 9,908 7,874 2,034 Agricultural Services Merchandising and Handling 37,705 26,589 11,116 Transportation 222 167 55 Total Agricultural Services 37,927 26,756 11,171 Other Processing 6,069 5,147 922 Financial 110 95 15 Total Other 6,179 5,242 937 Total $ 80,676 $ 61,682 $ 18,994 Net sales and other operating income increased $19.0 billion, or 31%, to $80.7 billion. Net sales and other operating income increased $14.2 billion due to higher average selling prices, primarily related to higher underlying commodity costs, and increased $4.8 billion due to increased sales volumes, including sales volumes from acquisitions. Agricultural Services sales increased 42% to $37.9 billion due to higher average selling prices of agricultural commodities and higher global sales volumes. Oilseeds Processing sales increased 22% to $26.7 billion primarily due to higher average selling prices for vegetable oils, soybeans, biodiesel, and protein meal. Corn Processing sales increased 26% to $9.9 billion due to higher average selling prices and increased sales volumes of ethanol and other corn products, in part due to the Companys two new ethanol dry mills coming on line. Other sales increased 18% to $6.2 billion primarily due to higher average selling prices of cocoa and cocoa products and wheat flour; and increased sales volumes of cocoa and cocoa products. ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Cost of products sold increased 32% to $76.4 billion due to higher costs of agricultural commodities, negative impacts resulting from changes in LIFO inventory valuations, and higher manufacturing costs. Cost of products sold includes charges of $368 million from the effect of increasing agricultural commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuation reserves, compared to credits of $42 million in the prior year caused by decreasing agricultural commodity prices. Manufacturing expenses increased $410 million due primarily to higher processed volumes, including the volumes of the Companys new greenfield operations coming on line, and higher average unit costs for certain chemicals and fuels used in the Companys processing and transportation operations. During the second quarter of fiscal 2011, the Company updated its estimates for service lives of certain of its machinery and equipment assets. This change in estimate resulted in a $133 million decrease in depreciation expense compared to the amount of depreciation expense the Company would have recorded using the previously estimated service lives. Manufacturing expenses included $94 million in fiscal 2011 related to the start up of new plants compared to $110 million in the prior year. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased 15% to $1.6 billion. This increase was due to higher employee related costs and higher administrative expenses. Higher employee related costs principally reflect the increase in number of employees during the year and included higher salaries and wages, higher accruals for performance based compensation and higher benefit expenses. Equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates declined 3% to $542 million. The decline in earnings from the Companys equity investee, Wilmar, were partially offset by higher earnings of the Companys equity investee, Gruma, in part due to a gain on disposition of assets. Interest income increased 8% to $136 million principally resulting from higher interest earned on advances to affiliates. Interest expense increased 14% to $482 million. Interest costs capitalized as a component of major construction projects in progress was $7 million compared to $75 million in the prior year. Interest incurred on long term debt declined $24 million as a result of debt retirements while interest incurred on short term debt increased $15 million due to higher average borrowings driven by higher working capital requirements. Other (income) expense net increased $255 million primarily due to the $71 million gain resulting from the revaluation of the Companys previously held equity interest in Golden Peanut upon acquisition of the remaining 50% interest, gains on interest rate swaps of $30 million compared to a loss of $59 million in the prior year, and a decrease in charges related to early extinguishment of debt from $75 million in the prior year to $15 million in the current year. Income taxes increased $331 million to $997 million due to a higher effective income tax rate and higher pretax earnings. The Companys effective income tax rate increased to 33.1% during 2011 compared to 25.8% in fiscal 2010. The increase in the current year rate is primarily due to a geographic mix of earnings that shifted more to the U.S., a higher U.S. effective income tax rate, income tax expense associated with foreign currency re measurement of non monetary assets in Brazil, and adjustments to deferred income tax balances. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Operating profit by segment is as follows: 2011 2010 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing and Origination $ 1,013 $ 818 $ 195 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel and Other 329 291 38 Asia 182 291 (109 ) Total Oilseeds Processing 1,524 1,400 124 Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 320 529 (209 ) Bioproducts 742 193 549 Total Corn Processing 1,062 722 340 Agricultural Services Merchandising and Handling 818 583 235 Transportation 104 85 19 Total Agricultural Services 922 668 254 Other Processing 474 403 71 Financial 39 46 (7 ) Total Other 513 449 64 Total Segment Operating Profit 4,021 3,239 782 Corporate (see below) (1,006 ) (654 ) (352 ) Earnings Before Income Taxes $ 3,015 $ 2,585 $ 430 Corporate results are as follows: 2011 2010 Change (In millions) LIFO credit (charge) $ (368 ) $ 42 $ (410 ) Unallocated interest expense net (335 ) (283 ) (52 ) Unallocated corporate costs (326 ) (266 ) (60 ) Charges on early extinguishment of debt (8 ) (75 ) 67 Gains (losses) on interest rate swaps 30 (59 ) 89 Other 1 (13 ) 14 Total Corporate $ (1,006 ) $ (654 ) $ (352 ) Oilseeds Processing operating profit increased 9% to $1.5 billion. Crushing and origination results increased $195 million to $1.0 billion, which include the $71 million gain on the revaluation of the Companys equity interest in Golden Peanut as a result of the acquisition of the remaining 50% interest. Improved North American crushing results, particularly for cotton seed and canola, were partially offset by lower crushing margins in South America and Europe. Margins globally were enhanced by good positioning and by improved origination results. In South America, fertilizer results improved due to higher margins and volumes. Refining, packaging, biodiesel and other results increased $38 million to $329 million due principally to higher packaged oils margins and improved North American and European biodiesel results. Asia results decreased $109 million due principally to decreased earnings from the Companys equity investee, Wilmar. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Corn Processing operating profit increased 47% to $1.1 billion, which includes favorable impacts from ownership positions, which were allocated to sweeteners and starches and bioproducts based on total grind. Sweeteners and starches operating profit decreased $209 million to $320 million due to higher net corn costs partially offset by higher sales volumes. Sales volumes increased due to U.S. export shipments of sweeteners and improved U.S. demand for industrial starches. Bioproducts operating profit improved $549 million primarily due to higher ethanol sales volumes and higher average selling prices leading to increased ethanol and lysine margins. Bioproducts margins were also enhanced by favorable corn ownership positions. Bioproducts results included startup costs related to the Companys new plants of $94 million in the current year compared to $107 million in the prior year. Agricultural Services operating profit increased 38% to $922 million. Merchandising and handling results increased due to higher corn and wheat sales volumes and higher margins. A large 2010 U.S. harvest combined with strong international demand resulted in higher U.S. export shipments. Merchandising and handling results this year include an insurance recovery of $67 million related to property damage and business interruption resulting from an October 2008 explosion at the Companys Destrehan, Louisiana export facility. International merchandising results were weaker in part due to positions impacted by unexpected shifts in crop supply caused by weather conditions and government actions in the Black Sea region. Transportation results increased $19 million to $104 million primarily due to higher barge freight rates and higher barge utilization levels, in part due to higher U.S. export volumes. Other operating profit increased 14% to $513 million. Other processing operating results improved in the Companys wheat milling and cocoa business units due principally to increased equity earnings from the Companys equity investee, Gruma, which include a $78 million gain related to the disposal of Gruma assets. Other financial operating profit decreased $7 million primarily due to higher captive insurance loss provisions principally related to a $67 million loss related to the Companys Destrehan, Louisiana export facility insurance claim. Corporate results decreased $352 million primarily due to the negative impact from changing LIFO inventory valuations and higher unallocated interest expense net. The effects of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory reserves resulted in charges of $368 million compared to credits of $42 million for the prior year. Corporate unallocated interest expense increased $52 million mostly due to lower capitalization of interest costs for construction projects in progress. Partially offsetting the higher LIFO and unallocated interest costs were $30 million of gains on interest rate swaps compared to prior year losses on interest rate swaps of $59 million. In addition, the prior year included charges of $75 million on early debt extinguishment compared to $8 million of similar charges in the current year. 2010 Compared to 2009 As an agricultural commodity based business, the Company is subject to a variety of market factors which affect the Companys operating results. Market expectations throughout most of fiscal 2010 for fewer global crop supply and demand imbalances, coupled with continuing uncertainty about short term demand, led to generally lower and less volatile agricultural commodity market prices and conditions. In addition, the late, extended U.S. harvest reduced profit opportunities. North American oilseed exports and U.S. crushing volumes were enhanced in 2010 by the poor supply of 2009 crop year soybeans in South America. Increased government mandates for the use of biodiesel in South America and Europe resulted in increased biodiesel demand and helped keep overall demand for refined and crude vegetable oil steady in these regions. However, in North America, demand for vegetable oils remained weak in 2010 due to low consumption of oils in the food service and biodiesel industries, in part due to the expiration of the biodiesel blending credit in the U.S. on January 1, 2010. Soybean protein meal demand improved, particularly in Asia. Market prices for corn decreased in 2010 resulting in lower raw material costs for corn processing and decreased average selling prices for sweeteners and starches. Lower energy, fuel and chemical costs per unit positively impacted the Companys manufacturing costs. More favorable ethanol blending economics together with increased ethanol merchandising activity resulted in increased demand, higher ethanol sales volumes, and improved margins. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Earnings before income taxes for 2010 include a credit of $42 million from the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations, compared to a credit of $517 million in 2009. Income taxes decreased $146 million due to a lower effective income tax rate, partially offset by higher pretax earnings. Income taxes for 2009 included a $158 million charge resulting from the restructuring of a holding company in which the Company holds a portion of its equity investment in Wilmar. Analysis of Statements of Earnings Net sales and other operating income by segment for 2010 and 2009 have been reclassified to conform to the current years presentation resulting in reclassified net sales and other operating income at the segment level with no impact to total net sales and other operating income or operating profit. Net sales and other operating income by segment are as follows: 2010 2009 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing and Origination $ 14,487 $ 15,013 $ (526 ) Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel and Other 7,133 8,756 (1,623 ) Asia 190 179 11 Total Oilseeds Processing 21,810 23,948 (2,138 ) Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 3,264 3,690 (426 ) Bioproducts 4,610 3,938 672 Total Corn Processing 7,874 7,628 246 Agricultural Services Merchandising and Handling 26,589 32,007 (5,418 ) Transportation 167 242 (75 ) Total Agricultural Services 26,756 32,249 (5,493 ) Other Processing 5,147 5,272 (125 ) Financial 95 110 (15 ) Total Other 5,242 5,382 (140 ) Total $ 61,682 $ 69,207 $ (7,525 ) Net sales and other operating income decreased 11% to $61.7 billion due principally to lower average selling prices in 2010 in line with year over year declines in underlying commodity costs. Oilseeds Processing sales decreased 9% to $21.8 billion, due principally to lower average selling prices for soybeans, protein meal, refined oil, and biodiesel partially offset by increased sales volumes of soybeans and fertilizer. Corn Processing sales increased 3% to $7.9 billion primarily as a result of increased sales volumes of ethanol and lysine partially offset by lower average selling prices of ethanol, sweeteners, and starches. Agricultural Services sales decreased 17% to $26.8 billion, due to lower average selling prices, in line with year over year declines in underlying commodity prices and lower sales volumes. Other sales decreased 3% to $5.2 billion, primarily due to lower average selling prices of wheat flour partially offset by increased wheat flour sales volumes and higher average selling prices and sales volumes for cocoa products. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Cost of products sold decreased 11% to $57.8 billion, due principally to decreased agricultural commodity costs including the impact of changes in LIFO inventory valuations which reduced cost of products sold by $42 million in 2010 compared to $517 million in 2009. Manufacturing expenses decreased 1% or $60 million, primarily due to lower energy, chemical and fuel costs partially offset by higher employee related costs and a $124 million increase in depreciation and amortization expense. In 2010, manufacturing expenses included additional costs associated with the Companys new greenfield plants. Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased 1% to $1.4 billion, due principally to decreased provisions for doubtful accounts partially offset by increased expenses for legal, professional, and commercial services. Equity earnings of unconsolidated affiliates increased $416 million to $561 million primarily due to the absence of a non cash charge of $275 million in 2009 related to currency derivative losses of the Companys equity investee, Gruma S.A.B. de C.V. Interest income declined $55 million to $126 million primarily due to lower average interest rates. Interest expense declined $47 million to $422 million primarily due to lower average interest rates. Other expense net increased $91 million due to pre tax charges of $75 million related to the early extinguishment of debt and $59 million for unrealized losses on interest rate swaps (for more information on the charges related to the early extinguishment of debt, see Note 8 in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data). Income taxes decreased $146 million due to a lower effective income tax rate partially offset by higher pretax earnings. The Companys effective income tax rate during 2010 was 25.8%. In 2009, the effective income tax rate was 32.5% which included $158 million of income tax charges related to the partial restructuring of the holding company structure through which the Company holds a portion of its equity investment in Wilmar. Excluding these Wilmar charges, the Companys effective income tax rate for 2009 was 26.2%. For more information concerning Wilmar tax matters see Note 13 in Item 8. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Operating profit by segment is as follows: 2010 2009 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing and Origination $ 818 $ 767 $ 51 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel and Other 291 265 26 Asia 291 248 43 Total Oilseeds Processing 1,400 1,280 120 Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 529 500 29 Bioproducts 193 (315 ) 508 Total Corn Processing 722 185 537 Agricultural Services Merchandising and Handling 583 832 (249 ) Transportation 85 162 (77 ) Total Agricultural Services 668 994 (326 ) Other Processing 403 51 352 Financial 46 (57 ) 103 Total Other 449 (6 ) 455 Total Segment Operating Profit 3,239 2,453 786 Corporate (see below) (654 ) 47 (701 ) Earnings Before Income Taxes $ 2,585 $ 2,500 $ 85 Corporate results are as follows: 2010 2009 Change (In millions) LIFO credit $ 42 $ 517 $ (475 ) Unallocated interest expense net (283 ) (192 ) (91 ) Unallocated corporate costs (266 ) (252 ) (14 ) Charges on early extinguishment of debt (75 ) (75 ) Unrealized losses on interest rate swaps (59 ) (59 ) Other (13 ) (26 ) 13 Total Corporate $ (654 ) $ 47 $ (701 ) Oilseeds Processing operating profit increased 9% to $1.4 billion. Crushing and origination results increased $51 million due to higher North American soybean crushing margins and favorable soft seed commodity positioning, partially offset by lower soybean crushing margins in Europe and South America. Refining, packaging, biodiesel and other operating profit increased $26 million due primarily to higher South American biodiesel results and improved margins in Europe. Oilseeds processing results in Asia increased $43 million to $291 million due principally to improved equity earnings of Wilmar. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Corn Processing operating profit increased $537 million to $722 million. Bioproducts operating profit increased $508 million due to improved ethanol and lysine sales volumes and improved ethanol margins resulting from lower net corn costs and decreased manufacturing costs. Ethanol sales volumes increased due to favorable gasoline blending economics and increased merchandising activity. Sweeteners and starches operating profit increased $29 million due to lower net corn and manufacturing costs due principally to lower energy and chemical prices. These lower manufacturing costs were partially offset by lower average selling prices. Agricultural Services operating profit decreased $326 million to $668 million. Merchandising and handling results decreased $249 million. Enhanced volume and margin opportunities created by 2009s volatile commodity markets and tight credit markets did not recur. Volumes and margins in 2010 benefited from strong demand for U.S. soybean exports following the short South American 2009 crop. Transportation results decreased $77 million due to lower barge freight rates and decreased barge utilization levels resulting from weaker U.S. economic conditions and the late, extended North American harvest. Other operating profit increased $455 million to $449 million. Other processing operating profit increased $352 million due to improved equity earnings from the Companys investment in Gruma, improved wheat milling margins, and improved cocoa processing results. Financial operating profit increased $103 million due primarily to the absence of losses experienced in 2009 from managed fund investments and captive insurance operations. Corporate results decreased $701 million. The effects of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations resulted in a credit of $42 million for the year ended June 30, 2010, compared to a credit of $517 million for the year ended June 30, 2009. Unallocated interest expense net increased $91 million reflecting a reduction in corporate interest income caused by lower short term interest rates and lower working capital requirements of the operating segments. In March 2010, the Company repurchased $500 million of long term debt which generated a $75 million pretax charge on early extinguishment of debt. In connection with a debt remarketing planned for 2011, the Company entered into interest rate swaps to fix the interest rate on a portion of the planned remarketing which resulted in $59 million of unrealized losses on interest rate swaps. Liquidity and Capital Resources A Company objective is to have sufficient liquidity, balance sheet strength, and financial flexibility to fund the operating and capital requirements of a capital intensive agricultural commodity based business. The primary source of funds to finance the Companys operations and capital expenditures is cash generated by operations. In addition, the Company maintains a commercial paper borrowing facility and has access to equity and debt capital from public and private sources in both U.S. and international markets. At June 30, 2011, the Company had $1.4 billion of cash, cash equivalents, and short term marketable securities and a current ratio, defined as current assets divided by current liabilities, of 2.1 to 1. Included in working capital is $7.1 billion of readily marketable commodity inventories. Cash used in operating activities was $2.3 billion for the year compared to cash provided by operating activities of $2.7 billion last year. Working capital increased in the current year due principally to higher agricultural commodity market prices. Cash used in investing activities of $1.7 billion, principally for capital expenditures, businesses acquired, and investments, was in line with last year. Cash provided by financing activities was $3.6 billion for the year compared to cash used in financing activities of $1.0 billion last year. Net borrowings increased primarily to fund higher working capital. Short term borrowings increased due principally to higher commercial paper borrowings, and long term borrowings increased primarily as a result of the issuance of $1.5 billion of 18 month floating rate notes in February 2011. In addition, the Company issued common stock and received $1.75 billion under the forward stock purchase component of the Companys Equity Units (see Note 8 in Item 8). At June 30, 2011, the Companys capital resources included net worth of $18.8 billion and lines of credit totaling $6.9 billion, of which $5.7 billion was unused. The Companys ratio of long term debt to total capital (the sum of the Companys long term debt and shareholders equity) was 30% at June 30, 2011 and 32% at June 30, 2010. This ratio is a measure of the Companys long term indebtedness and is an indicator of financial flexibility. Of the Companys total lines of credit, $4.6 billion support a commercial paper borrowing facility, against which there were $620 million of commercial paper outstanding at June 30, 2011. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) The Company has outstanding $1.15 billion principal amount of convertible senior notes. As of June 30, 2011, none of the conditions permitting conversion of these notes had been satisfied. The Company has purchased call options and warrants intended to reduce the potential shareholder dilution upon future conversion of the notes. As of June 30, 2011, the market price of the Companys common stock was not greater than the exercise price of the purchased call options or warrants related to the convertible senior notes. On July 1, 2011, the Company entered into a 364 day accounts receivable securitization facility. The facility provides the Company with up to $1.0 billion in liquidity. Under the facility, the Companys U.S. originated trade accounts receivable are sold to a wholly owned bankruptcy remote entity which then sells an undivided interest in the receivable as a collateral for any borrowings under the facility. Any borrowings under the facility will be recorded as secured borrowings. As of August 24, 2011, the Company had not used the facility. This facility expands the Companys access to liquidity through efficient use of its balance sheet assets. The Companys credit facilities and certain debentures require the Company to comply with specified financial and non financial covenants including maintenance of minimum tangible net worth as well as limitations related to incurring liens, secured debt, and certain other financing arrangements. The Company is in compliance with these covenants as of June 30, 2011. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements In the normal course of business, the Company enters into contracts and commitments which obligate the Company to make payments in the future. The following table sets forth the Companys significant future obligations by time period. Purchases include commodity based contracts entered into in the normal course of business, which are further described in Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, energy related purchase contracts entered into in the normal course of business, and other purchase obligations related to the Companys normal business activities. The following table does not include unrecognized income tax benefits of $79 million as of June 30, 2011 as the Company is unable to reasonably estimate the timing of settlement. Where applicable, information included in the Companys consolidated financial statements and notes is cross referenced in this table. Payments Due by Period Contractual Item 8 Note Less than 1 3 3 5 More than Obligations Reference Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years (In millions) Purchases Inventories $ 17,457 $ 16,593 $ 807 $ 43 $ 14 Energy 456 340 76 22 18 Other 398 168 186 35 9 Total purchases 18,311 17,101 1,069 100 41 Short term debt 1,875 1,875 Long term debt Note 8 8,444 178 2,875 46 5,345 Estimated interest payments 7,177 384 690 646 5,457 Operating leases Note 14 1,163 233 334 225 371 Estimated pension and other postretirement plan contributions (1) Note 15 167 55 19 21 72 Total $ 37,137 $ 19,826 $ 4,987 $ 1,038 $ 11,286 (1) Includes pension contributions of $47 million for fiscal 2012. The Company is unable to estimate the amount of pension contributions beyond fiscal year 2012. For more information concerning the Companys pension and other postretirement plans, see Note 15 in Item 8. At June 30, 2011, the Company estimates it will spend approximately $2.8 billion through calendar year 2014 to complete currently approved capital projects which are not included in the table above. The Company also has outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds of $620 million at June 30, 2011. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) In addition, the Company has entered into agreements, primarily debt guarantee agreements related to equity method investees, which could obligate the Company to make future payments. The Companys liability under these agreements arises only if the primary entity fails to perform its contractual obligation. The Company has collateral for a portion of these contingent obligations. At June 30, 2011, these contingent obligations totaled approximately $121 million. Amounts outstanding for the primary entity under these contingent obligations were $69 million at June 30, 2011. Critical Accounting Policies The process of preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the carrying values of the Companys assets and liabilities as well as the recognition of revenues and expenses. These estimates and judgments are based on the Companys historical experience and managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Certain of the Companys accounting policies are considered critical, as these policies are important to the depiction of the Companys financial statements and require significant or complex judgment by management. Management has discussed with the Companys Audit Committee the development, selection, disclosure, and application of these critical accounting policies. Following are the accounting policies management considers critical to the Companys financial statements. Inventories and Derivatives Certain of the Companys merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, forward fixed price purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts are valued at estimated market values. These merchandisable agricultural commodities are freely traded, have quoted market prices, and may be sold without significant additional processing. Management estimates market value based on exchange quoted prices, adjusted for differences in local markets. Changes in the market values of these inventories and contracts are recognized in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. If management used different methods or factors to estimate market value, amounts reported as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. Additionally, if market conditions change subsequent to year end, amounts reported in future periods as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. The Company, from time to time, uses derivative contracts designated as cash flow hedges to fix the purchase price of anticipated volumes of commodities to be purchased and processed in a future month, to fix the purchase price of the Companys anticipated natural gas requirements for certain production facilities, and to fix the sales price of anticipated volumes of ethanol. The change in the market value of such derivative contracts has historically been, and is expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold and net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. If it is determined that the derivative instruments used are no longer effective at offsetting changes in the price of the hedged item, then the changes in the market value of these exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts would be recorded in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. See Note 4 in Item 8 for additional information. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Employee Benefit Plans The Company provides substantially all U.S. employees and employees at certain international subsidiaries with pension benefits. Eligible U.S. employees with five or more years of service prior to January 1, 2009 participate in a defined benefit pension plan. Eligible U.S. employees hired on or after January 1, 2009 (and eligible salaried employees with less than five years of service prior to January 1, 2009) participate in a cash balance pension formula. The Company provides eligible U.S. employees who retire under qualifying conditions with access to postretirement health care, at full cost to the retiree (certain employees are grandfathered into subsidized coverage). In order to measure the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans, management makes several estimates and assumptions, including interest rates used to discount certain liabilities, rates of return on assets set aside to fund these plans, rates of compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and anticipated future health care costs. These estimates and assumptions are based on the Companys historical experience combined with managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Management also uses third party actuaries to assist in measuring the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans. If management used different estimates and assumptions regarding these plans, the funded status of the plans could vary significantly, and the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. See Note 15 in Item 8 for additional information. Income Taxes The Company frequently faces challenges from U.S. and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company records reserves for estimates of potential additional tax owed by the Company. As an example, a subsidiary of the Company received tax assessments in the amount of $665 million consisting of tax, penalty, and interest (adjusted for interest and variation in currency exchange rates) from the Brazilian Federal Revenue Service challenging the deductibility of commodity hedging losses incurred by the Company for tax years 2004, 2006 and 2007. The Company evaluated its tax position regarding these hedging transactions and concluded, based in part upon advice from Brazilian legal counsel, that it was appropriate to recognize the tax benefits of these deductions (See Note 13 in Item 8 for additional information). Deferred tax assets represent items to be used as tax deductions or credits in future tax returns, and the related tax benefit has already been recognized in the Companys income statement. The realization of the Companys deferred tax assets is dependent upon future taxable income in specific tax jurisdictions, the timing and amount of which are uncertain. The Company evaluates all available positive and negative evidence including estimated future reversals of existing temporary differences, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies, and recent financial results. Valuation allowances related to these deferred tax assets have been established to the extent the realization of the tax benefit is not likely. To the extent the Company were to favorably resolve matters for which accruals have been established or be required to pay amounts in excess of the aforementioned reserves, the Companys effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be impacted. Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and the Companys share of the undistributed earnings of affiliated corporate joint venture companies accounted for on the equity method amounting to approximately $8.2 billion at June 30, 2011, are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned factors may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and cash flows of the Companys assets in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its factories. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment, technology, and companies related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. Assets are written down after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these assets, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Goodwill and other intangible assets The Company accounts for its goodwill and other intangible assets in accordance with ASC Topic 350, Intangibles Goodwill and Other. Under this standard, goodwill and intangible assets deemed to have indefinite lives are not amortized but are subject to annual impairment tests. The Company evaluates goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year or whenever there are indicators that the carrying value of the assets may not be fully recoverable. Definite lived intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its impairment tests, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Valuation of Marketable Securities and Investments in Affiliates The Company classifies the majority of its marketable securities as available for sale and carries these securities at fair value. The Company applies the equity method for investments over which the Company has the ability to exercise significant influence. These investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings and are adjusted, where appropriate, for amortizable basis differences between the investment balance and the underlying net assets of the investee. For publicly traded securities, the fair value of the Companys investments is readily available based on quoted market prices. For non publicly traded securities, managements assessment of fair value is based on valuation methodologies including discounted cash flows and estimates of sales proceeds. In the event of a decline in fair value of an investment below carrying value, management is required to determine if the decline in fair value is other than temporary. In evaluating the nature of a decline in the fair value of an investment, management considers the market conditions, trends of earnings, discounted cash flows, trading volumes, and other key measures of the investment as well as the Companys ability and intent to hold the investment. When such a decline in value is deemed to be other than temporary, an impairment loss is recognized in the current period operating results to the extent of the decline. See Notes 5 and 6 in Item 8 for information regarding the Companys marketable securities and investments in affiliates. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these marketable securities, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in: commodity market prices as they relate to the Companys net commodity position, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and prices of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to factors such as changes in weather conditions, disease, plantings, government programs and policies, competition, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. The Company enters into derivative and non derivative contracts with the primary objective of managing the Companys exposure to adverse price movements in the agricultural commodities used for, and produced in, our business operations. The Company will also use exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the volatility of the relationship between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contracts defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company, from time to time, enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold or net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. The Companys commodity position consists of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, related purchase and sales contracts, energy and freight contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts including contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements, net of sales. The fair value of the Companys commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing all of the commodity positions at quoted market prices for the period, where available, or utilizing a close proxy. The Company has established metrics to monitor the amount of market risk exposure, which consist of volumetric limits, and value at risk (VaR) limits. VaR measures the potential loss, at a 95% confidence level, that could be incurred over a one year period. Volumetric limits are monitored daily and VaR calculations and sensitivity analysis are monitored weekly. In addition to measuring the hypothetical loss resulting from an adverse two standard deviation move in market prices (assuming no correlations) over a one year period using VaR, sensitivity analysis is performed measuring the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in market prices. The highest, lowest, and average weekly position for each of the last two years together with the market risk from a hypothetical 10% adverse price change is as follows: 2011 2010 Long/(Short) Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest position $ 2,388 $ 239 $ 738 $ 74 Lowest position 368 37 (183 ) (18 ) Average position 1,644 164 216 22 The change in fair value of the average position for 2011 compared to 2010 was principally the result of changes in average quantities underlying the weekly commodity position. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) Currencies The Company conducts its business in over 75 countries. For the majority of the Companys subsidiaries located outside the United States, the local currency is the functional currency. To reduce the risks associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, the Company enters into currency exchange contracts to minimize its foreign currency position related to transactions denominated primarily in Euro, British pound, Canadian dollar, and Brazilian real currencies. These currencies represent the major functional or local currencies in which recurring business transactions occur. The Company does not use currency exchange contracts as hedges against amounts permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The currency exchange contracts used are forward contracts, swaps with banks, exchange traded futures contracts, and over the counter options. The changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $8.2 billion at June 30, 2011, and $6.4 billion at June 30, 2010. This increase is due to the appreciation of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar and an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The potential loss in fair value, which would principally be recognized in Other Comprehensive Income, resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $837 million and $639 million for 2011 and 2010, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 50 basis points decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2011 2010 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 9,108 $ 7,700 Excess of fair value over carrying value 842 870 Market risk 333 289 The increase in fair value of long term debt in 2011 resulted principally from the issuance of $1.5 billion of 18 month floating rate notes in February 2011. 
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) The Companys Corn Processing segment is engaged in corn wet milling and dry milling activities, with its asset base primarily located in the central part of the United States. The Corn Processing segment converts corn into sweeteners and starches, and bioproducts. Its products include ingredients used in the food and beverage industry including sweeteners, starch, syrup, glucose, and dextrose. Dextrose and starch are used by the Corn Processing segment as feedstocks for its bioproducts operations. By fermentation of dextrose, the Corn Processing segment produces alcohol, amino acids, and other specialty food and animal feed ingredients. Ethyl alcohol is produced by the Company for industrial use as ethanol or as beverage grade. Ethanol, in gasoline, increases octane and is used as an extender and oxygenate. Bioproducts also include amino acids such as lysine and threonine that are vital compounds used in swine feeds to produce leaner animals and in poultry feeds to enhance the speed and efficiency of poultry production. Corn gluten feed and meal, as well as distillers grains, are produced for use as animal feed ingredients. Corn germ, a by product of the wet milling process, is further processed into vegetable oil and protein meal. Other Corn Processing products include citric and lactic acids, lactates, sorbitol, xanthan gum, and glycols which are used in various food and industrial products. The Corn Processing segment includes the activities of the Companys Brazilian sugarcane operations, propylene and ethylene glycol facility, a bioplastic facility, and other equity investments in renewable plastics. This segment includes the Companys share of the results of its equity investments in Almidones Mexicanos S.A., Eaststarch C.V., and Red Star Yeast Company LLC. The Agricultural Services segment utilizes its extensive U.S. grain elevator and global transportation network to buy, store, clean, and transport agricultural commodities, such as oilseeds, corn, wheat, milo, oats, rice, and barley, and resells these commodities primarily as food and feed ingredients and as raw materials for the agricultural processing industry. Agricultural Services grain sourcing and transportation network provides reliable and efficient services to the Companys customers and agricultural processing operations. Agricultural Services transportation network capabilities include truck, rail, barge, port, and ocean going vessel handling and freight services. The Agricultural Services segment includes the activities of Alfred C. Toepfer International, an 80% owned global merchant of agricultural commodities and processed products. The Agricultural Services segment also includes the Companys share of the results of its Kalama Export Company joint venture, activities related to the processing and distributing of formula feeds and animal health and nutrition products, and the procuring, processing, and distributing of edible beans. Other includes the Companys remaining processing operations, consisting of activities related to processing agricultural commodities into food ingredient products such as wheat into wheat flour, and cocoa into chocolate and cocoa products. Other also includes financial activities related to banking, captive insurance, futures commission merchant activities, private equity fund investments, and the Companys share of the results of its equity investment in Gruma S.A.B de C.V. Corporate results principally include the impact of LIFO related inventory adjustments, unallocated corporate expenses, unallocated net interest costs, and the after tax elimination of income attributable to mandatorily redeemable interests in consolidated subsidiaries. Operating Performance Indicators The Companys oilseeds processing, agricultural services, and wheat processing operations are principally agricultural commodity based businesses where changes in selling prices move in relationship to changes in prices of the commodity based agricultural raw materials. Therefore, changes in agricultural commodity prices have relatively equal impacts on both net sales and other operating income and cost of products sold. Thus, changes in margins and gross profit of these businesses do not necessarily correspond to the changes in net sales and other operating income amounts. The Companys corn processing operations and certain other food and animal feed processing operations also utilize agricultural commodities (or products derived from agricultural commodities) as raw materials. In these operations, agricultural commodity market price changes can result in significant fluctuations in cost of products sold, and such price changes cannot necessarily be passed directly through to the selling price of the finished products. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) The Company conducts its business in over 75 countries. For the majority of the Companys subsidiaries located outside the United States, the local currency is the functional currency. Revenues and expenses denominated in foreign currencies are translated into U.S. dollars at the weighted average exchange rates for the applicable periods. For the majority of the Companys business activities in Brazil, the functional currency is the U.S. dollar, however certain transactions, including taxes, occur in local currency and require conversion to the functional currency. Fluctuations in the exchange rates of foreign currencies, primarily the Euro, British pound, Canadian dollar, and Brazilian real, as compared to the U.S. dollar can result in corresponding fluctuations in the U.S. dollar value of revenues and expenses reported by the Company. The Company measures the performance of its business segments using key financial metrics such as segment operating profit, return on invested capital, and cost per metric ton. The Companys operating results can vary significantly due to changes in factors such as fluctuations in energy prices, weather conditions, crop plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth, general global economic conditions, changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. Due to these unpredictable factors, the Company does not provide forward looking information in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 2011 Compared to 2010 As an agricultural commodity based business, the Company is subject to a variety of market factors which affect the Companys operating results. In 2011, prices for certain agricultural commodities were higher in response to growing global demand and tighter crop supplies. The projections of lower 2011 carryover stocks for certain key commodities, coupled with regional crop supply dislocations for certain commodities, also led to high commodity price volatility. Global demand for agricultural commodities grew in 2011, resulting in increased sales volumes for most of the Companys products. The large 2010 North American harvest resulted in global merchandising, handling, and processing opportunities. Protein meal markets for commercial livestock producers in the U.S., particularly poultry producers, faced challenging conditions. Biodiesel markets in Europe and South America, together with the 2011 extension of the U.S. biodiesel blenders credit, helped support global demand for refined and crude vegetable oils. Sweeteners and starches demand remained strong in 2011 due primarily to U.S. exports of sweeteners and improved demand for industrial starches. Ethanol sales volumes, including increased volumes as the Companys new dry mills ramped up, were supported by favorable gasoline blending economics in the U.S. and good export demand. Net earnings increased $106 million to $2.0 billion due principally to a $782 million increase in segment operating profit partially offset by a negative impact from changing LIFO inventory valuations and higher income taxes. In 2011, the Company successfully managed through significant increases in market prices for most of its agricultural commodity raw materials, resulting in increased segment operating profit. Earnings before income taxes includes charges of $368 million from the effect of increasing agricultural commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuation reserves, compared to credits of $42 million in the prior year caused by decreasing agricultural commodity prices. Income taxes increased $331 million due to a higher effective income tax rate and higher earnings before income taxes. The effective income tax rate of 33.1% for 2011 was the result of changes in the geographic mix of earnings and unfavorable specific tax items. The fully diluted earnings per share calculation for 2011 was impacted by the completion of the Companys debt remarketing related to the $1.75 billion Equity Units. While the approximately 44 million new common shares related to the $1.75 billion Equity Units were not issued until June 1, 2011, the if converted method of accounting for diluted earnings per share required diluted EPS to be calculated as if the Company issued the shares on January 1, 2011, and this assumption resulted in a dilutive impact of $0.04 on earnings per share (See Note 9 in the accompanying consolidated financial statements). Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Analysis of Statements of Earnings Prior year net sales and other operating income by segment has been reclassified to conform to the current years presentation resulting in reclassified net sales and other operating income at the segment level with no impact to total net sales and other operating income or operating profit. Net sales and other operating income by segment are as follows: 2011 2010 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing and Origination $ 16,924 $ 14,487 $ 2,437 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel and Other 9,476 7,133 2,343 Asia 262 190 72 Total Oilseeds Processing 26,662 21,810 4,852 Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 3,766 3,264 502 Bioproducts 6,142 4,610 1,532 Total Corn Processing 9,908 7,874 2,034 Agricultural Services Merchandising and Handling 37,705 26,589 11,116 Transportation 222 167 55 Total Agricultural Services 37,927 26,756 11,171 Other Processing 6,069 5,147 922 Financial 110 95 15 Total Other 6,179 5,242 937 Total $ 80,676 $ 61,682 $ 18,994 Net sales and other operating income increased $19.0 billion, or 31%, to $80.7 billion. Net sales and other operating income increased $14.2 billion due to higher average selling prices, primarily related to higher underlying commodity costs, and increased $4.8 billion due to increased sales volumes, including sales volumes from acquisitions. Agricultural Services sales increased 42% to $37.9 billion due to higher average selling prices of agricultural commodities and higher global sales volumes. Oilseeds Processing sales increased 22% to $26.7 billion primarily due to higher average selling prices for vegetable oils, soybeans, biodiesel, and protein meal. Corn Processing sales increased 26% to $9.9 billion due to higher average selling prices and increased sales volumes of ethanol and other corn products, in part due to the Companys two new ethanol dry mills coming on line. Other sales increased 18% to $6.2 billion primarily due to higher average selling prices of cocoa and cocoa products and wheat flour; and increased sales volumes of cocoa and cocoa products. ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Cost of products sold increased 32% to $76.4 billion due to higher costs of agricultural commodities, negative impacts resulting from changes in LIFO inventory valuations, and higher manufacturing costs. Cost of products sold includes charges of $368 million from the effect of increasing agricultural commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuation reserves, compared to credits of $42 million in the prior year caused by decreasing agricultural commodity prices. Manufacturing expenses increased $410 million due primarily to higher processed volumes, including the volumes of the Companys new greenfield operations coming on line, and higher average unit costs for certain chemicals and fuels used in the Companys processing and transportation operations. During the second quarter of fiscal 2011, the Company updated its estimates for service lives of certain of its machinery and equipment assets. This change in estimate resulted in a $133 million decrease in depreciation expense compared to the amount of depreciation expense the Company would have recorded using the previously estimated service lives. Manufacturing expenses included $94 million in fiscal 2011 related to the start up of new plants compared to $110 million in the prior year. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased 15% to $1.6 billion. This increase was due to higher employee related costs and higher administrative expenses. Higher employee related costs principally reflect the increase in number of employees during the year and included higher salaries and wages, higher accruals for performance based compensation and higher benefit expenses. Equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates declined 3% to $542 million. The decline in earnings from the Companys equity investee, Wilmar, were partially offset by higher earnings of the Companys equity investee, Gruma, in part due to a gain on disposition of assets. Interest income increased 8% to $136 million principally resulting from higher interest earned on advances to affiliates. Interest expense increased 14% to $482 million. Interest costs capitalized as a component of major construction projects in progress was $7 million compared to $75 million in the prior year. Interest incurred on long term debt declined $24 million as a result of debt retirements while interest incurred on short term debt increased $15 million due to higher average borrowings driven by higher working capital requirements. Other (income) expense net increased $255 million primarily due to the $71 million gain resulting from the revaluation of the Companys previously held equity interest in Golden Peanut upon acquisition of the remaining 50% interest, gains on interest rate swaps of $30 million compared to a loss of $59 million in the prior year, and a decrease in charges related to early extinguishment of debt from $75 million in the prior year to $15 million in the current year. Income taxes increased $331 million to $997 million due to a higher effective income tax rate and higher pretax earnings. The Companys effective income tax rate increased to 33.1% during 2011 compared to 25.8% in fiscal 2010. The increase in the current year rate is primarily due to a geographic mix of earnings that shifted more to the U.S., a higher U.S. effective income tax rate, income tax expense associated with foreign currency re measurement of non monetary assets in Brazil, and adjustments to deferred income tax balances. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Operating profit by segment is as follows: 2011 2010 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing and Origination $ 1,013 $ 818 $ 195 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel and Other 329 291 38 Asia 182 291 (109 ) Total Oilseeds Processing 1,524 1,400 124 Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 320 529 (209 ) Bioproducts 742 193 549 Total Corn Processing 1,062 722 340 Agricultural Services Merchandising and Handling 818 583 235 Transportation 104 85 19 Total Agricultural Services 922 668 254 Other Processing 474 403 71 Financial 39 46 (7 ) Total Other 513 449 64 Total Segment Operating Profit 4,021 3,239 782 Corporate (see below) (1,006 ) (654 ) (352 ) Earnings Before Income Taxes $ 3,015 $ 2,585 $ 430 Corporate results are as follows: 2011 2010 Change (In millions) LIFO credit (charge) $ (368 ) $ 42 $ (410 ) Unallocated interest expense net (335 ) (283 ) (52 ) Unallocated corporate costs (326 ) (266 ) (60 ) Charges on early extinguishment of debt (8 ) (75 ) 67 Gains (losses) on interest rate swaps 30 (59 ) 89 Other 1 (13 ) 14 Total Corporate $ (1,006 ) $ (654 ) $ (352 ) Oilseeds Processing operating profit increased 9% to $1.5 billion. Crushing and origination results increased $195 million to $1.0 billion, which include the $71 million gain on the revaluation of the Companys equity interest in Golden Peanut as a result of the acquisition of the remaining 50% interest. Improved North American crushing results, particularly for cotton seed and canola, were partially offset by lower crushing margins in South America and Europe. Margins globally were enhanced by good positioning and by improved origination results. In South America, fertilizer results improved due to higher margins and volumes. Refining, packaging, biodiesel and other results increased $38 million to $329 million due principally to higher packaged oils margins and improved North American and European biodiesel results. Asia results decreased $109 million due principally to decreased earnings from the Companys equity investee, Wilmar. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Corn Processing operating profit increased 47% to $1.1 billion, which includes favorable impacts from ownership positions, which were allocated to sweeteners and starches and bioproducts based on total grind. Sweeteners and starches operating profit decreased $209 million to $320 million due to higher net corn costs partially offset by higher sales volumes. Sales volumes increased due to U.S. export shipments of sweeteners and improved U.S. demand for industrial starches. Bioproducts operating profit improved $549 million primarily due to higher ethanol sales volumes and higher average selling prices leading to increased ethanol and lysine margins. Bioproducts margins were also enhanced by favorable corn ownership positions. Bioproducts results included startup costs related to the Companys new plants of $94 million in the current year compared to $107 million in the prior year. Agricultural Services operating profit increased 38% to $922 million. Merchandising and handling results increased due to higher corn and wheat sales volumes and higher margins. A large 2010 U.S. harvest combined with strong international demand resulted in higher U.S. export shipments. Merchandising and handling results this year include an insurance recovery of $67 million related to property damage and business interruption resulting from an October 2008 explosion at the Companys Destrehan, Louisiana export facility. International merchandising results were weaker in part due to positions impacted by unexpected shifts in crop supply caused by weather conditions and government actions in the Black Sea region. Transportation results increased $19 million to $104 million primarily due to higher barge freight rates and higher barge utilization levels, in part due to higher U.S. export volumes. Other operating profit increased 14% to $513 million. Other processing operating results improved in the Companys wheat milling and cocoa business units due principally to increased equity earnings from the Companys equity investee, Gruma, which include a $78 million gain related to the disposal of Gruma assets. Other financial operating profit decreased $7 million primarily due to higher captive insurance loss provisions principally related to a $67 million loss related to the Companys Destrehan, Louisiana export facility insurance claim. Corporate results decreased $352 million primarily due to the negative impact from changing LIFO inventory valuations and higher unallocated interest expense net. The effects of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory reserves resulted in charges of $368 million compared to credits of $42 million for the prior year. Corporate unallocated interest expense increased $52 million mostly due to lower capitalization of interest costs for construction projects in progress. Partially offsetting the higher LIFO and unallocated interest costs were $30 million of gains on interest rate swaps compared to prior year losses on interest rate swaps of $59 million. In addition, the prior year included charges of $75 million on early debt extinguishment compared to $8 million of similar charges in the current year. 2010 Compared to 2009 As an agricultural commodity based business, the Company is subject to a variety of market factors which affect the Companys operating results. Market expectations throughout most of fiscal 2010 for fewer global crop supply and demand imbalances, coupled with continuing uncertainty about short term demand, led to generally lower and less volatile agricultural commodity market prices and conditions. In addition, the late, extended U.S. harvest reduced profit opportunities. North American oilseed exports and U.S. crushing volumes were enhanced in 2010 by the poor supply of 2009 crop year soybeans in South America. Increased government mandates for the use of biodiesel in South America and Europe resulted in increased biodiesel demand and helped keep overall demand for refined and crude vegetable oil steady in these regions. However, in North America, demand for vegetable oils remained weak in 2010 due to low consumption of oils in the food service and biodiesel industries, in part due to the expiration of the biodiesel blending credit in the U.S. on January 1, 2010. Soybean protein meal demand improved, particularly in Asia. Market prices for corn decreased in 2010 resulting in lower raw material costs for corn processing and decreased average selling prices for sweeteners and starches. Lower energy, fuel and chemical costs per unit positively impacted the Companys manufacturing costs. More favorable ethanol blending economics together with increased ethanol merchandising activity resulted in increased demand, higher ethanol sales volumes, and improved margins. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Earnings before income taxes for 2010 include a credit of $42 million from the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations, compared to a credit of $517 million in 2009. Income taxes decreased $146 million due to a lower effective income tax rate, partially offset by higher pretax earnings. Income taxes for 2009 included a $158 million charge resulting from the restructuring of a holding company in which the Company holds a portion of its equity investment in Wilmar. Analysis of Statements of Earnings Net sales and other operating income by segment for 2010 and 2009 have been reclassified to conform to the current years presentation resulting in reclassified net sales and other operating income at the segment level with no impact to total net sales and other operating income or operating profit. Net sales and other operating income by segment are as follows: 2010 2009 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing and Origination $ 14,487 $ 15,013 $ (526 ) Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel and Other 7,133 8,756 (1,623 ) Asia 190 179 11 Total Oilseeds Processing 21,810 23,948 (2,138 ) Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 3,264 3,690 (426 ) Bioproducts 4,610 3,938 672 Total Corn Processing 7,874 7,628 246 Agricultural Services Merchandising and Handling 26,589 32,007 (5,418 ) Transportation 167 242 (75 ) Total Agricultural Services 26,756 32,249 (5,493 ) Other Processing 5,147 5,272 (125 ) Financial 95 110 (15 ) Total Other 5,242 5,382 (140 ) Total $ 61,682 $ 69,207 $ (7,525 ) Net sales and other operating income decreased 11% to $61.7 billion due principally to lower average selling prices in 2010 in line with year over year declines in underlying commodity costs. Oilseeds Processing sales decreased 9% to $21.8 billion, due principally to lower average selling prices for soybeans, protein meal, refined oil, and biodiesel partially offset by increased sales volumes of soybeans and fertilizer. Corn Processing sales increased 3% to $7.9 billion primarily as a result of increased sales volumes of ethanol and lysine partially offset by lower average selling prices of ethanol, sweeteners, and starches. Agricultural Services sales decreased 17% to $26.8 billion, due to lower average selling prices, in line with year over year declines in underlying commodity prices and lower sales volumes. Other sales decreased 3% to $5.2 billion, primarily due to lower average selling prices of wheat flour partially offset by increased wheat flour sales volumes and higher average selling prices and sales volumes for cocoa products. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Cost of products sold decreased 11% to $57.8 billion, due principally to decreased agricultural commodity costs including the impact of changes in LIFO inventory valuations which reduced cost of products sold by $42 million in 2010 compared to $517 million in 2009. Manufacturing expenses decreased 1% or $60 million, primarily due to lower energy, chemical and fuel costs partially offset by higher employee related costs and a $124 million increase in depreciation and amortization expense. In 2010, manufacturing expenses included additional costs associated with the Companys new greenfield plants. Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased 1% to $1.4 billion, due principally to decreased provisions for doubtful accounts partially offset by increased expenses for legal, professional, and commercial services. Equity earnings of unconsolidated affiliates increased $416 million to $561 million primarily due to the absence of a non cash charge of $275 million in 2009 related to currency derivative losses of the Companys equity investee, Gruma S.A.B. de C.V. Interest income declined $55 million to $126 million primarily due to lower average interest rates. Interest expense declined $47 million to $422 million primarily due to lower average interest rates. Other expense net increased $91 million due to pre tax charges of $75 million related to the early extinguishment of debt and $59 million for unrealized losses on interest rate swaps (for more information on the charges related to the early extinguishment of debt, see Note 8 in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data). Income taxes decreased $146 million due to a lower effective income tax rate partially offset by higher pretax earnings. The Companys effective income tax rate during 2010 was 25.8%. In 2009, the effective income tax rate was 32.5% which included $158 million of income tax charges related to the partial restructuring of the holding company structure through which the Company holds a portion of its equity investment in Wilmar. Excluding these Wilmar charges, the Companys effective income tax rate for 2009 was 26.2%. For more information concerning Wilmar tax matters see Note 13 in Item 8. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Operating profit by segment is as follows: 2010 2009 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing and Origination $ 818 $ 767 $ 51 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel and Other 291 265 26 Asia 291 248 43 Total Oilseeds Processing 1,400 1,280 120 Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 529 500 29 Bioproducts 193 (315 ) 508 Total Corn Processing 722 185 537 Agricultural Services Merchandising and Handling 583 832 (249 ) Transportation 85 162 (77 ) Total Agricultural Services 668 994 (326 ) Other Processing 403 51 352 Financial 46 (57 ) 103 Total Other 449 (6 ) 455 Total Segment Operating Profit 3,239 2,453 786 Corporate (see below) (654 ) 47 (701 ) Earnings Before Income Taxes $ 2,585 $ 2,500 $ 85 Corporate results are as follows: 2010 2009 Change (In millions) LIFO credit $ 42 $ 517 $ (475 ) Unallocated interest expense net (283 ) (192 ) (91 ) Unallocated corporate costs (266 ) (252 ) (14 ) Charges on early extinguishment of debt (75 ) (75 ) Unrealized losses on interest rate swaps (59 ) (59 ) Other (13 ) (26 ) 13 Total Corporate $ (654 ) $ 47 $ (701 ) Oilseeds Processing operating profit increased 9% to $1.4 billion. Crushing and origination results increased $51 million due to higher North American soybean crushing margins and favorable soft seed commodity positioning, partially offset by lower soybean crushing margins in Europe and South America. Refining, packaging, biodiesel and other operating profit increased $26 million due primarily to higher South American biodiesel results and improved margins in Europe. Oilseeds processing results in Asia increased $43 million to $291 million due principally to improved equity earnings of Wilmar. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Corn Processing operating profit increased $537 million to $722 million. Bioproducts operating profit increased $508 million due to improved ethanol and lysine sales volumes and improved ethanol margins resulting from lower net corn costs and decreased manufacturing costs. Ethanol sales volumes increased due to favorable gasoline blending economics and increased merchandising activity. Sweeteners and starches operating profit increased $29 million due to lower net corn and manufacturing costs due principally to lower energy and chemical prices. These lower manufacturing costs were partially offset by lower average selling prices. Agricultural Services operating profit decreased $326 million to $668 million. Merchandising and handling results decreased $249 million. Enhanced volume and margin opportunities created by 2009s volatile commodity markets and tight credit markets did not recur. Volumes and margins in 2010 benefited from strong demand for U.S. soybean exports following the short South American 2009 crop. Transportation results decreased $77 million due to lower barge freight rates and decreased barge utilization levels resulting from weaker U.S. economic conditions and the late, extended North American harvest. Other operating profit increased $455 million to $449 million. Other processing operating profit increased $352 million due to improved equity earnings from the Companys investment in Gruma, improved wheat milling margins, and improved cocoa processing results. Financial operating profit increased $103 million due primarily to the absence of losses experienced in 2009 from managed fund investments and captive insurance operations. Corporate results decreased $701 million. The effects of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations resulted in a credit of $42 million for the year ended June 30, 2010, compared to a credit of $517 million for the year ended June 30, 2009. Unallocated interest expense net increased $91 million reflecting a reduction in corporate interest income caused by lower short term interest rates and lower working capital requirements of the operating segments. In March 2010, the Company repurchased $500 million of long term debt which generated a $75 million pretax charge on early extinguishment of debt. In connection with a debt remarketing planned for 2011, the Company entered into interest rate swaps to fix the interest rate on a portion of the planned remarketing which resulted in $59 million of unrealized losses on interest rate swaps. Liquidity and Capital Resources A Company objective is to have sufficient liquidity, balance sheet strength, and financial flexibility to fund the operating and capital requirements of a capital intensive agricultural commodity based business. The primary source of funds to finance the Companys operations and capital expenditures is cash generated by operations. In addition, the Company maintains a commercial paper borrowing facility and has access to equity and debt capital from public and private sources in both U.S. and international markets. At June 30, 2011, the Company had $1.4 billion of cash, cash equivalents, and short term marketable securities and a current ratio, defined as current assets divided by current liabilities, of 2.1 to 1. Included in working capital is $7.1 billion of readily marketable commodity inventories. Cash used in operating activities was $2.3 billion for the year compared to cash provided by operating activities of $2.7 billion last year. Working capital increased in the current year due principally to higher agricultural commodity market prices. Cash used in investing activities of $1.7 billion, principally for capital expenditures, businesses acquired, and investments, was in line with last year. Cash provided by financing activities was $3.6 billion for the year compared to cash used in financing activities of $1.0 billion last year. Net borrowings increased primarily to fund higher working capital. Short term borrowings increased due principally to higher commercial paper borrowings, and long term borrowings increased primarily as a result of the issuance of $1.5 billion of 18 month floating rate notes in February 2011. In addition, the Company issued common stock and received $1.75 billion under the forward stock purchase component of the Companys Equity Units (see Note 8 in Item 8). At June 30, 2011, the Companys capital resources included net worth of $18.8 billion and lines of credit totaling $6.9 billion, of which $5.7 billion was unused. The Companys ratio of long term debt to total capital (the sum of the Companys long term debt and shareholders equity) was 30% at June 30, 2011 and 32% at June 30, 2010. This ratio is a measure of the Companys long term indebtedness and is an indicator of financial flexibility. Of the Companys total lines of credit, $4.6 billion support a commercial paper borrowing facility, against which there were $620 million of commercial paper outstanding at June 30, 2011. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) The Company has outstanding $1.15 billion principal amount of convertible senior notes. As of June 30, 2011, none of the conditions permitting conversion of these notes had been satisfied. The Company has purchased call options and warrants intended to reduce the potential shareholder dilution upon future conversion of the notes. As of June 30, 2011, the market price of the Companys common stock was not greater than the exercise price of the purchased call options or warrants related to the convertible senior notes. On July 1, 2011, the Company entered into a 364 day accounts receivable securitization facility. The facility provides the Company with up to $1.0 billion in liquidity. Under the facility, the Companys U.S. originated trade accounts receivable are sold to a wholly owned bankruptcy remote entity which then sells an undivided interest in the receivable as a collateral for any borrowings under the facility. Any borrowings under the facility will be recorded as secured borrowings. As of August 24, 2011, the Company had not used the facility. This facility expands the Companys access to liquidity through efficient use of its balance sheet assets. The Companys credit facilities and certain debentures require the Company to comply with specified financial and non financial covenants including maintenance of minimum tangible net worth as well as limitations related to incurring liens, secured debt, and certain other financing arrangements. The Company is in compliance with these covenants as of June 30, 2011. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements In the normal course of business, the Company enters into contracts and commitments which obligate the Company to make payments in the future. The following table sets forth the Companys significant future obligations by time period. Purchases include commodity based contracts entered into in the normal course of business, which are further described in Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, energy related purchase contracts entered into in the normal course of business, and other purchase obligations related to the Companys normal business activities. The following table does not include unrecognized income tax benefits of $79 million as of June 30, 2011 as the Company is unable to reasonably estimate the timing of settlement. Where applicable, information included in the Companys consolidated financial statements and notes is cross referenced in this table. Payments Due by Period Contractual Item 8 Note Less than 1 3 3 5 More than Obligations Reference Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years (In millions) Purchases Inventories $ 17,457 $ 16,593 $ 807 $ 43 $ 14 Energy 456 340 76 22 18 Other 398 168 186 35 9 Total purchases 18,311 17,101 1,069 100 41 Short term debt 1,875 1,875 Long term debt Note 8 8,444 178 2,875 46 5,345 Estimated interest payments 7,177 384 690 646 5,457 Operating leases Note 14 1,163 233 334 225 371 Estimated pension and other postretirement plan contributions (1) Note 15 167 55 19 21 72 Total $ 37,137 $ 19,826 $ 4,987 $ 1,038 $ 11,286 (1) Includes pension contributions of $47 million for fiscal 2012. The Company is unable to estimate the amount of pension contributions beyond fiscal year 2012. For more information concerning the Companys pension and other postretirement plans, see Note 15 in Item 8. At June 30, 2011, the Company estimates it will spend approximately $2.8 billion through calendar year 2014 to complete currently approved capital projects which are not included in the table above. The Company also has outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds of $620 million at June 30, 2011. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) In addition, the Company has entered into agreements, primarily debt guarantee agreements related to equity method investees, which could obligate the Company to make future payments. The Companys liability under these agreements arises only if the primary entity fails to perform its contractual obligation. The Company has collateral for a portion of these contingent obligations. At June 30, 2011, these contingent obligations totaled approximately $121 million. Amounts outstanding for the primary entity under these contingent obligations were $69 million at June 30, 2011. Critical Accounting Policies The process of preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the carrying values of the Companys assets and liabilities as well as the recognition of revenues and expenses. These estimates and judgments are based on the Companys historical experience and managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Certain of the Companys accounting policies are considered critical, as these policies are important to the depiction of the Companys financial statements and require significant or complex judgment by management. Management has discussed with the Companys Audit Committee the development, selection, disclosure, and application of these critical accounting policies. Following are the accounting policies management considers critical to the Companys financial statements. Inventories and Derivatives Certain of the Companys merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, forward fixed price purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts are valued at estimated market values. These merchandisable agricultural commodities are freely traded, have quoted market prices, and may be sold without significant additional processing. Management estimates market value based on exchange quoted prices, adjusted for differences in local markets. Changes in the market values of these inventories and contracts are recognized in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. If management used different methods or factors to estimate market value, amounts reported as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. Additionally, if market conditions change subsequent to year end, amounts reported in future periods as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. The Company, from time to time, uses derivative contracts designated as cash flow hedges to fix the purchase price of anticipated volumes of commodities to be purchased and processed in a future month, to fix the purchase price of the Companys anticipated natural gas requirements for certain production facilities, and to fix the sales price of anticipated volumes of ethanol. The change in the market value of such derivative contracts has historically been, and is expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold and net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. If it is determined that the derivative instruments used are no longer effective at offsetting changes in the price of the hedged item, then the changes in the market value of these exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts would be recorded in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. See Note 4 in Item 8 for additional information. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Employee Benefit Plans The Company provides substantially all U.S. employees and employees at certain international subsidiaries with pension benefits. Eligible U.S. employees with five or more years of service prior to January 1, 2009 participate in a defined benefit pension plan. Eligible U.S. employees hired on or after January 1, 2009 (and eligible salaried employees with less than five years of service prior to January 1, 2009) participate in a cash balance pension formula. The Company provides eligible U.S. employees who retire under qualifying conditions with access to postretirement health care, at full cost to the retiree (certain employees are grandfathered into subsidized coverage). In order to measure the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans, management makes several estimates and assumptions, including interest rates used to discount certain liabilities, rates of return on assets set aside to fund these plans, rates of compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and anticipated future health care costs. These estimates and assumptions are based on the Companys historical experience combined with managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Management also uses third party actuaries to assist in measuring the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans. If management used different estimates and assumptions regarding these plans, the funded status of the plans could vary significantly, and the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. See Note 15 in Item 8 for additional information. Income Taxes The Company frequently faces challenges from U.S. and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company records reserves for estimates of potential additional tax owed by the Company. As an example, a subsidiary of the Company received tax assessments in the amount of $665 million consisting of tax, penalty, and interest (adjusted for interest and variation in currency exchange rates) from the Brazilian Federal Revenue Service challenging the deductibility of commodity hedging losses incurred by the Company for tax years 2004, 2006 and 2007. The Company evaluated its tax position regarding these hedging transactions and concluded, based in part upon advice from Brazilian legal counsel, that it was appropriate to recognize the tax benefits of these deductions (See Note 13 in Item 8 for additional information). Deferred tax assets represent items to be used as tax deductions or credits in future tax returns, and the related tax benefit has already been recognized in the Companys income statement. The realization of the Companys deferred tax assets is dependent upon future taxable income in specific tax jurisdictions, the timing and amount of which are uncertain. The Company evaluates all available positive and negative evidence including estimated future reversals of existing temporary differences, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies, and recent financial results. Valuation allowances related to these deferred tax assets have been established to the extent the realization of the tax benefit is not likely. To the extent the Company were to favorably resolve matters for which accruals have been established or be required to pay amounts in excess of the aforementioned reserves, the Companys effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be impacted. Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and the Companys share of the undistributed earnings of affiliated corporate joint venture companies accounted for on the equity method amounting to approximately $8.2 billion at June 30, 2011, are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned factors may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and cash flows of the Companys assets in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its factories. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment, technology, and companies related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. Assets are written down after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these assets, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Goodwill and other intangible assets The Company accounts for its goodwill and other intangible assets in accordance with ASC Topic 350, Intangibles Goodwill and Other. Under this standard, goodwill and intangible assets deemed to have indefinite lives are not amortized but are subject to annual impairment tests. The Company evaluates goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year or whenever there are indicators that the carrying value of the assets may not be fully recoverable. Definite lived intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its impairment tests, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Valuation of Marketable Securities and Investments in Affiliates The Company classifies the majority of its marketable securities as available for sale and carries these securities at fair value. The Company applies the equity method for investments over which the Company has the ability to exercise significant influence. These investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings and are adjusted, where appropriate, for amortizable basis differences between the investment balance and the underlying net assets of the investee. For publicly traded securities, the fair value of the Companys investments is readily available based on quoted market prices. For non publicly traded securities, managements assessment of fair value is based on valuation methodologies including discounted cash flows and estimates of sales proceeds. In the event of a decline in fair value of an investment below carrying value, management is required to determine if the decline in fair value is other than temporary. In evaluating the nature of a decline in the fair value of an investment, management considers the market conditions, trends of earnings, discounted cash flows, trading volumes, and other key measures of the investment as well as the Companys ability and intent to hold the investment. When such a decline in value is deemed to be other than temporary, an impairment loss is recognized in the current period operating results to the extent of the decline. See Notes 5 and 6 in Item 8 for information regarding the Companys marketable securities and investments in affiliates. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these marketable securities, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in: commodity market prices as they relate to the Companys net commodity position, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and prices of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to factors such as changes in weather conditions, disease, plantings, government programs and policies, competition, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. The Company enters into derivative and non derivative contracts with the primary objective of managing the Companys exposure to adverse price movements in the agricultural commodities used for, and produced in, our business operations. The Company will also use exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the volatility of the relationship between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contracts defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company, from time to time, enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold or net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. The Companys commodity position consists of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, related purchase and sales contracts, energy and freight contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts including contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements, net of sales. The fair value of the Companys commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing all of the commodity positions at quoted market prices for the period, where available, or utilizing a close proxy. The Company has established metrics to monitor the amount of market risk exposure, which consist of volumetric limits, and value at risk (VaR) limits. VaR measures the potential loss, at a 95% confidence level, that could be incurred over a one year period. Volumetric limits are monitored daily and VaR calculations and sensitivity analysis are monitored weekly. In addition to measuring the hypothetical loss resulting from an adverse two standard deviation move in market prices (assuming no correlations) over a one year period using VaR, sensitivity analysis is performed measuring the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in market prices. The highest, lowest, and average weekly position for each of the last two years together with the market risk from a hypothetical 10% adverse price change is as follows: 2011 2010 Long/(Short) Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest position $ 2,388 $ 239 $ 738 $ 74 Lowest position 368 37 (183 ) (18 ) Average position 1,644 164 216 22 The change in fair value of the average position for 2011 compared to 2010 was principally the result of changes in average quantities underlying the weekly commodity position. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) Currencies The Company conducts its business in over 75 countries. For the majority of the Companys subsidiaries located outside the United States, the local currency is the functional currency. To reduce the risks associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, the Company enters into currency exchange contracts to minimize its foreign currency position related to transactions denominated primarily in Euro, British pound, Canadian dollar, and Brazilian real currencies. These currencies represent the major functional or local currencies in which recurring business transactions occur. The Company does not use currency exchange contracts as hedges against amounts permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The currency exchange contracts used are forward contracts, swaps with banks, exchange traded futures contracts, and over the counter options. The changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $8.2 billion at June 30, 2011, and $6.4 billion at June 30, 2010. This increase is due to the appreciation of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar and an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The potential loss in fair value, which would principally be recognized in Other Comprehensive Income, resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $837 million and $639 million for 2011 and 2010, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 50 basis points decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2011 2010 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 9,108 $ 7,700 Excess of fair value over carrying value 842 870 Market risk 333 289 The increase in fair value of long term debt in 2011 resulted principally from the issuance of $1.5 billion of 18 month floating rate notes in February 2011. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) The Company conducts its business in over 75 countries. For the majority of the Companys subsidiaries located outside the United States, the local currency is the functional currency. Revenues and expenses denominated in foreign currencies are translated into U.S. dollars at the weighted average exchange rates for the applicable periods. For the majority of the Companys business activities in Brazil, the functional currency is the U.S. dollar, however certain transactions, including taxes, occur in local currency and require conversion to the functional currency. Fluctuations in the exchange rates of foreign currencies, primarily the Euro, British pound, Canadian dollar, and Brazilian real, as compared to the U.S. dollar can result in corresponding fluctuations in the U.S. dollar value of revenues and expenses reported by the Company. The Company measures the performance of its business segments using key financial metrics such as segment operating profit, return on invested capital, and cost per metric ton. The Companys operating results can vary significantly due to changes in factors such as fluctuations in energy prices, weather conditions, crop plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth, general global economic conditions, changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. Due to these unpredictable factors, the Company does not provide forward looking information in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 2011 Compared to 2010 As an agricultural commodity based business, the Company is subject to a variety of market factors which affect the Companys operating results. In 2011, prices for certain agricultural commodities were higher in response to growing global demand and tighter crop supplies. The projections of lower 2011 carryover stocks for certain key commodities, coupled with regional crop supply dislocations for certain commodities, also led to high commodity price volatility. Global demand for agricultural commodities grew in 2011, resulting in increased sales volumes for most of the Companys products. The large 2010 North American harvest resulted in global merchandising, handling, and processing opportunities. Protein meal markets for commercial livestock producers in the U.S., particularly poultry producers, faced challenging conditions. Biodiesel markets in Europe and South America, together with the 2011 extension of the U.S. biodiesel blenders credit, helped support global demand for refined and crude vegetable oils. Sweeteners and starches demand remained strong in 2011 due primarily to U.S. exports of sweeteners and improved demand for industrial starches. Ethanol sales volumes, including increased volumes as the Companys new dry mills ramped up, were supported by favorable gasoline blending economics in the U.S. and good export demand. Net earnings increased $106 million to $2.0 billion due principally to a $782 million increase in segment operating profit partially offset by a negative impact from changing LIFO inventory valuations and higher income taxes. In 2011, the Company successfully managed through significant increases in market prices for most of its agricultural commodity raw materials, resulting in increased segment operating profit. Earnings before income taxes includes charges of $368 million from the effect of increasing agricultural commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuation reserves, compared to credits of $42 million in the prior year caused by decreasing agricultural commodity prices. Income taxes increased $331 million due to a higher effective income tax rate and higher earnings before income taxes. The effective income tax rate of 33.1% for 2011 was the result of changes in the geographic mix of earnings and unfavorable specific tax items. The fully diluted earnings per share calculation for 2011 was impacted by the completion of the Companys debt remarketing related to the $1.75 billion Equity Units. While the approximately 44 million new common shares related to the $1.75 billion Equity Units were not issued until June 1, 2011, the if converted method of accounting for diluted earnings per share required diluted EPS to be calculated as if the Company issued the shares on January 1, 2011, and this assumption resulted in a dilutive impact of $0.04 on earnings per share (See Note 9 in the accompanying consolidated financial statements). Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Analysis of Statements of Earnings Prior year net sales and other operating income by segment has been reclassified to conform to the current years presentation resulting in reclassified net sales and other operating income at the segment level with no impact to total net sales and other operating income or operating profit. Net sales and other operating income by segment are as follows: 2011 2010 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing and Origination $ 16,924 $ 14,487 $ 2,437 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel and Other 9,476 7,133 2,343 Asia 262 190 72 Total Oilseeds Processing 26,662 21,810 4,852 Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 3,766 3,264 502 Bioproducts 6,142 4,610 1,532 Total Corn Processing 9,908 7,874 2,034 Agricultural Services Merchandising and Handling 37,705 26,589 11,116 Transportation 222 167 55 Total Agricultural Services 37,927 26,756 11,171 Other Processing 6,069 5,147 922 Financial 110 95 15 Total Other 6,179 5,242 937 Total $ 80,676 $ 61,682 $ 18,994 Net sales and other operating income increased $19.0 billion, or 31%, to $80.7 billion. Net sales and other operating income increased $14.2 billion due to higher average selling prices, primarily related to higher underlying commodity costs, and increased $4.8 billion due to increased sales volumes, including sales volumes from acquisitions. Agricultural Services sales increased 42% to $37.9 billion due to higher average selling prices of agricultural commodities and higher global sales volumes. Oilseeds Processing sales increased 22% to $26.7 billion primarily due to higher average selling prices for vegetable oils, soybeans, biodiesel, and protein meal. Corn Processing sales increased 26% to $9.9 billion due to higher average selling prices and increased sales volumes of ethanol and other corn products, in part due to the Companys two new ethanol dry mills coming on line. Other sales increased 18% to $6.2 billion primarily due to higher average selling prices of cocoa and cocoa products and wheat flour; and increased sales volumes of cocoa and cocoa products. ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Cost of products sold increased 32% to $76.4 billion due to higher costs of agricultural commodities, negative impacts resulting from changes in LIFO inventory valuations, and higher manufacturing costs. Cost of products sold includes charges of $368 million from the effect of increasing agricultural commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuation reserves, compared to credits of $42 million in the prior year caused by decreasing agricultural commodity prices. Manufacturing expenses increased $410 million due primarily to higher processed volumes, including the volumes of the Companys new greenfield operations coming on line, and higher average unit costs for certain chemicals and fuels used in the Companys processing and transportation operations. During the second quarter of fiscal 2011, the Company updated its estimates for service lives of certain of its machinery and equipment assets. This change in estimate resulted in a $133 million decrease in depreciation expense compared to the amount of depreciation expense the Company would have recorded using the previously estimated service lives. Manufacturing expenses included $94 million in fiscal 2011 related to the start up of new plants compared to $110 million in the prior year. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased 15% to $1.6 billion. This increase was due to higher employee related costs and higher administrative expenses. Higher employee related costs principally reflect the increase in number of employees during the year and included higher salaries and wages, higher accruals for performance based compensation and higher benefit expenses. Equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates declined 3% to $542 million. The decline in earnings from the Companys equity investee, Wilmar, were partially offset by higher earnings of the Companys equity investee, Gruma, in part due to a gain on disposition of assets. Interest income increased 8% to $136 million principally resulting from higher interest earned on advances to affiliates. Interest expense increased 14% to $482 million. Interest costs capitalized as a component of major construction projects in progress was $7 million compared to $75 million in the prior year. Interest incurred on long term debt declined $24 million as a result of debt retirements while interest incurred on short term debt increased $15 million due to higher average borrowings driven by higher working capital requirements. Other (income) expense net increased $255 million primarily due to the $71 million gain resulting from the revaluation of the Companys previously held equity interest in Golden Peanut upon acquisition of the remaining 50% interest, gains on interest rate swaps of $30 million compared to a loss of $59 million in the prior year, and a decrease in charges related to early extinguishment of debt from $75 million in the prior year to $15 million in the current year. Income taxes increased $331 million to $997 million due to a higher effective income tax rate and higher pretax earnings. The Companys effective income tax rate increased to 33.1% during 2011 compared to 25.8% in fiscal 2010. The increase in the current year rate is primarily due to a geographic mix of earnings that shifted more to the U.S., a higher U.S. effective income tax rate, income tax expense associated with foreign currency re measurement of non monetary assets in Brazil, and adjustments to deferred income tax balances. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Operating profit by segment is as follows: 2011 2010 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing and Origination $ 1,013 $ 818 $ 195 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel and Other 329 291 38 Asia 182 291 (109 ) Total Oilseeds Processing 1,524 1,400 124 Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 320 529 (209 ) Bioproducts 742 193 549 Total Corn Processing 1,062 722 340 Agricultural Services Merchandising and Handling 818 583 235 Transportation 104 85 19 Total Agricultural Services 922 668 254 Other Processing 474 403 71 Financial 39 46 (7 ) Total Other 513 449 64 Total Segment Operating Profit 4,021 3,239 782 Corporate (see below) (1,006 ) (654 ) (352 ) Earnings Before Income Taxes $ 3,015 $ 2,585 $ 430 Corporate results are as follows: 2011 2010 Change (In millions) LIFO credit (charge) $ (368 ) $ 42 $ (410 ) Unallocated interest expense net (335 ) (283 ) (52 ) Unallocated corporate costs (326 ) (266 ) (60 ) Charges on early extinguishment of debt (8 ) (75 ) 67 Gains (losses) on interest rate swaps 30 (59 ) 89 Other 1 (13 ) 14 Total Corporate $ (1,006 ) $ (654 ) $ (352 ) Oilseeds Processing operating profit increased 9% to $1.5 billion. Crushing and origination results increased $195 million to $1.0 billion, which include the $71 million gain on the revaluation of the Companys equity interest in Golden Peanut as a result of the acquisition of the remaining 50% interest. Improved North American crushing results, particularly for cotton seed and canola, were partially offset by lower crushing margins in South America and Europe. Margins globally were enhanced by good positioning and by improved origination results. In South America, fertilizer results improved due to higher margins and volumes. Refining, packaging, biodiesel and other results increased $38 million to $329 million due principally to higher packaged oils margins and improved North American and European biodiesel results. Asia results decreased $109 million due principally to decreased earnings from the Companys equity investee, Wilmar. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Corn Processing operating profit increased 47% to $1.1 billion, which includes favorable impacts from ownership positions, which were allocated to sweeteners and starches and bioproducts based on total grind. Sweeteners and starches operating profit decreased $209 million to $320 million due to higher net corn costs partially offset by higher sales volumes. Sales volumes increased due to U.S. export shipments of sweeteners and improved U.S. demand for industrial starches. Bioproducts operating profit improved $549 million primarily due to higher ethanol sales volumes and higher average selling prices leading to increased ethanol and lysine margins. Bioproducts margins were also enhanced by favorable corn ownership positions. Bioproducts results included startup costs related to the Companys new plants of $94 million in the current year compared to $107 million in the prior year. Agricultural Services operating profit increased 38% to $922 million. Merchandising and handling results increased due to higher corn and wheat sales volumes and higher margins. A large 2010 U.S. harvest combined with strong international demand resulted in higher U.S. export shipments. Merchandising and handling results this year include an insurance recovery of $67 million related to property damage and business interruption resulting from an October 2008 explosion at the Companys Destrehan, Louisiana export facility. International merchandising results were weaker in part due to positions impacted by unexpected shifts in crop supply caused by weather conditions and government actions in the Black Sea region. Transportation results increased $19 million to $104 million primarily due to higher barge freight rates and higher barge utilization levels, in part due to higher U.S. export volumes. Other operating profit increased 14% to $513 million. Other processing operating results improved in the Companys wheat milling and cocoa business units due principally to increased equity earnings from the Companys equity investee, Gruma, which include a $78 million gain related to the disposal of Gruma assets. Other financial operating profit decreased $7 million primarily due to higher captive insurance loss provisions principally related to a $67 million loss related to the Companys Destrehan, Louisiana export facility insurance claim. Corporate results decreased $352 million primarily due to the negative impact from changing LIFO inventory valuations and higher unallocated interest expense net. The effects of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory reserves resulted in charges of $368 million compared to credits of $42 million for the prior year. Corporate unallocated interest expense increased $52 million mostly due to lower capitalization of interest costs for construction projects in progress. Partially offsetting the higher LIFO and unallocated interest costs were $30 million of gains on interest rate swaps compared to prior year losses on interest rate swaps of $59 million. In addition, the prior year included charges of $75 million on early debt extinguishment compared to $8 million of similar charges in the current year. 2010 Compared to 2009 As an agricultural commodity based business, the Company is subject to a variety of market factors which affect the Companys operating results. Market expectations throughout most of fiscal 2010 for fewer global crop supply and demand imbalances, coupled with continuing uncertainty about short term demand, led to generally lower and less volatile agricultural commodity market prices and conditions. In addition, the late, extended U.S. harvest reduced profit opportunities. North American oilseed exports and U.S. crushing volumes were enhanced in 2010 by the poor supply of 2009 crop year soybeans in South America. Increased government mandates for the use of biodiesel in South America and Europe resulted in increased biodiesel demand and helped keep overall demand for refined and crude vegetable oil steady in these regions. However, in North America, demand for vegetable oils remained weak in 2010 due to low consumption of oils in the food service and biodiesel industries, in part due to the expiration of the biodiesel blending credit in the U.S. on January 1, 2010. Soybean protein meal demand improved, particularly in Asia. Market prices for corn decreased in 2010 resulting in lower raw material costs for corn processing and decreased average selling prices for sweeteners and starches. Lower energy, fuel and chemical costs per unit positively impacted the Companys manufacturing costs. More favorable ethanol blending economics together with increased ethanol merchandising activity resulted in increased demand, higher ethanol sales volumes, and improved margins. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Earnings before income taxes for 2010 include a credit of $42 million from the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations, compared to a credit of $517 million in 2009. Income taxes decreased $146 million due to a lower effective income tax rate, partially offset by higher pretax earnings. Income taxes for 2009 included a $158 million charge resulting from the restructuring of a holding company in which the Company holds a portion of its equity investment in Wilmar. Analysis of Statements of Earnings Net sales and other operating income by segment for 2010 and 2009 have been reclassified to conform to the current years presentation resulting in reclassified net sales and other operating income at the segment level with no impact to total net sales and other operating income or operating profit. Net sales and other operating income by segment are as follows: 2010 2009 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing and Origination $ 14,487 $ 15,013 $ (526 ) Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel and Other 7,133 8,756 (1,623 ) Asia 190 179 11 Total Oilseeds Processing 21,810 23,948 (2,138 ) Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 3,264 3,690 (426 ) Bioproducts 4,610 3,938 672 Total Corn Processing 7,874 7,628 246 Agricultural Services Merchandising and Handling 26,589 32,007 (5,418 ) Transportation 167 242 (75 ) Total Agricultural Services 26,756 32,249 (5,493 ) Other Processing 5,147 5,272 (125 ) Financial 95 110 (15 ) Total Other 5,242 5,382 (140 ) Total $ 61,682 $ 69,207 $ (7,525 ) Net sales and other operating income decreased 11% to $61.7 billion due principally to lower average selling prices in 2010 in line with year over year declines in underlying commodity costs. Oilseeds Processing sales decreased 9% to $21.8 billion, due principally to lower average selling prices for soybeans, protein meal, refined oil, and biodiesel partially offset by increased sales volumes of soybeans and fertilizer. Corn Processing sales increased 3% to $7.9 billion primarily as a result of increased sales volumes of ethanol and lysine partially offset by lower average selling prices of ethanol, sweeteners, and starches. Agricultural Services sales decreased 17% to $26.8 billion, due to lower average selling prices, in line with year over year declines in underlying commodity prices and lower sales volumes. Other sales decreased 3% to $5.2 billion, primarily due to lower average selling prices of wheat flour partially offset by increased wheat flour sales volumes and higher average selling prices and sales volumes for cocoa products. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Cost of products sold decreased 11% to $57.8 billion, due principally to decreased agricultural commodity costs including the impact of changes in LIFO inventory valuations which reduced cost of products sold by $42 million in 2010 compared to $517 million in 2009. Manufacturing expenses decreased 1% or $60 million, primarily due to lower energy, chemical and fuel costs partially offset by higher employee related costs and a $124 million increase in depreciation and amortization expense. In 2010, manufacturing expenses included additional costs associated with the Companys new greenfield plants. Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased 1% to $1.4 billion, due principally to decreased provisions for doubtful accounts partially offset by increased expenses for legal, professional, and commercial services. Equity earnings of unconsolidated affiliates increased $416 million to $561 million primarily due to the absence of a non cash charge of $275 million in 2009 related to currency derivative losses of the Companys equity investee, Gruma S.A.B. de C.V. Interest income declined $55 million to $126 million primarily due to lower average interest rates. Interest expense declined $47 million to $422 million primarily due to lower average interest rates. Other expense net increased $91 million due to pre tax charges of $75 million related to the early extinguishment of debt and $59 million for unrealized losses on interest rate swaps (for more information on the charges related to the early extinguishment of debt, see Note 8 in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data). Income taxes decreased $146 million due to a lower effective income tax rate partially offset by higher pretax earnings. The Companys effective income tax rate during 2010 was 25.8%. In 2009, the effective income tax rate was 32.5% which included $158 million of income tax charges related to the partial restructuring of the holding company structure through which the Company holds a portion of its equity investment in Wilmar. Excluding these Wilmar charges, the Companys effective income tax rate for 2009 was 26.2%. For more information concerning Wilmar tax matters see Note 13 in Item 8. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Operating profit by segment is as follows: 2010 2009 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing and Origination $ 818 $ 767 $ 51 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel and Other 291 265 26 Asia 291 248 43 Total Oilseeds Processing 1,400 1,280 120 Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 529 500 29 Bioproducts 193 (315 ) 508 Total Corn Processing 722 185 537 Agricultural Services Merchandising and Handling 583 832 (249 ) Transportation 85 162 (77 ) Total Agricultural Services 668 994 (326 ) Other Processing 403 51 352 Financial 46 (57 ) 103 Total Other 449 (6 ) 455 Total Segment Operating Profit 3,239 2,453 786 Corporate (see below) (654 ) 47 (701 ) Earnings Before Income Taxes $ 2,585 $ 2,500 $ 85 Corporate results are as follows: 2010 2009 Change (In millions) LIFO credit $ 42 $ 517 $ (475 ) Unallocated interest expense net (283 ) (192 ) (91 ) Unallocated corporate costs (266 ) (252 ) (14 ) Charges on early extinguishment of debt (75 ) (75 ) Unrealized losses on interest rate swaps (59 ) (59 ) Other (13 ) (26 ) 13 Total Corporate $ (654 ) $ 47 $ (701 ) Oilseeds Processing operating profit increased 9% to $1.4 billion. Crushing and origination results increased $51 million due to higher North American soybean crushing margins and favorable soft seed commodity positioning, partially offset by lower soybean crushing margins in Europe and South America. Refining, packaging, biodiesel and other operating profit increased $26 million due primarily to higher South American biodiesel results and improved margins in Europe. Oilseeds processing results in Asia increased $43 million to $291 million due principally to improved equity earnings of Wilmar. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Corn Processing operating profit increased $537 million to $722 million. Bioproducts operating profit increased $508 million due to improved ethanol and lysine sales volumes and improved ethanol margins resulting from lower net corn costs and decreased manufacturing costs. Ethanol sales volumes increased due to favorable gasoline blending economics and increased merchandising activity. Sweeteners and starches operating profit increased $29 million due to lower net corn and manufacturing costs due principally to lower energy and chemical prices. These lower manufacturing costs were partially offset by lower average selling prices. Agricultural Services operating profit decreased $326 million to $668 million. Merchandising and handling results decreased $249 million. Enhanced volume and margin opportunities created by 2009s volatile commodity markets and tight credit markets did not recur. Volumes and margins in 2010 benefited from strong demand for U.S. soybean exports following the short South American 2009 crop. Transportation results decreased $77 million due to lower barge freight rates and decreased barge utilization levels resulting from weaker U.S. economic conditions and the late, extended North American harvest. Other operating profit increased $455 million to $449 million. Other processing operating profit increased $352 million due to improved equity earnings from the Companys investment in Gruma, improved wheat milling margins, and improved cocoa processing results. Financial operating profit increased $103 million due primarily to the absence of losses experienced in 2009 from managed fund investments and captive insurance operations. Corporate results decreased $701 million. The effects of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations resulted in a credit of $42 million for the year ended June 30, 2010, compared to a credit of $517 million for the year ended June 30, 2009. Unallocated interest expense net increased $91 million reflecting a reduction in corporate interest income caused by lower short term interest rates and lower working capital requirements of the operating segments. In March 2010, the Company repurchased $500 million of long term debt which generated a $75 million pretax charge on early extinguishment of debt. In connection with a debt remarketing planned for 2011, the Company entered into interest rate swaps to fix the interest rate on a portion of the planned remarketing which resulted in $59 million of unrealized losses on interest rate swaps. Liquidity and Capital Resources A Company objective is to have sufficient liquidity, balance sheet strength, and financial flexibility to fund the operating and capital requirements of a capital intensive agricultural commodity based business. The primary source of funds to finance the Companys operations and capital expenditures is cash generated by operations. In addition, the Company maintains a commercial paper borrowing facility and has access to equity and debt capital from public and private sources in both U.S. and international markets. At June 30, 2011, the Company had $1.4 billion of cash, cash equivalents, and short term marketable securities and a current ratio, defined as current assets divided by current liabilities, of 2.1 to 1. Included in working capital is $7.1 billion of readily marketable commodity inventories. Cash used in operating activities was $2.3 billion for the year compared to cash provided by operating activities of $2.7 billion last year. Working capital increased in the current year due principally to higher agricultural commodity market prices. Cash used in investing activities of $1.7 billion, principally for capital expenditures, businesses acquired, and investments, was in line with last year. Cash provided by financing activities was $3.6 billion for the year compared to cash used in financing activities of $1.0 billion last year. Net borrowings increased primarily to fund higher working capital. Short term borrowings increased due principally to higher commercial paper borrowings, and long term borrowings increased primarily as a result of the issuance of $1.5 billion of 18 month floating rate notes in February 2011. In addition, the Company issued common stock and received $1.75 billion under the forward stock purchase component of the Companys Equity Units (see Note 8 in Item 8). At June 30, 2011, the Companys capital resources included net worth of $18.8 billion and lines of credit totaling $6.9 billion, of which $5.7 billion was unused. The Companys ratio of long term debt to total capital (the sum of the Companys long term debt and shareholders equity) was 30% at June 30, 2011 and 32% at June 30, 2010. This ratio is a measure of the Companys long term indebtedness and is an indicator of financial flexibility. Of the Companys total lines of credit, $4.6 billion support a commercial paper borrowing facility, against which there were $620 million of commercial paper outstanding at June 30, 2011. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) The Company has outstanding $1.15 billion principal amount of convertible senior notes. As of June 30, 2011, none of the conditions permitting conversion of these notes had been satisfied. The Company has purchased call options and warrants intended to reduce the potential shareholder dilution upon future conversion of the notes. As of June 30, 2011, the market price of the Companys common stock was not greater than the exercise price of the purchased call options or warrants related to the convertible senior notes. On July 1, 2011, the Company entered into a 364 day accounts receivable securitization facility. The facility provides the Company with up to $1.0 billion in liquidity. Under the facility, the Companys U.S. originated trade accounts receivable are sold to a wholly owned bankruptcy remote entity which then sells an undivided interest in the receivable as a collateral for any borrowings under the facility. Any borrowings under the facility will be recorded as secured borrowings. As of August 24, 2011, the Company had not used the facility. This facility expands the Companys access to liquidity through efficient use of its balance sheet assets. The Companys credit facilities and certain debentures require the Company to comply with specified financial and non financial covenants including maintenance of minimum tangible net worth as well as limitations related to incurring liens, secured debt, and certain other financing arrangements. The Company is in compliance with these covenants as of June 30, 2011. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements In the normal course of business, the Company enters into contracts and commitments which obligate the Company to make payments in the future. The following table sets forth the Companys significant future obligations by time period. Purchases include commodity based contracts entered into in the normal course of business, which are further described in Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, energy related purchase contracts entered into in the normal course of business, and other purchase obligations related to the Companys normal business activities. The following table does not include unrecognized income tax benefits of $79 million as of June 30, 2011 as the Company is unable to reasonably estimate the timing of settlement. Where applicable, information included in the Companys consolidated financial statements and notes is cross referenced in this table. Payments Due by Period Contractual Item 8 Note Less than 1 3 3 5 More than Obligations Reference Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years (In millions) Purchases Inventories $ 17,457 $ 16,593 $ 807 $ 43 $ 14 Energy 456 340 76 22 18 Other 398 168 186 35 9 Total purchases 18,311 17,101 1,069 100 41 Short term debt 1,875 1,875 Long term debt Note 8 8,444 178 2,875 46 5,345 Estimated interest payments 7,177 384 690 646 5,457 Operating leases Note 14 1,163 233 334 225 371 Estimated pension and other postretirement plan contributions (1) Note 15 167 55 19 21 72 Total $ 37,137 $ 19,826 $ 4,987 $ 1,038 $ 11,286 (1) Includes pension contributions of $47 million for fiscal 2012. The Company is unable to estimate the amount of pension contributions beyond fiscal year 2012. For more information concerning the Companys pension and other postretirement plans, see Note 15 in Item 8. At June 30, 2011, the Company estimates it will spend approximately $2.8 billion through calendar year 2014 to complete currently approved capital projects which are not included in the table above. The Company also has outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds of $620 million at June 30, 2011. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) In addition, the Company has entered into agreements, primarily debt guarantee agreements related to equity method investees, which could obligate the Company to make future payments. The Companys liability under these agreements arises only if the primary entity fails to perform its contractual obligation. The Company has collateral for a portion of these contingent obligations. At June 30, 2011, these contingent obligations totaled approximately $121 million. Amounts outstanding for the primary entity under these contingent obligations were $69 million at June 30, 2011. Critical Accounting Policies The process of preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the carrying values of the Companys assets and liabilities as well as the recognition of revenues and expenses. These estimates and judgments are based on the Companys historical experience and managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Certain of the Companys accounting policies are considered critical, as these policies are important to the depiction of the Companys financial statements and require significant or complex judgment by management. Management has discussed with the Companys Audit Committee the development, selection, disclosure, and application of these critical accounting policies. Following are the accounting policies management considers critical to the Companys financial statements. Inventories and Derivatives Certain of the Companys merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, forward fixed price purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts are valued at estimated market values. These merchandisable agricultural commodities are freely traded, have quoted market prices, and may be sold without significant additional processing. Management estimates market value based on exchange quoted prices, adjusted for differences in local markets. Changes in the market values of these inventories and contracts are recognized in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. If management used different methods or factors to estimate market value, amounts reported as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. Additionally, if market conditions change subsequent to year end, amounts reported in future periods as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. The Company, from time to time, uses derivative contracts designated as cash flow hedges to fix the purchase price of anticipated volumes of commodities to be purchased and processed in a future month, to fix the purchase price of the Companys anticipated natural gas requirements for certain production facilities, and to fix the sales price of anticipated volumes of ethanol. The change in the market value of such derivative contracts has historically been, and is expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold and net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. If it is determined that the derivative instruments used are no longer effective at offsetting changes in the price of the hedged item, then the changes in the market value of these exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts would be recorded in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. See Note 4 in Item 8 for additional information. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Employee Benefit Plans The Company provides substantially all U.S. employees and employees at certain international subsidiaries with pension benefits. Eligible U.S. employees with five or more years of service prior to January 1, 2009 participate in a defined benefit pension plan. Eligible U.S. employees hired on or after January 1, 2009 (and eligible salaried employees with less than five years of service prior to January 1, 2009) participate in a cash balance pension formula. The Company provides eligible U.S. employees who retire under qualifying conditions with access to postretirement health care, at full cost to the retiree (certain employees are grandfathered into subsidized coverage). In order to measure the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans, management makes several estimates and assumptions, including interest rates used to discount certain liabilities, rates of return on assets set aside to fund these plans, rates of compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and anticipated future health care costs. These estimates and assumptions are based on the Companys historical experience combined with managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Management also uses third party actuaries to assist in measuring the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans. If management used different estimates and assumptions regarding these plans, the funded status of the plans could vary significantly, and the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. See Note 15 in Item 8 for additional information. Income Taxes The Company frequently faces challenges from U.S. and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company records reserves for estimates of potential additional tax owed by the Company. As an example, a subsidiary of the Company received tax assessments in the amount of $665 million consisting of tax, penalty, and interest (adjusted for interest and variation in currency exchange rates) from the Brazilian Federal Revenue Service challenging the deductibility of commodity hedging losses incurred by the Company for tax years 2004, 2006 and 2007. The Company evaluated its tax position regarding these hedging transactions and concluded, based in part upon advice from Brazilian legal counsel, that it was appropriate to recognize the tax benefits of these deductions (See Note 13 in Item 8 for additional information). Deferred tax assets represent items to be used as tax deductions or credits in future tax returns, and the related tax benefit has already been recognized in the Companys income statement. The realization of the Companys deferred tax assets is dependent upon future taxable income in specific tax jurisdictions, the timing and amount of which are uncertain. The Company evaluates all available positive and negative evidence including estimated future reversals of existing temporary differences, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies, and recent financial results. Valuation allowances related to these deferred tax assets have been established to the extent the realization of the tax benefit is not likely. To the extent the Company were to favorably resolve matters for which accruals have been established or be required to pay amounts in excess of the aforementioned reserves, the Companys effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be impacted. Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and the Companys share of the undistributed earnings of affiliated corporate joint venture companies accounted for on the equity method amounting to approximately $8.2 billion at June 30, 2011, are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned factors may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and cash flows of the Companys assets in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its factories. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment, technology, and companies related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. Assets are written down after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these assets, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Goodwill and other intangible assets The Company accounts for its goodwill and other intangible assets in accordance with ASC Topic 350, Intangibles Goodwill and Other. Under this standard, goodwill and intangible assets deemed to have indefinite lives are not amortized but are subject to annual impairment tests. The Company evaluates goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year or whenever there are indicators that the carrying value of the assets may not be fully recoverable. Definite lived intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its impairment tests, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Valuation of Marketable Securities and Investments in Affiliates The Company classifies the majority of its marketable securities as available for sale and carries these securities at fair value. The Company applies the equity method for investments over which the Company has the ability to exercise significant influence. These investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings and are adjusted, where appropriate, for amortizable basis differences between the investment balance and the underlying net assets of the investee. For publicly traded securities, the fair value of the Companys investments is readily available based on quoted market prices. For non publicly traded securities, managements assessment of fair value is based on valuation methodologies including discounted cash flows and estimates of sales proceeds. In the event of a decline in fair value of an investment below carrying value, management is required to determine if the decline in fair value is other than temporary. In evaluating the nature of a decline in the fair value of an investment, management considers the market conditions, trends of earnings, discounted cash flows, trading volumes, and other key measures of the investment as well as the Companys ability and intent to hold the investment. When such a decline in value is deemed to be other than temporary, an impairment loss is recognized in the current period operating results to the extent of the decline. See Notes 5 and 6 in Item 8 for information regarding the Companys marketable securities and investments in affiliates. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these marketable securities, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in: commodity market prices as they relate to the Companys net commodity position, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and prices of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to factors such as changes in weather conditions, disease, plantings, government programs and policies, competition, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. The Company enters into derivative and non derivative contracts with the primary objective of managing the Companys exposure to adverse price movements in the agricultural commodities used for, and produced in, our business operations. The Company will also use exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the volatility of the relationship between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contracts defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company, from time to time, enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold or net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. The Companys commodity position consists of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, related purchase and sales contracts, energy and freight contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts including contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements, net of sales. The fair value of the Companys commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing all of the commodity positions at quoted market prices for the period, where available, or utilizing a close proxy. The Company has established metrics to monitor the amount of market risk exposure, which consist of volumetric limits, and value at risk (VaR) limits. VaR measures the potential loss, at a 95% confidence level, that could be incurred over a one year period. Volumetric limits are monitored daily and VaR calculations and sensitivity analysis are monitored weekly. In addition to measuring the hypothetical loss resulting from an adverse two standard deviation move in market prices (assuming no correlations) over a one year period using VaR, sensitivity analysis is performed measuring the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in market prices. The highest, lowest, and average weekly position for each of the last two years together with the market risk from a hypothetical 10% adverse price change is as follows: 2011 2010 Long/(Short) Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest position $ 2,388 $ 239 $ 738 $ 74 Lowest position 368 37 (183 ) (18 ) Average position 1,644 164 216 22 The change in fair value of the average position for 2011 compared to 2010 was principally the result of changes in average quantities underlying the weekly commodity position. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) Currencies The Company conducts its business in over 75 countries. For the majority of the Companys subsidiaries located outside the United States, the local currency is the functional currency. To reduce the risks associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, the Company enters into currency exchange contracts to minimize its foreign currency position related to transactions denominated primarily in Euro, British pound, Canadian dollar, and Brazilian real currencies. These currencies represent the major functional or local currencies in which recurring business transactions occur. The Company does not use currency exchange contracts as hedges against amounts permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The currency exchange contracts used are forward contracts, swaps with banks, exchange traded futures contracts, and over the counter options. The changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $8.2 billion at June 30, 2011, and $6.4 billion at June 30, 2010. This increase is due to the appreciation of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar and an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The potential loss in fair value, which would principally be recognized in Other Comprehensive Income, resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $837 million and $639 million for 2011 and 2010, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 50 basis points decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2011 2010 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 9,108 $ 7,700 Excess of fair value over carrying value 842 870 Market risk 333 289 The increase in fair value of long term debt in 2011 resulted principally from the issuance of $1.5 billion of 18 month floating rate notes in February 2011. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Analysis of Statements of Earnings Prior year net sales and other operating income by segment has been reclassified to conform to the current years presentation resulting in reclassified net sales and other operating income at the segment level with no impact to total net sales and other operating income or operating profit. Net sales and other operating income by segment are as follows: 2011 2010 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing and Origination $ 16,924 $ 14,487 $ 2,437 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel and Other 9,476 7,133 2,343 Asia 262 190 72 Total Oilseeds Processing 26,662 21,810 4,852 Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 3,766 3,264 502 Bioproducts 6,142 4,610 1,532 Total Corn Processing 9,908 7,874 2,034 Agricultural Services Merchandising and Handling 37,705 26,589 11,116 Transportation 222 167 55 Total Agricultural Services 37,927 26,756 11,171 Other Processing 6,069 5,147 922 Financial 110 95 15 Total Other 6,179 5,242 937 Total $ 80,676 $ 61,682 $ 18,994 Net sales and other operating income increased $19.0 billion, or 31%, to $80.7 billion. Net sales and other operating income increased $14.2 billion due to higher average selling prices, primarily related to higher underlying commodity costs, and increased $4.8 billion due to increased sales volumes, including sales volumes from acquisitions. Agricultural Services sales increased 42% to $37.9 billion due to higher average selling prices of agricultural commodities and higher global sales volumes. Oilseeds Processing sales increased 22% to $26.7 billion primarily due to higher average selling prices for vegetable oils, soybeans, biodiesel, and protein meal. Corn Processing sales increased 26% to $9.9 billion due to higher average selling prices and increased sales volumes of ethanol and other corn products, in part due to the Companys two new ethanol dry mills coming on line. Other sales increased 18% to $6.2 billion primarily due to higher average selling prices of cocoa and cocoa products and wheat flour; and increased sales volumes of cocoa and cocoa products. ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Cost of products sold increased 32% to $76.4 billion due to higher costs of agricultural commodities, negative impacts resulting from changes in LIFO inventory valuations, and higher manufacturing costs. Cost of products sold includes charges of $368 million from the effect of increasing agricultural commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuation reserves, compared to credits of $42 million in the prior year caused by decreasing agricultural commodity prices. Manufacturing expenses increased $410 million due primarily to higher processed volumes, including the volumes of the Companys new greenfield operations coming on line, and higher average unit costs for certain chemicals and fuels used in the Companys processing and transportation operations. During the second quarter of fiscal 2011, the Company updated its estimates for service lives of certain of its machinery and equipment assets. This change in estimate resulted in a $133 million decrease in depreciation expense compared to the amount of depreciation expense the Company would have recorded using the previously estimated service lives. Manufacturing expenses included $94 million in fiscal 2011 related to the start up of new plants compared to $110 million in the prior year. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased 15% to $1.6 billion. This increase was due to higher employee related costs and higher administrative expenses. Higher employee related costs principally reflect the increase in number of employees during the year and included higher salaries and wages, higher accruals for performance based compensation and higher benefit expenses. Equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates declined 3% to $542 million. The decline in earnings from the Companys equity investee, Wilmar, were partially offset by higher earnings of the Companys equity investee, Gruma, in part due to a gain on disposition of assets. Interest income increased 8% to $136 million principally resulting from higher interest earned on advances to affiliates. Interest expense increased 14% to $482 million. Interest costs capitalized as a component of major construction projects in progress was $7 million compared to $75 million in the prior year. Interest incurred on long term debt declined $24 million as a result of debt retirements while interest incurred on short term debt increased $15 million due to higher average borrowings driven by higher working capital requirements. Other (income) expense net increased $255 million primarily due to the $71 million gain resulting from the revaluation of the Companys previously held equity interest in Golden Peanut upon acquisition of the remaining 50% interest, gains on interest rate swaps of $30 million compared to a loss of $59 million in the prior year, and a decrease in charges related to early extinguishment of debt from $75 million in the prior year to $15 million in the current year. Income taxes increased $331 million to $997 million due to a higher effective income tax rate and higher pretax earnings. The Companys effective income tax rate increased to 33.1% during 2011 compared to 25.8% in fiscal 2010. The increase in the current year rate is primarily due to a geographic mix of earnings that shifted more to the U.S., a higher U.S. effective income tax rate, income tax expense associated with foreign currency re measurement of non monetary assets in Brazil, and adjustments to deferred income tax balances. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Operating profit by segment is as follows: 2011 2010 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing and Origination $ 1,013 $ 818 $ 195 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel and Other 329 291 38 Asia 182 291 (109 ) Total Oilseeds Processing 1,524 1,400 124 Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 320 529 (209 ) Bioproducts 742 193 549 Total Corn Processing 1,062 722 340 Agricultural Services Merchandising and Handling 818 583 235 Transportation 104 85 19 Total Agricultural Services 922 668 254 Other Processing 474 403 71 Financial 39 46 (7 ) Total Other 513 449 64 Total Segment Operating Profit 4,021 3,239 782 Corporate (see below) (1,006 ) (654 ) (352 ) Earnings Before Income Taxes $ 3,015 $ 2,585 $ 430 Corporate results are as follows: 2011 2010 Change (In millions) LIFO credit (charge) $ (368 ) $ 42 $ (410 ) Unallocated interest expense net (335 ) (283 ) (52 ) Unallocated corporate costs (326 ) (266 ) (60 ) Charges on early extinguishment of debt (8 ) (75 ) 67 Gains (losses) on interest rate swaps 30 (59 ) 89 Other 1 (13 ) 14 Total Corporate $ (1,006 ) $ (654 ) $ (352 ) Oilseeds Processing operating profit increased 9% to $1.5 billion. Crushing and origination results increased $195 million to $1.0 billion, which include the $71 million gain on the revaluation of the Companys equity interest in Golden Peanut as a result of the acquisition of the remaining 50% interest. Improved North American crushing results, particularly for cotton seed and canola, were partially offset by lower crushing margins in South America and Europe. Margins globally were enhanced by good positioning and by improved origination results. In South America, fertilizer results improved due to higher margins and volumes. Refining, packaging, biodiesel and other results increased $38 million to $329 million due principally to higher packaged oils margins and improved North American and European biodiesel results. Asia results decreased $109 million due principally to decreased earnings from the Companys equity investee, Wilmar. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Corn Processing operating profit increased 47% to $1.1 billion, which includes favorable impacts from ownership positions, which were allocated to sweeteners and starches and bioproducts based on total grind. Sweeteners and starches operating profit decreased $209 million to $320 million due to higher net corn costs partially offset by higher sales volumes. Sales volumes increased due to U.S. export shipments of sweeteners and improved U.S. demand for industrial starches. Bioproducts operating profit improved $549 million primarily due to higher ethanol sales volumes and higher average selling prices leading to increased ethanol and lysine margins. Bioproducts margins were also enhanced by favorable corn ownership positions. Bioproducts results included startup costs related to the Companys new plants of $94 million in the current year compared to $107 million in the prior year. Agricultural Services operating profit increased 38% to $922 million. Merchandising and handling results increased due to higher corn and wheat sales volumes and higher margins. A large 2010 U.S. harvest combined with strong international demand resulted in higher U.S. export shipments. Merchandising and handling results this year include an insurance recovery of $67 million related to property damage and business interruption resulting from an October 2008 explosion at the Companys Destrehan, Louisiana export facility. International merchandising results were weaker in part due to positions impacted by unexpected shifts in crop supply caused by weather conditions and government actions in the Black Sea region. Transportation results increased $19 million to $104 million primarily due to higher barge freight rates and higher barge utilization levels, in part due to higher U.S. export volumes. Other operating profit increased 14% to $513 million. Other processing operating results improved in the Companys wheat milling and cocoa business units due principally to increased equity earnings from the Companys equity investee, Gruma, which include a $78 million gain related to the disposal of Gruma assets. Other financial operating profit decreased $7 million primarily due to higher captive insurance loss provisions principally related to a $67 million loss related to the Companys Destrehan, Louisiana export facility insurance claim. Corporate results decreased $352 million primarily due to the negative impact from changing LIFO inventory valuations and higher unallocated interest expense net. The effects of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory reserves resulted in charges of $368 million compared to credits of $42 million for the prior year. Corporate unallocated interest expense increased $52 million mostly due to lower capitalization of interest costs for construction projects in progress. Partially offsetting the higher LIFO and unallocated interest costs were $30 million of gains on interest rate swaps compared to prior year losses on interest rate swaps of $59 million. In addition, the prior year included charges of $75 million on early debt extinguishment compared to $8 million of similar charges in the current year. 2010 Compared to 2009 As an agricultural commodity based business, the Company is subject to a variety of market factors which affect the Companys operating results. Market expectations throughout most of fiscal 2010 for fewer global crop supply and demand imbalances, coupled with continuing uncertainty about short term demand, led to generally lower and less volatile agricultural commodity market prices and conditions. In addition, the late, extended U.S. harvest reduced profit opportunities. North American oilseed exports and U.S. crushing volumes were enhanced in 2010 by the poor supply of 2009 crop year soybeans in South America. Increased government mandates for the use of biodiesel in South America and Europe resulted in increased biodiesel demand and helped keep overall demand for refined and crude vegetable oil steady in these regions. However, in North America, demand for vegetable oils remained weak in 2010 due to low consumption of oils in the food service and biodiesel industries, in part due to the expiration of the biodiesel blending credit in the U.S. on January 1, 2010. Soybean protein meal demand improved, particularly in Asia. Market prices for corn decreased in 2010 resulting in lower raw material costs for corn processing and decreased average selling prices for sweeteners and starches. Lower energy, fuel and chemical costs per unit positively impacted the Companys manufacturing costs. More favorable ethanol blending economics together with increased ethanol merchandising activity resulted in increased demand, higher ethanol sales volumes, and improved margins. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Earnings before income taxes for 2010 include a credit of $42 million from the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations, compared to a credit of $517 million in 2009. Income taxes decreased $146 million due to a lower effective income tax rate, partially offset by higher pretax earnings. Income taxes for 2009 included a $158 million charge resulting from the restructuring of a holding company in which the Company holds a portion of its equity investment in Wilmar. Analysis of Statements of Earnings Net sales and other operating income by segment for 2010 and 2009 have been reclassified to conform to the current years presentation resulting in reclassified net sales and other operating income at the segment level with no impact to total net sales and other operating income or operating profit. Net sales and other operating income by segment are as follows: 2010 2009 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing and Origination $ 14,487 $ 15,013 $ (526 ) Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel and Other 7,133 8,756 (1,623 ) Asia 190 179 11 Total Oilseeds Processing 21,810 23,948 (2,138 ) Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 3,264 3,690 (426 ) Bioproducts 4,610 3,938 672 Total Corn Processing 7,874 7,628 246 Agricultural Services Merchandising and Handling 26,589 32,007 (5,418 ) Transportation 167 242 (75 ) Total Agricultural Services 26,756 32,249 (5,493 ) Other Processing 5,147 5,272 (125 ) Financial 95 110 (15 ) Total Other 5,242 5,382 (140 ) Total $ 61,682 $ 69,207 $ (7,525 ) Net sales and other operating income decreased 11% to $61.7 billion due principally to lower average selling prices in 2010 in line with year over year declines in underlying commodity costs. Oilseeds Processing sales decreased 9% to $21.8 billion, due principally to lower average selling prices for soybeans, protein meal, refined oil, and biodiesel partially offset by increased sales volumes of soybeans and fertilizer. Corn Processing sales increased 3% to $7.9 billion primarily as a result of increased sales volumes of ethanol and lysine partially offset by lower average selling prices of ethanol, sweeteners, and starches. Agricultural Services sales decreased 17% to $26.8 billion, due to lower average selling prices, in line with year over year declines in underlying commodity prices and lower sales volumes. Other sales decreased 3% to $5.2 billion, primarily due to lower average selling prices of wheat flour partially offset by increased wheat flour sales volumes and higher average selling prices and sales volumes for cocoa products. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Cost of products sold decreased 11% to $57.8 billion, due principally to decreased agricultural commodity costs including the impact of changes in LIFO inventory valuations which reduced cost of products sold by $42 million in 2010 compared to $517 million in 2009. Manufacturing expenses decreased 1% or $60 million, primarily due to lower energy, chemical and fuel costs partially offset by higher employee related costs and a $124 million increase in depreciation and amortization expense. In 2010, manufacturing expenses included additional costs associated with the Companys new greenfield plants. Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased 1% to $1.4 billion, due principally to decreased provisions for doubtful accounts partially offset by increased expenses for legal, professional, and commercial services. Equity earnings of unconsolidated affiliates increased $416 million to $561 million primarily due to the absence of a non cash charge of $275 million in 2009 related to currency derivative losses of the Companys equity investee, Gruma S.A.B. de C.V. Interest income declined $55 million to $126 million primarily due to lower average interest rates. Interest expense declined $47 million to $422 million primarily due to lower average interest rates. Other expense net increased $91 million due to pre tax charges of $75 million related to the early extinguishment of debt and $59 million for unrealized losses on interest rate swaps (for more information on the charges related to the early extinguishment of debt, see Note 8 in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data). Income taxes decreased $146 million due to a lower effective income tax rate partially offset by higher pretax earnings. The Companys effective income tax rate during 2010 was 25.8%. In 2009, the effective income tax rate was 32.5% which included $158 million of income tax charges related to the partial restructuring of the holding company structure through which the Company holds a portion of its equity investment in Wilmar. Excluding these Wilmar charges, the Companys effective income tax rate for 2009 was 26.2%. For more information concerning Wilmar tax matters see Note 13 in Item 8. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Operating profit by segment is as follows: 2010 2009 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing and Origination $ 818 $ 767 $ 51 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel and Other 291 265 26 Asia 291 248 43 Total Oilseeds Processing 1,400 1,280 120 Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 529 500 29 Bioproducts 193 (315 ) 508 Total Corn Processing 722 185 537 Agricultural Services Merchandising and Handling 583 832 (249 ) Transportation 85 162 (77 ) Total Agricultural Services 668 994 (326 ) Other Processing 403 51 352 Financial 46 (57 ) 103 Total Other 449 (6 ) 455 Total Segment Operating Profit 3,239 2,453 786 Corporate (see below) (654 ) 47 (701 ) Earnings Before Income Taxes $ 2,585 $ 2,500 $ 85 Corporate results are as follows: 2010 2009 Change (In millions) LIFO credit $ 42 $ 517 $ (475 ) Unallocated interest expense net (283 ) (192 ) (91 ) Unallocated corporate costs (266 ) (252 ) (14 ) Charges on early extinguishment of debt (75 ) (75 ) Unrealized losses on interest rate swaps (59 ) (59 ) Other (13 ) (26 ) 13 Total Corporate $ (654 ) $ 47 $ (701 ) Oilseeds Processing operating profit increased 9% to $1.4 billion. Crushing and origination results increased $51 million due to higher North American soybean crushing margins and favorable soft seed commodity positioning, partially offset by lower soybean crushing margins in Europe and South America. Refining, packaging, biodiesel and other operating profit increased $26 million due primarily to higher South American biodiesel results and improved margins in Europe. Oilseeds processing results in Asia increased $43 million to $291 million due principally to improved equity earnings of Wilmar. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Corn Processing operating profit increased $537 million to $722 million. Bioproducts operating profit increased $508 million due to improved ethanol and lysine sales volumes and improved ethanol margins resulting from lower net corn costs and decreased manufacturing costs. Ethanol sales volumes increased due to favorable gasoline blending economics and increased merchandising activity. Sweeteners and starches operating profit increased $29 million due to lower net corn and manufacturing costs due principally to lower energy and chemical prices. These lower manufacturing costs were partially offset by lower average selling prices. Agricultural Services operating profit decreased $326 million to $668 million. Merchandising and handling results decreased $249 million. Enhanced volume and margin opportunities created by 2009s volatile commodity markets and tight credit markets did not recur. Volumes and margins in 2010 benefited from strong demand for U.S. soybean exports following the short South American 2009 crop. Transportation results decreased $77 million due to lower barge freight rates and decreased barge utilization levels resulting from weaker U.S. economic conditions and the late, extended North American harvest. Other operating profit increased $455 million to $449 million. Other processing operating profit increased $352 million due to improved equity earnings from the Companys investment in Gruma, improved wheat milling margins, and improved cocoa processing results. Financial operating profit increased $103 million due primarily to the absence of losses experienced in 2009 from managed fund investments and captive insurance operations. Corporate results decreased $701 million. The effects of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations resulted in a credit of $42 million for the year ended June 30, 2010, compared to a credit of $517 million for the year ended June 30, 2009. Unallocated interest expense net increased $91 million reflecting a reduction in corporate interest income caused by lower short term interest rates and lower working capital requirements of the operating segments. In March 2010, the Company repurchased $500 million of long term debt which generated a $75 million pretax charge on early extinguishment of debt. In connection with a debt remarketing planned for 2011, the Company entered into interest rate swaps to fix the interest rate on a portion of the planned remarketing which resulted in $59 million of unrealized losses on interest rate swaps. Liquidity and Capital Resources A Company objective is to have sufficient liquidity, balance sheet strength, and financial flexibility to fund the operating and capital requirements of a capital intensive agricultural commodity based business. The primary source of funds to finance the Companys operations and capital expenditures is cash generated by operations. In addition, the Company maintains a commercial paper borrowing facility and has access to equity and debt capital from public and private sources in both U.S. and international markets. At June 30, 2011, the Company had $1.4 billion of cash, cash equivalents, and short term marketable securities and a current ratio, defined as current assets divided by current liabilities, of 2.1 to 1. Included in working capital is $7.1 billion of readily marketable commodity inventories. Cash used in operating activities was $2.3 billion for the year compared to cash provided by operating activities of $2.7 billion last year. Working capital increased in the current year due principally to higher agricultural commodity market prices. Cash used in investing activities of $1.7 billion, principally for capital expenditures, businesses acquired, and investments, was in line with last year. Cash provided by financing activities was $3.6 billion for the year compared to cash used in financing activities of $1.0 billion last year. Net borrowings increased primarily to fund higher working capital. Short term borrowings increased due principally to higher commercial paper borrowings, and long term borrowings increased primarily as a result of the issuance of $1.5 billion of 18 month floating rate notes in February 2011. In addition, the Company issued common stock and received $1.75 billion under the forward stock purchase component of the Companys Equity Units (see Note 8 in Item 8). At June 30, 2011, the Companys capital resources included net worth of $18.8 billion and lines of credit totaling $6.9 billion, of which $5.7 billion was unused. The Companys ratio of long term debt to total capital (the sum of the Companys long term debt and shareholders equity) was 30% at June 30, 2011 and 32% at June 30, 2010. This ratio is a measure of the Companys long term indebtedness and is an indicator of financial flexibility. Of the Companys total lines of credit, $4.6 billion support a commercial paper borrowing facility, against which there were $620 million of commercial paper outstanding at June 30, 2011. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) The Company has outstanding $1.15 billion principal amount of convertible senior notes. As of June 30, 2011, none of the conditions permitting conversion of these notes had been satisfied. The Company has purchased call options and warrants intended to reduce the potential shareholder dilution upon future conversion of the notes. As of June 30, 2011, the market price of the Companys common stock was not greater than the exercise price of the purchased call options or warrants related to the convertible senior notes. On July 1, 2011, the Company entered into a 364 day accounts receivable securitization facility. The facility provides the Company with up to $1.0 billion in liquidity. Under the facility, the Companys U.S. originated trade accounts receivable are sold to a wholly owned bankruptcy remote entity which then sells an undivided interest in the receivable as a collateral for any borrowings under the facility. Any borrowings under the facility will be recorded as secured borrowings. As of August 24, 2011, the Company had not used the facility. This facility expands the Companys access to liquidity through efficient use of its balance sheet assets. The Companys credit facilities and certain debentures require the Company to comply with specified financial and non financial covenants including maintenance of minimum tangible net worth as well as limitations related to incurring liens, secured debt, and certain other financing arrangements. The Company is in compliance with these covenants as of June 30, 2011. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements In the normal course of business, the Company enters into contracts and commitments which obligate the Company to make payments in the future. The following table sets forth the Companys significant future obligations by time period. Purchases include commodity based contracts entered into in the normal course of business, which are further described in Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, energy related purchase contracts entered into in the normal course of business, and other purchase obligations related to the Companys normal business activities. The following table does not include unrecognized income tax benefits of $79 million as of June 30, 2011 as the Company is unable to reasonably estimate the timing of settlement. Where applicable, information included in the Companys consolidated financial statements and notes is cross referenced in this table. Payments Due by Period Contractual Item 8 Note Less than 1 3 3 5 More than Obligations Reference Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years (In millions) Purchases Inventories $ 17,457 $ 16,593 $ 807 $ 43 $ 14 Energy 456 340 76 22 18 Other 398 168 186 35 9 Total purchases 18,311 17,101 1,069 100 41 Short term debt 1,875 1,875 Long term debt Note 8 8,444 178 2,875 46 5,345 Estimated interest payments 7,177 384 690 646 5,457 Operating leases Note 14 1,163 233 334 225 371 Estimated pension and other postretirement plan contributions (1) Note 15 167 55 19 21 72 Total $ 37,137 $ 19,826 $ 4,987 $ 1,038 $ 11,286 (1) Includes pension contributions of $47 million for fiscal 2012. The Company is unable to estimate the amount of pension contributions beyond fiscal year 2012. For more information concerning the Companys pension and other postretirement plans, see Note 15 in Item 8. At June 30, 2011, the Company estimates it will spend approximately $2.8 billion through calendar year 2014 to complete currently approved capital projects which are not included in the table above. The Company also has outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds of $620 million at June 30, 2011. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) In addition, the Company has entered into agreements, primarily debt guarantee agreements related to equity method investees, which could obligate the Company to make future payments. The Companys liability under these agreements arises only if the primary entity fails to perform its contractual obligation. The Company has collateral for a portion of these contingent obligations. At June 30, 2011, these contingent obligations totaled approximately $121 million. Amounts outstanding for the primary entity under these contingent obligations were $69 million at June 30, 2011. Critical Accounting Policies The process of preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the carrying values of the Companys assets and liabilities as well as the recognition of revenues and expenses. These estimates and judgments are based on the Companys historical experience and managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Certain of the Companys accounting policies are considered critical, as these policies are important to the depiction of the Companys financial statements and require significant or complex judgment by management. Management has discussed with the Companys Audit Committee the development, selection, disclosure, and application of these critical accounting policies. Following are the accounting policies management considers critical to the Companys financial statements. Inventories and Derivatives Certain of the Companys merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, forward fixed price purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts are valued at estimated market values. These merchandisable agricultural commodities are freely traded, have quoted market prices, and may be sold without significant additional processing. Management estimates market value based on exchange quoted prices, adjusted for differences in local markets. Changes in the market values of these inventories and contracts are recognized in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. If management used different methods or factors to estimate market value, amounts reported as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. Additionally, if market conditions change subsequent to year end, amounts reported in future periods as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. The Company, from time to time, uses derivative contracts designated as cash flow hedges to fix the purchase price of anticipated volumes of commodities to be purchased and processed in a future month, to fix the purchase price of the Companys anticipated natural gas requirements for certain production facilities, and to fix the sales price of anticipated volumes of ethanol. The change in the market value of such derivative contracts has historically been, and is expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold and net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. If it is determined that the derivative instruments used are no longer effective at offsetting changes in the price of the hedged item, then the changes in the market value of these exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts would be recorded in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. See Note 4 in Item 8 for additional information. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Employee Benefit Plans The Company provides substantially all U.S. employees and employees at certain international subsidiaries with pension benefits. Eligible U.S. employees with five or more years of service prior to January 1, 2009 participate in a defined benefit pension plan. Eligible U.S. employees hired on or after January 1, 2009 (and eligible salaried employees with less than five years of service prior to January 1, 2009) participate in a cash balance pension formula. The Company provides eligible U.S. employees who retire under qualifying conditions with access to postretirement health care, at full cost to the retiree (certain employees are grandfathered into subsidized coverage). In order to measure the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans, management makes several estimates and assumptions, including interest rates used to discount certain liabilities, rates of return on assets set aside to fund these plans, rates of compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and anticipated future health care costs. These estimates and assumptions are based on the Companys historical experience combined with managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Management also uses third party actuaries to assist in measuring the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans. If management used different estimates and assumptions regarding these plans, the funded status of the plans could vary significantly, and the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. See Note 15 in Item 8 for additional information. Income Taxes The Company frequently faces challenges from U.S. and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company records reserves for estimates of potential additional tax owed by the Company. As an example, a subsidiary of the Company received tax assessments in the amount of $665 million consisting of tax, penalty, and interest (adjusted for interest and variation in currency exchange rates) from the Brazilian Federal Revenue Service challenging the deductibility of commodity hedging losses incurred by the Company for tax years 2004, 2006 and 2007. The Company evaluated its tax position regarding these hedging transactions and concluded, based in part upon advice from Brazilian legal counsel, that it was appropriate to recognize the tax benefits of these deductions (See Note 13 in Item 8 for additional information). Deferred tax assets represent items to be used as tax deductions or credits in future tax returns, and the related tax benefit has already been recognized in the Companys income statement. The realization of the Companys deferred tax assets is dependent upon future taxable income in specific tax jurisdictions, the timing and amount of which are uncertain. The Company evaluates all available positive and negative evidence including estimated future reversals of existing temporary differences, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies, and recent financial results. Valuation allowances related to these deferred tax assets have been established to the extent the realization of the tax benefit is not likely. To the extent the Company were to favorably resolve matters for which accruals have been established or be required to pay amounts in excess of the aforementioned reserves, the Companys effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be impacted. Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and the Companys share of the undistributed earnings of affiliated corporate joint venture companies accounted for on the equity method amounting to approximately $8.2 billion at June 30, 2011, are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned factors may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and cash flows of the Companys assets in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its factories. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment, technology, and companies related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. Assets are written down after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these assets, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Goodwill and other intangible assets The Company accounts for its goodwill and other intangible assets in accordance with ASC Topic 350, Intangibles Goodwill and Other. Under this standard, goodwill and intangible assets deemed to have indefinite lives are not amortized but are subject to annual impairment tests. The Company evaluates goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year or whenever there are indicators that the carrying value of the assets may not be fully recoverable. Definite lived intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its impairment tests, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Valuation of Marketable Securities and Investments in Affiliates The Company classifies the majority of its marketable securities as available for sale and carries these securities at fair value. The Company applies the equity method for investments over which the Company has the ability to exercise significant influence. These investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings and are adjusted, where appropriate, for amortizable basis differences between the investment balance and the underlying net assets of the investee. For publicly traded securities, the fair value of the Companys investments is readily available based on quoted market prices. For non publicly traded securities, managements assessment of fair value is based on valuation methodologies including discounted cash flows and estimates of sales proceeds. In the event of a decline in fair value of an investment below carrying value, management is required to determine if the decline in fair value is other than temporary. In evaluating the nature of a decline in the fair value of an investment, management considers the market conditions, trends of earnings, discounted cash flows, trading volumes, and other key measures of the investment as well as the Companys ability and intent to hold the investment. When such a decline in value is deemed to be other than temporary, an impairment loss is recognized in the current period operating results to the extent of the decline. See Notes 5 and 6 in Item 8 for information regarding the Companys marketable securities and investments in affiliates. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these marketable securities, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in: commodity market prices as they relate to the Companys net commodity position, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and prices of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to factors such as changes in weather conditions, disease, plantings, government programs and policies, competition, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. The Company enters into derivative and non derivative contracts with the primary objective of managing the Companys exposure to adverse price movements in the agricultural commodities used for, and produced in, our business operations. The Company will also use exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the volatility of the relationship between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contracts defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company, from time to time, enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold or net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. The Companys commodity position consists of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, related purchase and sales contracts, energy and freight contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts including contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements, net of sales. The fair value of the Companys commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing all of the commodity positions at quoted market prices for the period, where available, or utilizing a close proxy. The Company has established metrics to monitor the amount of market risk exposure, which consist of volumetric limits, and value at risk (VaR) limits. VaR measures the potential loss, at a 95% confidence level, that could be incurred over a one year period. Volumetric limits are monitored daily and VaR calculations and sensitivity analysis are monitored weekly. In addition to measuring the hypothetical loss resulting from an adverse two standard deviation move in market prices (assuming no correlations) over a one year period using VaR, sensitivity analysis is performed measuring the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in market prices. The highest, lowest, and average weekly position for each of the last two years together with the market risk from a hypothetical 10% adverse price change is as follows: 2011 2010 Long/(Short) Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest position $ 2,388 $ 239 $ 738 $ 74 Lowest position 368 37 (183 ) (18 ) Average position 1,644 164 216 22 The change in fair value of the average position for 2011 compared to 2010 was principally the result of changes in average quantities underlying the weekly commodity position. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) Currencies The Company conducts its business in over 75 countries. For the majority of the Companys subsidiaries located outside the United States, the local currency is the functional currency. To reduce the risks associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, the Company enters into currency exchange contracts to minimize its foreign currency position related to transactions denominated primarily in Euro, British pound, Canadian dollar, and Brazilian real currencies. These currencies represent the major functional or local currencies in which recurring business transactions occur. The Company does not use currency exchange contracts as hedges against amounts permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The currency exchange contracts used are forward contracts, swaps with banks, exchange traded futures contracts, and over the counter options. The changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $8.2 billion at June 30, 2011, and $6.4 billion at June 30, 2010. This increase is due to the appreciation of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar and an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The potential loss in fair value, which would principally be recognized in Other Comprehensive Income, resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $837 million and $639 million for 2011 and 2010, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 50 basis points decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2011 2010 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 9,108 $ 7,700 Excess of fair value over carrying value 842 870 Market risk 333 289 The increase in fair value of long term debt in 2011 resulted principally from the issuance of $1.5 billion of 18 month floating rate notes in February 2011. 
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Cost of products sold increased 32% to $76.4 billion due to higher costs of agricultural commodities, negative impacts resulting from changes in LIFO inventory valuations, and higher manufacturing costs. Cost of products sold includes charges of $368 million from the effect of increasing agricultural commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuation reserves, compared to credits of $42 million in the prior year caused by decreasing agricultural commodity prices. Manufacturing expenses increased $410 million due primarily to higher processed volumes, including the volumes of the Companys new greenfield operations coming on line, and higher average unit costs for certain chemicals and fuels used in the Companys processing and transportation operations. During the second quarter of fiscal 2011, the Company updated its estimates for service lives of certain of its machinery and equipment assets. This change in estimate resulted in a $133 million decrease in depreciation expense compared to the amount of depreciation expense the Company would have recorded using the previously estimated service lives. Manufacturing expenses included $94 million in fiscal 2011 related to the start up of new plants compared to $110 million in the prior year. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased 15% to $1.6 billion. This increase was due to higher employee related costs and higher administrative expenses. Higher employee related costs principally reflect the increase in number of employees during the year and included higher salaries and wages, higher accruals for performance based compensation and higher benefit expenses. Equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates declined 3% to $542 million. The decline in earnings from the Companys equity investee, Wilmar, were partially offset by higher earnings of the Companys equity investee, Gruma, in part due to a gain on disposition of assets. Interest income increased 8% to $136 million principally resulting from higher interest earned on advances to affiliates. Interest expense increased 14% to $482 million. Interest costs capitalized as a component of major construction projects in progress was $7 million compared to $75 million in the prior year. Interest incurred on long term debt declined $24 million as a result of debt retirements while interest incurred on short term debt increased $15 million due to higher average borrowings driven by higher working capital requirements. Other (income) expense net increased $255 million primarily due to the $71 million gain resulting from the revaluation of the Companys previously held equity interest in Golden Peanut upon acquisition of the remaining 50% interest, gains on interest rate swaps of $30 million compared to a loss of $59 million in the prior year, and a decrease in charges related to early extinguishment of debt from $75 million in the prior year to $15 million in the current year. Income taxes increased $331 million to $997 million due to a higher effective income tax rate and higher pretax earnings. The Companys effective income tax rate increased to 33.1% during 2011 compared to 25.8% in fiscal 2010. The increase in the current year rate is primarily due to a geographic mix of earnings that shifted more to the U.S., a higher U.S. effective income tax rate, income tax expense associated with foreign currency re measurement of non monetary assets in Brazil, and adjustments to deferred income tax balances. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Operating profit by segment is as follows: 2011 2010 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing and Origination $ 1,013 $ 818 $ 195 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel and Other 329 291 38 Asia 182 291 (109 ) Total Oilseeds Processing 1,524 1,400 124 Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 320 529 (209 ) Bioproducts 742 193 549 Total Corn Processing 1,062 722 340 Agricultural Services Merchandising and Handling 818 583 235 Transportation 104 85 19 Total Agricultural Services 922 668 254 Other Processing 474 403 71 Financial 39 46 (7 ) Total Other 513 449 64 Total Segment Operating Profit 4,021 3,239 782 Corporate (see below) (1,006 ) (654 ) (352 ) Earnings Before Income Taxes $ 3,015 $ 2,585 $ 430 Corporate results are as follows: 2011 2010 Change (In millions) LIFO credit (charge) $ (368 ) $ 42 $ (410 ) Unallocated interest expense net (335 ) (283 ) (52 ) Unallocated corporate costs (326 ) (266 ) (60 ) Charges on early extinguishment of debt (8 ) (75 ) 67 Gains (losses) on interest rate swaps 30 (59 ) 89 Other 1 (13 ) 14 Total Corporate $ (1,006 ) $ (654 ) $ (352 ) Oilseeds Processing operating profit increased 9% to $1.5 billion. Crushing and origination results increased $195 million to $1.0 billion, which include the $71 million gain on the revaluation of the Companys equity interest in Golden Peanut as a result of the acquisition of the remaining 50% interest. Improved North American crushing results, particularly for cotton seed and canola, were partially offset by lower crushing margins in South America and Europe. Margins globally were enhanced by good positioning and by improved origination results. In South America, fertilizer results improved due to higher margins and volumes. Refining, packaging, biodiesel and other results increased $38 million to $329 million due principally to higher packaged oils margins and improved North American and European biodiesel results. Asia results decreased $109 million due principally to decreased earnings from the Companys equity investee, Wilmar. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Corn Processing operating profit increased 47% to $1.1 billion, which includes favorable impacts from ownership positions, which were allocated to sweeteners and starches and bioproducts based on total grind. Sweeteners and starches operating profit decreased $209 million to $320 million due to higher net corn costs partially offset by higher sales volumes. Sales volumes increased due to U.S. export shipments of sweeteners and improved U.S. demand for industrial starches. Bioproducts operating profit improved $549 million primarily due to higher ethanol sales volumes and higher average selling prices leading to increased ethanol and lysine margins. Bioproducts margins were also enhanced by favorable corn ownership positions. Bioproducts results included startup costs related to the Companys new plants of $94 million in the current year compared to $107 million in the prior year. Agricultural Services operating profit increased 38% to $922 million. Merchandising and handling results increased due to higher corn and wheat sales volumes and higher margins. A large 2010 U.S. harvest combined with strong international demand resulted in higher U.S. export shipments. Merchandising and handling results this year include an insurance recovery of $67 million related to property damage and business interruption resulting from an October 2008 explosion at the Companys Destrehan, Louisiana export facility. International merchandising results were weaker in part due to positions impacted by unexpected shifts in crop supply caused by weather conditions and government actions in the Black Sea region. Transportation results increased $19 million to $104 million primarily due to higher barge freight rates and higher barge utilization levels, in part due to higher U.S. export volumes. Other operating profit increased 14% to $513 million. Other processing operating results improved in the Companys wheat milling and cocoa business units due principally to increased equity earnings from the Companys equity investee, Gruma, which include a $78 million gain related to the disposal of Gruma assets. Other financial operating profit decreased $7 million primarily due to higher captive insurance loss provisions principally related to a $67 million loss related to the Companys Destrehan, Louisiana export facility insurance claim. Corporate results decreased $352 million primarily due to the negative impact from changing LIFO inventory valuations and higher unallocated interest expense net. The effects of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory reserves resulted in charges of $368 million compared to credits of $42 million for the prior year. Corporate unallocated interest expense increased $52 million mostly due to lower capitalization of interest costs for construction projects in progress. Partially offsetting the higher LIFO and unallocated interest costs were $30 million of gains on interest rate swaps compared to prior year losses on interest rate swaps of $59 million. In addition, the prior year included charges of $75 million on early debt extinguishment compared to $8 million of similar charges in the current year. 2010 Compared to 2009 As an agricultural commodity based business, the Company is subject to a variety of market factors which affect the Companys operating results. Market expectations throughout most of fiscal 2010 for fewer global crop supply and demand imbalances, coupled with continuing uncertainty about short term demand, led to generally lower and less volatile agricultural commodity market prices and conditions. In addition, the late, extended U.S. harvest reduced profit opportunities. North American oilseed exports and U.S. crushing volumes were enhanced in 2010 by the poor supply of 2009 crop year soybeans in South America. Increased government mandates for the use of biodiesel in South America and Europe resulted in increased biodiesel demand and helped keep overall demand for refined and crude vegetable oil steady in these regions. However, in North America, demand for vegetable oils remained weak in 2010 due to low consumption of oils in the food service and biodiesel industries, in part due to the expiration of the biodiesel blending credit in the U.S. on January 1, 2010. Soybean protein meal demand improved, particularly in Asia. Market prices for corn decreased in 2010 resulting in lower raw material costs for corn processing and decreased average selling prices for sweeteners and starches. Lower energy, fuel and chemical costs per unit positively impacted the Companys manufacturing costs. More favorable ethanol blending economics together with increased ethanol merchandising activity resulted in increased demand, higher ethanol sales volumes, and improved margins. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Earnings before income taxes for 2010 include a credit of $42 million from the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations, compared to a credit of $517 million in 2009. Income taxes decreased $146 million due to a lower effective income tax rate, partially offset by higher pretax earnings. Income taxes for 2009 included a $158 million charge resulting from the restructuring of a holding company in which the Company holds a portion of its equity investment in Wilmar. Analysis of Statements of Earnings Net sales and other operating income by segment for 2010 and 2009 have been reclassified to conform to the current years presentation resulting in reclassified net sales and other operating income at the segment level with no impact to total net sales and other operating income or operating profit. Net sales and other operating income by segment are as follows: 2010 2009 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing and Origination $ 14,487 $ 15,013 $ (526 ) Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel and Other 7,133 8,756 (1,623 ) Asia 190 179 11 Total Oilseeds Processing 21,810 23,948 (2,138 ) Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 3,264 3,690 (426 ) Bioproducts 4,610 3,938 672 Total Corn Processing 7,874 7,628 246 Agricultural Services Merchandising and Handling 26,589 32,007 (5,418 ) Transportation 167 242 (75 ) Total Agricultural Services 26,756 32,249 (5,493 ) Other Processing 5,147 5,272 (125 ) Financial 95 110 (15 ) Total Other 5,242 5,382 (140 ) Total $ 61,682 $ 69,207 $ (7,525 ) Net sales and other operating income decreased 11% to $61.7 billion due principally to lower average selling prices in 2010 in line with year over year declines in underlying commodity costs. Oilseeds Processing sales decreased 9% to $21.8 billion, due principally to lower average selling prices for soybeans, protein meal, refined oil, and biodiesel partially offset by increased sales volumes of soybeans and fertilizer. Corn Processing sales increased 3% to $7.9 billion primarily as a result of increased sales volumes of ethanol and lysine partially offset by lower average selling prices of ethanol, sweeteners, and starches. Agricultural Services sales decreased 17% to $26.8 billion, due to lower average selling prices, in line with year over year declines in underlying commodity prices and lower sales volumes. Other sales decreased 3% to $5.2 billion, primarily due to lower average selling prices of wheat flour partially offset by increased wheat flour sales volumes and higher average selling prices and sales volumes for cocoa products. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Cost of products sold decreased 11% to $57.8 billion, due principally to decreased agricultural commodity costs including the impact of changes in LIFO inventory valuations which reduced cost of products sold by $42 million in 2010 compared to $517 million in 2009. Manufacturing expenses decreased 1% or $60 million, primarily due to lower energy, chemical and fuel costs partially offset by higher employee related costs and a $124 million increase in depreciation and amortization expense. In 2010, manufacturing expenses included additional costs associated with the Companys new greenfield plants. Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased 1% to $1.4 billion, due principally to decreased provisions for doubtful accounts partially offset by increased expenses for legal, professional, and commercial services. Equity earnings of unconsolidated affiliates increased $416 million to $561 million primarily due to the absence of a non cash charge of $275 million in 2009 related to currency derivative losses of the Companys equity investee, Gruma S.A.B. de C.V. Interest income declined $55 million to $126 million primarily due to lower average interest rates. Interest expense declined $47 million to $422 million primarily due to lower average interest rates. Other expense net increased $91 million due to pre tax charges of $75 million related to the early extinguishment of debt and $59 million for unrealized losses on interest rate swaps (for more information on the charges related to the early extinguishment of debt, see Note 8 in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data). Income taxes decreased $146 million due to a lower effective income tax rate partially offset by higher pretax earnings. The Companys effective income tax rate during 2010 was 25.8%. In 2009, the effective income tax rate was 32.5% which included $158 million of income tax charges related to the partial restructuring of the holding company structure through which the Company holds a portion of its equity investment in Wilmar. Excluding these Wilmar charges, the Companys effective income tax rate for 2009 was 26.2%. For more information concerning Wilmar tax matters see Note 13 in Item 8. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Operating profit by segment is as follows: 2010 2009 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing and Origination $ 818 $ 767 $ 51 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel and Other 291 265 26 Asia 291 248 43 Total Oilseeds Processing 1,400 1,280 120 Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 529 500 29 Bioproducts 193 (315 ) 508 Total Corn Processing 722 185 537 Agricultural Services Merchandising and Handling 583 832 (249 ) Transportation 85 162 (77 ) Total Agricultural Services 668 994 (326 ) Other Processing 403 51 352 Financial 46 (57 ) 103 Total Other 449 (6 ) 455 Total Segment Operating Profit 3,239 2,453 786 Corporate (see below) (654 ) 47 (701 ) Earnings Before Income Taxes $ 2,585 $ 2,500 $ 85 Corporate results are as follows: 2010 2009 Change (In millions) LIFO credit $ 42 $ 517 $ (475 ) Unallocated interest expense net (283 ) (192 ) (91 ) Unallocated corporate costs (266 ) (252 ) (14 ) Charges on early extinguishment of debt (75 ) (75 ) Unrealized losses on interest rate swaps (59 ) (59 ) Other (13 ) (26 ) 13 Total Corporate $ (654 ) $ 47 $ (701 ) Oilseeds Processing operating profit increased 9% to $1.4 billion. Crushing and origination results increased $51 million due to higher North American soybean crushing margins and favorable soft seed commodity positioning, partially offset by lower soybean crushing margins in Europe and South America. Refining, packaging, biodiesel and other operating profit increased $26 million due primarily to higher South American biodiesel results and improved margins in Europe. Oilseeds processing results in Asia increased $43 million to $291 million due principally to improved equity earnings of Wilmar. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Corn Processing operating profit increased $537 million to $722 million. Bioproducts operating profit increased $508 million due to improved ethanol and lysine sales volumes and improved ethanol margins resulting from lower net corn costs and decreased manufacturing costs. Ethanol sales volumes increased due to favorable gasoline blending economics and increased merchandising activity. Sweeteners and starches operating profit increased $29 million due to lower net corn and manufacturing costs due principally to lower energy and chemical prices. These lower manufacturing costs were partially offset by lower average selling prices. Agricultural Services operating profit decreased $326 million to $668 million. Merchandising and handling results decreased $249 million. Enhanced volume and margin opportunities created by 2009s volatile commodity markets and tight credit markets did not recur. Volumes and margins in 2010 benefited from strong demand for U.S. soybean exports following the short South American 2009 crop. Transportation results decreased $77 million due to lower barge freight rates and decreased barge utilization levels resulting from weaker U.S. economic conditions and the late, extended North American harvest. Other operating profit increased $455 million to $449 million. Other processing operating profit increased $352 million due to improved equity earnings from the Companys investment in Gruma, improved wheat milling margins, and improved cocoa processing results. Financial operating profit increased $103 million due primarily to the absence of losses experienced in 2009 from managed fund investments and captive insurance operations. Corporate results decreased $701 million. The effects of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations resulted in a credit of $42 million for the year ended June 30, 2010, compared to a credit of $517 million for the year ended June 30, 2009. Unallocated interest expense net increased $91 million reflecting a reduction in corporate interest income caused by lower short term interest rates and lower working capital requirements of the operating segments. In March 2010, the Company repurchased $500 million of long term debt which generated a $75 million pretax charge on early extinguishment of debt. In connection with a debt remarketing planned for 2011, the Company entered into interest rate swaps to fix the interest rate on a portion of the planned remarketing which resulted in $59 million of unrealized losses on interest rate swaps. Liquidity and Capital Resources A Company objective is to have sufficient liquidity, balance sheet strength, and financial flexibility to fund the operating and capital requirements of a capital intensive agricultural commodity based business. The primary source of funds to finance the Companys operations and capital expenditures is cash generated by operations. In addition, the Company maintains a commercial paper borrowing facility and has access to equity and debt capital from public and private sources in both U.S. and international markets. At June 30, 2011, the Company had $1.4 billion of cash, cash equivalents, and short term marketable securities and a current ratio, defined as current assets divided by current liabilities, of 2.1 to 1. Included in working capital is $7.1 billion of readily marketable commodity inventories. Cash used in operating activities was $2.3 billion for the year compared to cash provided by operating activities of $2.7 billion last year. Working capital increased in the current year due principally to higher agricultural commodity market prices. Cash used in investing activities of $1.7 billion, principally for capital expenditures, businesses acquired, and investments, was in line with last year. Cash provided by financing activities was $3.6 billion for the year compared to cash used in financing activities of $1.0 billion last year. Net borrowings increased primarily to fund higher working capital. Short term borrowings increased due principally to higher commercial paper borrowings, and long term borrowings increased primarily as a result of the issuance of $1.5 billion of 18 month floating rate notes in February 2011. In addition, the Company issued common stock and received $1.75 billion under the forward stock purchase component of the Companys Equity Units (see Note 8 in Item 8). At June 30, 2011, the Companys capital resources included net worth of $18.8 billion and lines of credit totaling $6.9 billion, of which $5.7 billion was unused. The Companys ratio of long term debt to total capital (the sum of the Companys long term debt and shareholders equity) was 30% at June 30, 2011 and 32% at June 30, 2010. This ratio is a measure of the Companys long term indebtedness and is an indicator of financial flexibility. Of the Companys total lines of credit, $4.6 billion support a commercial paper borrowing facility, against which there were $620 million of commercial paper outstanding at June 30, 2011. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) The Company has outstanding $1.15 billion principal amount of convertible senior notes. As of June 30, 2011, none of the conditions permitting conversion of these notes had been satisfied. The Company has purchased call options and warrants intended to reduce the potential shareholder dilution upon future conversion of the notes. As of June 30, 2011, the market price of the Companys common stock was not greater than the exercise price of the purchased call options or warrants related to the convertible senior notes. On July 1, 2011, the Company entered into a 364 day accounts receivable securitization facility. The facility provides the Company with up to $1.0 billion in liquidity. Under the facility, the Companys U.S. originated trade accounts receivable are sold to a wholly owned bankruptcy remote entity which then sells an undivided interest in the receivable as a collateral for any borrowings under the facility. Any borrowings under the facility will be recorded as secured borrowings. As of August 24, 2011, the Company had not used the facility. This facility expands the Companys access to liquidity through efficient use of its balance sheet assets. The Companys credit facilities and certain debentures require the Company to comply with specified financial and non financial covenants including maintenance of minimum tangible net worth as well as limitations related to incurring liens, secured debt, and certain other financing arrangements. The Company is in compliance with these covenants as of June 30, 2011. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements In the normal course of business, the Company enters into contracts and commitments which obligate the Company to make payments in the future. The following table sets forth the Companys significant future obligations by time period. Purchases include commodity based contracts entered into in the normal course of business, which are further described in Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, energy related purchase contracts entered into in the normal course of business, and other purchase obligations related to the Companys normal business activities. The following table does not include unrecognized income tax benefits of $79 million as of June 30, 2011 as the Company is unable to reasonably estimate the timing of settlement. Where applicable, information included in the Companys consolidated financial statements and notes is cross referenced in this table. Payments Due by Period Contractual Item 8 Note Less than 1 3 3 5 More than Obligations Reference Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years (In millions) Purchases Inventories $ 17,457 $ 16,593 $ 807 $ 43 $ 14 Energy 456 340 76 22 18 Other 398 168 186 35 9 Total purchases 18,311 17,101 1,069 100 41 Short term debt 1,875 1,875 Long term debt Note 8 8,444 178 2,875 46 5,345 Estimated interest payments 7,177 384 690 646 5,457 Operating leases Note 14 1,163 233 334 225 371 Estimated pension and other postretirement plan contributions (1) Note 15 167 55 19 21 72 Total $ 37,137 $ 19,826 $ 4,987 $ 1,038 $ 11,286 (1) Includes pension contributions of $47 million for fiscal 2012. The Company is unable to estimate the amount of pension contributions beyond fiscal year 2012. For more information concerning the Companys pension and other postretirement plans, see Note 15 in Item 8. At June 30, 2011, the Company estimates it will spend approximately $2.8 billion through calendar year 2014 to complete currently approved capital projects which are not included in the table above. The Company also has outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds of $620 million at June 30, 2011. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) In addition, the Company has entered into agreements, primarily debt guarantee agreements related to equity method investees, which could obligate the Company to make future payments. The Companys liability under these agreements arises only if the primary entity fails to perform its contractual obligation. The Company has collateral for a portion of these contingent obligations. At June 30, 2011, these contingent obligations totaled approximately $121 million. Amounts outstanding for the primary entity under these contingent obligations were $69 million at June 30, 2011. Critical Accounting Policies The process of preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the carrying values of the Companys assets and liabilities as well as the recognition of revenues and expenses. These estimates and judgments are based on the Companys historical experience and managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Certain of the Companys accounting policies are considered critical, as these policies are important to the depiction of the Companys financial statements and require significant or complex judgment by management. Management has discussed with the Companys Audit Committee the development, selection, disclosure, and application of these critical accounting policies. Following are the accounting policies management considers critical to the Companys financial statements. Inventories and Derivatives Certain of the Companys merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, forward fixed price purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts are valued at estimated market values. These merchandisable agricultural commodities are freely traded, have quoted market prices, and may be sold without significant additional processing. Management estimates market value based on exchange quoted prices, adjusted for differences in local markets. Changes in the market values of these inventories and contracts are recognized in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. If management used different methods or factors to estimate market value, amounts reported as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. Additionally, if market conditions change subsequent to year end, amounts reported in future periods as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. The Company, from time to time, uses derivative contracts designated as cash flow hedges to fix the purchase price of anticipated volumes of commodities to be purchased and processed in a future month, to fix the purchase price of the Companys anticipated natural gas requirements for certain production facilities, and to fix the sales price of anticipated volumes of ethanol. The change in the market value of such derivative contracts has historically been, and is expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold and net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. If it is determined that the derivative instruments used are no longer effective at offsetting changes in the price of the hedged item, then the changes in the market value of these exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts would be recorded in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. See Note 4 in Item 8 for additional information. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Employee Benefit Plans The Company provides substantially all U.S. employees and employees at certain international subsidiaries with pension benefits. Eligible U.S. employees with five or more years of service prior to January 1, 2009 participate in a defined benefit pension plan. Eligible U.S. employees hired on or after January 1, 2009 (and eligible salaried employees with less than five years of service prior to January 1, 2009) participate in a cash balance pension formula. The Company provides eligible U.S. employees who retire under qualifying conditions with access to postretirement health care, at full cost to the retiree (certain employees are grandfathered into subsidized coverage). In order to measure the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans, management makes several estimates and assumptions, including interest rates used to discount certain liabilities, rates of return on assets set aside to fund these plans, rates of compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and anticipated future health care costs. These estimates and assumptions are based on the Companys historical experience combined with managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Management also uses third party actuaries to assist in measuring the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans. If management used different estimates and assumptions regarding these plans, the funded status of the plans could vary significantly, and the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. See Note 15 in Item 8 for additional information. Income Taxes The Company frequently faces challenges from U.S. and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company records reserves for estimates of potential additional tax owed by the Company. As an example, a subsidiary of the Company received tax assessments in the amount of $665 million consisting of tax, penalty, and interest (adjusted for interest and variation in currency exchange rates) from the Brazilian Federal Revenue Service challenging the deductibility of commodity hedging losses incurred by the Company for tax years 2004, 2006 and 2007. The Company evaluated its tax position regarding these hedging transactions and concluded, based in part upon advice from Brazilian legal counsel, that it was appropriate to recognize the tax benefits of these deductions (See Note 13 in Item 8 for additional information). Deferred tax assets represent items to be used as tax deductions or credits in future tax returns, and the related tax benefit has already been recognized in the Companys income statement. The realization of the Companys deferred tax assets is dependent upon future taxable income in specific tax jurisdictions, the timing and amount of which are uncertain. The Company evaluates all available positive and negative evidence including estimated future reversals of existing temporary differences, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies, and recent financial results. Valuation allowances related to these deferred tax assets have been established to the extent the realization of the tax benefit is not likely. To the extent the Company were to favorably resolve matters for which accruals have been established or be required to pay amounts in excess of the aforementioned reserves, the Companys effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be impacted. Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and the Companys share of the undistributed earnings of affiliated corporate joint venture companies accounted for on the equity method amounting to approximately $8.2 billion at June 30, 2011, are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned factors may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and cash flows of the Companys assets in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its factories. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment, technology, and companies related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. Assets are written down after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these assets, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Goodwill and other intangible assets The Company accounts for its goodwill and other intangible assets in accordance with ASC Topic 350, Intangibles Goodwill and Other. Under this standard, goodwill and intangible assets deemed to have indefinite lives are not amortized but are subject to annual impairment tests. The Company evaluates goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year or whenever there are indicators that the carrying value of the assets may not be fully recoverable. Definite lived intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its impairment tests, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Valuation of Marketable Securities and Investments in Affiliates The Company classifies the majority of its marketable securities as available for sale and carries these securities at fair value. The Company applies the equity method for investments over which the Company has the ability to exercise significant influence. These investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings and are adjusted, where appropriate, for amortizable basis differences between the investment balance and the underlying net assets of the investee. For publicly traded securities, the fair value of the Companys investments is readily available based on quoted market prices. For non publicly traded securities, managements assessment of fair value is based on valuation methodologies including discounted cash flows and estimates of sales proceeds. In the event of a decline in fair value of an investment below carrying value, management is required to determine if the decline in fair value is other than temporary. In evaluating the nature of a decline in the fair value of an investment, management considers the market conditions, trends of earnings, discounted cash flows, trading volumes, and other key measures of the investment as well as the Companys ability and intent to hold the investment. When such a decline in value is deemed to be other than temporary, an impairment loss is recognized in the current period operating results to the extent of the decline. See Notes 5 and 6 in Item 8 for information regarding the Companys marketable securities and investments in affiliates. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these marketable securities, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in: commodity market prices as they relate to the Companys net commodity position, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and prices of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to factors such as changes in weather conditions, disease, plantings, government programs and policies, competition, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. The Company enters into derivative and non derivative contracts with the primary objective of managing the Companys exposure to adverse price movements in the agricultural commodities used for, and produced in, our business operations. The Company will also use exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the volatility of the relationship between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contracts defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company, from time to time, enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold or net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. The Companys commodity position consists of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, related purchase and sales contracts, energy and freight contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts including contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements, net of sales. The fair value of the Companys commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing all of the commodity positions at quoted market prices for the period, where available, or utilizing a close proxy. The Company has established metrics to monitor the amount of market risk exposure, which consist of volumetric limits, and value at risk (VaR) limits. VaR measures the potential loss, at a 95% confidence level, that could be incurred over a one year period. Volumetric limits are monitored daily and VaR calculations and sensitivity analysis are monitored weekly. In addition to measuring the hypothetical loss resulting from an adverse two standard deviation move in market prices (assuming no correlations) over a one year period using VaR, sensitivity analysis is performed measuring the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in market prices. The highest, lowest, and average weekly position for each of the last two years together with the market risk from a hypothetical 10% adverse price change is as follows: 2011 2010 Long/(Short) Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest position $ 2,388 $ 239 $ 738 $ 74 Lowest position 368 37 (183 ) (18 ) Average position 1,644 164 216 22 The change in fair value of the average position for 2011 compared to 2010 was principally the result of changes in average quantities underlying the weekly commodity position. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) Currencies The Company conducts its business in over 75 countries. For the majority of the Companys subsidiaries located outside the United States, the local currency is the functional currency. To reduce the risks associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, the Company enters into currency exchange contracts to minimize its foreign currency position related to transactions denominated primarily in Euro, British pound, Canadian dollar, and Brazilian real currencies. These currencies represent the major functional or local currencies in which recurring business transactions occur. The Company does not use currency exchange contracts as hedges against amounts permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The currency exchange contracts used are forward contracts, swaps with banks, exchange traded futures contracts, and over the counter options. The changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $8.2 billion at June 30, 2011, and $6.4 billion at June 30, 2010. This increase is due to the appreciation of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar and an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The potential loss in fair value, which would principally be recognized in Other Comprehensive Income, resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $837 million and $639 million for 2011 and 2010, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 50 basis points decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2011 2010 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 9,108 $ 7,700 Excess of fair value over carrying value 842 870 Market risk 333 289 The increase in fair value of long term debt in 2011 resulted principally from the issuance of $1.5 billion of 18 month floating rate notes in February 2011. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Operating profit by segment is as follows: 2011 2010 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing and Origination $ 1,013 $ 818 $ 195 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel and Other 329 291 38 Asia 182 291 (109 ) Total Oilseeds Processing 1,524 1,400 124 Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 320 529 (209 ) Bioproducts 742 193 549 Total Corn Processing 1,062 722 340 Agricultural Services Merchandising and Handling 818 583 235 Transportation 104 85 19 Total Agricultural Services 922 668 254 Other Processing 474 403 71 Financial 39 46 (7 ) Total Other 513 449 64 Total Segment Operating Profit 4,021 3,239 782 Corporate (see below) (1,006 ) (654 ) (352 ) Earnings Before Income Taxes $ 3,015 $ 2,585 $ 430 Corporate results are as follows: 2011 2010 Change (In millions) LIFO credit (charge) $ (368 ) $ 42 $ (410 ) Unallocated interest expense net (335 ) (283 ) (52 ) Unallocated corporate costs (326 ) (266 ) (60 ) Charges on early extinguishment of debt (8 ) (75 ) 67 Gains (losses) on interest rate swaps 30 (59 ) 89 Other 1 (13 ) 14 Total Corporate $ (1,006 ) $ (654 ) $ (352 ) Oilseeds Processing operating profit increased 9% to $1.5 billion. Crushing and origination results increased $195 million to $1.0 billion, which include the $71 million gain on the revaluation of the Companys equity interest in Golden Peanut as a result of the acquisition of the remaining 50% interest. Improved North American crushing results, particularly for cotton seed and canola, were partially offset by lower crushing margins in South America and Europe. Margins globally were enhanced by good positioning and by improved origination results. In South America, fertilizer results improved due to higher margins and volumes. Refining, packaging, biodiesel and other results increased $38 million to $329 million due principally to higher packaged oils margins and improved North American and European biodiesel results. Asia results decreased $109 million due principally to decreased earnings from the Companys equity investee, Wilmar. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Corn Processing operating profit increased 47% to $1.1 billion, which includes favorable impacts from ownership positions, which were allocated to sweeteners and starches and bioproducts based on total grind. Sweeteners and starches operating profit decreased $209 million to $320 million due to higher net corn costs partially offset by higher sales volumes. Sales volumes increased due to U.S. export shipments of sweeteners and improved U.S. demand for industrial starches. Bioproducts operating profit improved $549 million primarily due to higher ethanol sales volumes and higher average selling prices leading to increased ethanol and lysine margins. Bioproducts margins were also enhanced by favorable corn ownership positions. Bioproducts results included startup costs related to the Companys new plants of $94 million in the current year compared to $107 million in the prior year. Agricultural Services operating profit increased 38% to $922 million. Merchandising and handling results increased due to higher corn and wheat sales volumes and higher margins. A large 2010 U.S. harvest combined with strong international demand resulted in higher U.S. export shipments. Merchandising and handling results this year include an insurance recovery of $67 million related to property damage and business interruption resulting from an October 2008 explosion at the Companys Destrehan, Louisiana export facility. International merchandising results were weaker in part due to positions impacted by unexpected shifts in crop supply caused by weather conditions and government actions in the Black Sea region. Transportation results increased $19 million to $104 million primarily due to higher barge freight rates and higher barge utilization levels, in part due to higher U.S. export volumes. Other operating profit increased 14% to $513 million. Other processing operating results improved in the Companys wheat milling and cocoa business units due principally to increased equity earnings from the Companys equity investee, Gruma, which include a $78 million gain related to the disposal of Gruma assets. Other financial operating profit decreased $7 million primarily due to higher captive insurance loss provisions principally related to a $67 million loss related to the Companys Destrehan, Louisiana export facility insurance claim. Corporate results decreased $352 million primarily due to the negative impact from changing LIFO inventory valuations and higher unallocated interest expense net. The effects of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory reserves resulted in charges of $368 million compared to credits of $42 million for the prior year. Corporate unallocated interest expense increased $52 million mostly due to lower capitalization of interest costs for construction projects in progress. Partially offsetting the higher LIFO and unallocated interest costs were $30 million of gains on interest rate swaps compared to prior year losses on interest rate swaps of $59 million. In addition, the prior year included charges of $75 million on early debt extinguishment compared to $8 million of similar charges in the current year. 2010 Compared to 2009 As an agricultural commodity based business, the Company is subject to a variety of market factors which affect the Companys operating results. Market expectations throughout most of fiscal 2010 for fewer global crop supply and demand imbalances, coupled with continuing uncertainty about short term demand, led to generally lower and less volatile agricultural commodity market prices and conditions. In addition, the late, extended U.S. harvest reduced profit opportunities. North American oilseed exports and U.S. crushing volumes were enhanced in 2010 by the poor supply of 2009 crop year soybeans in South America. Increased government mandates for the use of biodiesel in South America and Europe resulted in increased biodiesel demand and helped keep overall demand for refined and crude vegetable oil steady in these regions. However, in North America, demand for vegetable oils remained weak in 2010 due to low consumption of oils in the food service and biodiesel industries, in part due to the expiration of the biodiesel blending credit in the U.S. on January 1, 2010. Soybean protein meal demand improved, particularly in Asia. Market prices for corn decreased in 2010 resulting in lower raw material costs for corn processing and decreased average selling prices for sweeteners and starches. Lower energy, fuel and chemical costs per unit positively impacted the Companys manufacturing costs. More favorable ethanol blending economics together with increased ethanol merchandising activity resulted in increased demand, higher ethanol sales volumes, and improved margins. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Earnings before income taxes for 2010 include a credit of $42 million from the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations, compared to a credit of $517 million in 2009. Income taxes decreased $146 million due to a lower effective income tax rate, partially offset by higher pretax earnings. Income taxes for 2009 included a $158 million charge resulting from the restructuring of a holding company in which the Company holds a portion of its equity investment in Wilmar. Analysis of Statements of Earnings Net sales and other operating income by segment for 2010 and 2009 have been reclassified to conform to the current years presentation resulting in reclassified net sales and other operating income at the segment level with no impact to total net sales and other operating income or operating profit. Net sales and other operating income by segment are as follows: 2010 2009 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing and Origination $ 14,487 $ 15,013 $ (526 ) Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel and Other 7,133 8,756 (1,623 ) Asia 190 179 11 Total Oilseeds Processing 21,810 23,948 (2,138 ) Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 3,264 3,690 (426 ) Bioproducts 4,610 3,938 672 Total Corn Processing 7,874 7,628 246 Agricultural Services Merchandising and Handling 26,589 32,007 (5,418 ) Transportation 167 242 (75 ) Total Agricultural Services 26,756 32,249 (5,493 ) Other Processing 5,147 5,272 (125 ) Financial 95 110 (15 ) Total Other 5,242 5,382 (140 ) Total $ 61,682 $ 69,207 $ (7,525 ) Net sales and other operating income decreased 11% to $61.7 billion due principally to lower average selling prices in 2010 in line with year over year declines in underlying commodity costs. Oilseeds Processing sales decreased 9% to $21.8 billion, due principally to lower average selling prices for soybeans, protein meal, refined oil, and biodiesel partially offset by increased sales volumes of soybeans and fertilizer. Corn Processing sales increased 3% to $7.9 billion primarily as a result of increased sales volumes of ethanol and lysine partially offset by lower average selling prices of ethanol, sweeteners, and starches. Agricultural Services sales decreased 17% to $26.8 billion, due to lower average selling prices, in line with year over year declines in underlying commodity prices and lower sales volumes. Other sales decreased 3% to $5.2 billion, primarily due to lower average selling prices of wheat flour partially offset by increased wheat flour sales volumes and higher average selling prices and sales volumes for cocoa products. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Cost of products sold decreased 11% to $57.8 billion, due principally to decreased agricultural commodity costs including the impact of changes in LIFO inventory valuations which reduced cost of products sold by $42 million in 2010 compared to $517 million in 2009. Manufacturing expenses decreased 1% or $60 million, primarily due to lower energy, chemical and fuel costs partially offset by higher employee related costs and a $124 million increase in depreciation and amortization expense. In 2010, manufacturing expenses included additional costs associated with the Companys new greenfield plants. Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased 1% to $1.4 billion, due principally to decreased provisions for doubtful accounts partially offset by increased expenses for legal, professional, and commercial services. Equity earnings of unconsolidated affiliates increased $416 million to $561 million primarily due to the absence of a non cash charge of $275 million in 2009 related to currency derivative losses of the Companys equity investee, Gruma S.A.B. de C.V. Interest income declined $55 million to $126 million primarily due to lower average interest rates. Interest expense declined $47 million to $422 million primarily due to lower average interest rates. Other expense net increased $91 million due to pre tax charges of $75 million related to the early extinguishment of debt and $59 million for unrealized losses on interest rate swaps (for more information on the charges related to the early extinguishment of debt, see Note 8 in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data). Income taxes decreased $146 million due to a lower effective income tax rate partially offset by higher pretax earnings. The Companys effective income tax rate during 2010 was 25.8%. In 2009, the effective income tax rate was 32.5% which included $158 million of income tax charges related to the partial restructuring of the holding company structure through which the Company holds a portion of its equity investment in Wilmar. Excluding these Wilmar charges, the Companys effective income tax rate for 2009 was 26.2%. For more information concerning Wilmar tax matters see Note 13 in Item 8. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Operating profit by segment is as follows: 2010 2009 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing and Origination $ 818 $ 767 $ 51 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel and Other 291 265 26 Asia 291 248 43 Total Oilseeds Processing 1,400 1,280 120 Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 529 500 29 Bioproducts 193 (315 ) 508 Total Corn Processing 722 185 537 Agricultural Services Merchandising and Handling 583 832 (249 ) Transportation 85 162 (77 ) Total Agricultural Services 668 994 (326 ) Other Processing 403 51 352 Financial 46 (57 ) 103 Total Other 449 (6 ) 455 Total Segment Operating Profit 3,239 2,453 786 Corporate (see below) (654 ) 47 (701 ) Earnings Before Income Taxes $ 2,585 $ 2,500 $ 85 Corporate results are as follows: 2010 2009 Change (In millions) LIFO credit $ 42 $ 517 $ (475 ) Unallocated interest expense net (283 ) (192 ) (91 ) Unallocated corporate costs (266 ) (252 ) (14 ) Charges on early extinguishment of debt (75 ) (75 ) Unrealized losses on interest rate swaps (59 ) (59 ) Other (13 ) (26 ) 13 Total Corporate $ (654 ) $ 47 $ (701 ) Oilseeds Processing operating profit increased 9% to $1.4 billion. Crushing and origination results increased $51 million due to higher North American soybean crushing margins and favorable soft seed commodity positioning, partially offset by lower soybean crushing margins in Europe and South America. Refining, packaging, biodiesel and other operating profit increased $26 million due primarily to higher South American biodiesel results and improved margins in Europe. Oilseeds processing results in Asia increased $43 million to $291 million due principally to improved equity earnings of Wilmar. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Corn Processing operating profit increased $537 million to $722 million. Bioproducts operating profit increased $508 million due to improved ethanol and lysine sales volumes and improved ethanol margins resulting from lower net corn costs and decreased manufacturing costs. Ethanol sales volumes increased due to favorable gasoline blending economics and increased merchandising activity. Sweeteners and starches operating profit increased $29 million due to lower net corn and manufacturing costs due principally to lower energy and chemical prices. These lower manufacturing costs were partially offset by lower average selling prices. Agricultural Services operating profit decreased $326 million to $668 million. Merchandising and handling results decreased $249 million. Enhanced volume and margin opportunities created by 2009s volatile commodity markets and tight credit markets did not recur. Volumes and margins in 2010 benefited from strong demand for U.S. soybean exports following the short South American 2009 crop. Transportation results decreased $77 million due to lower barge freight rates and decreased barge utilization levels resulting from weaker U.S. economic conditions and the late, extended North American harvest. Other operating profit increased $455 million to $449 million. Other processing operating profit increased $352 million due to improved equity earnings from the Companys investment in Gruma, improved wheat milling margins, and improved cocoa processing results. Financial operating profit increased $103 million due primarily to the absence of losses experienced in 2009 from managed fund investments and captive insurance operations. Corporate results decreased $701 million. The effects of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations resulted in a credit of $42 million for the year ended June 30, 2010, compared to a credit of $517 million for the year ended June 30, 2009. Unallocated interest expense net increased $91 million reflecting a reduction in corporate interest income caused by lower short term interest rates and lower working capital requirements of the operating segments. In March 2010, the Company repurchased $500 million of long term debt which generated a $75 million pretax charge on early extinguishment of debt. In connection with a debt remarketing planned for 2011, the Company entered into interest rate swaps to fix the interest rate on a portion of the planned remarketing which resulted in $59 million of unrealized losses on interest rate swaps. Liquidity and Capital Resources A Company objective is to have sufficient liquidity, balance sheet strength, and financial flexibility to fund the operating and capital requirements of a capital intensive agricultural commodity based business. The primary source of funds to finance the Companys operations and capital expenditures is cash generated by operations. In addition, the Company maintains a commercial paper borrowing facility and has access to equity and debt capital from public and private sources in both U.S. and international markets. At June 30, 2011, the Company had $1.4 billion of cash, cash equivalents, and short term marketable securities and a current ratio, defined as current assets divided by current liabilities, of 2.1 to 1. Included in working capital is $7.1 billion of readily marketable commodity inventories. Cash used in operating activities was $2.3 billion for the year compared to cash provided by operating activities of $2.7 billion last year. Working capital increased in the current year due principally to higher agricultural commodity market prices. Cash used in investing activities of $1.7 billion, principally for capital expenditures, businesses acquired, and investments, was in line with last year. Cash provided by financing activities was $3.6 billion for the year compared to cash used in financing activities of $1.0 billion last year. Net borrowings increased primarily to fund higher working capital. Short term borrowings increased due principally to higher commercial paper borrowings, and long term borrowings increased primarily as a result of the issuance of $1.5 billion of 18 month floating rate notes in February 2011. In addition, the Company issued common stock and received $1.75 billion under the forward stock purchase component of the Companys Equity Units (see Note 8 in Item 8). At June 30, 2011, the Companys capital resources included net worth of $18.8 billion and lines of credit totaling $6.9 billion, of which $5.7 billion was unused. The Companys ratio of long term debt to total capital (the sum of the Companys long term debt and shareholders equity) was 30% at June 30, 2011 and 32% at June 30, 2010. This ratio is a measure of the Companys long term indebtedness and is an indicator of financial flexibility. Of the Companys total lines of credit, $4.6 billion support a commercial paper borrowing facility, against which there were $620 million of commercial paper outstanding at June 30, 2011. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) The Company has outstanding $1.15 billion principal amount of convertible senior notes. As of June 30, 2011, none of the conditions permitting conversion of these notes had been satisfied. The Company has purchased call options and warrants intended to reduce the potential shareholder dilution upon future conversion of the notes. As of June 30, 2011, the market price of the Companys common stock was not greater than the exercise price of the purchased call options or warrants related to the convertible senior notes. On July 1, 2011, the Company entered into a 364 day accounts receivable securitization facility. The facility provides the Company with up to $1.0 billion in liquidity. Under the facility, the Companys U.S. originated trade accounts receivable are sold to a wholly owned bankruptcy remote entity which then sells an undivided interest in the receivable as a collateral for any borrowings under the facility. Any borrowings under the facility will be recorded as secured borrowings. As of August 24, 2011, the Company had not used the facility. This facility expands the Companys access to liquidity through efficient use of its balance sheet assets. The Companys credit facilities and certain debentures require the Company to comply with specified financial and non financial covenants including maintenance of minimum tangible net worth as well as limitations related to incurring liens, secured debt, and certain other financing arrangements. The Company is in compliance with these covenants as of June 30, 2011. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements In the normal course of business, the Company enters into contracts and commitments which obligate the Company to make payments in the future. The following table sets forth the Companys significant future obligations by time period. Purchases include commodity based contracts entered into in the normal course of business, which are further described in Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, energy related purchase contracts entered into in the normal course of business, and other purchase obligations related to the Companys normal business activities. The following table does not include unrecognized income tax benefits of $79 million as of June 30, 2011 as the Company is unable to reasonably estimate the timing of settlement. Where applicable, information included in the Companys consolidated financial statements and notes is cross referenced in this table. Payments Due by Period Contractual Item 8 Note Less than 1 3 3 5 More than Obligations Reference Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years (In millions) Purchases Inventories $ 17,457 $ 16,593 $ 807 $ 43 $ 14 Energy 456 340 76 22 18 Other 398 168 186 35 9 Total purchases 18,311 17,101 1,069 100 41 Short term debt 1,875 1,875 Long term debt Note 8 8,444 178 2,875 46 5,345 Estimated interest payments 7,177 384 690 646 5,457 Operating leases Note 14 1,163 233 334 225 371 Estimated pension and other postretirement plan contributions (1) Note 15 167 55 19 21 72 Total $ 37,137 $ 19,826 $ 4,987 $ 1,038 $ 11,286 (1) Includes pension contributions of $47 million for fiscal 2012. The Company is unable to estimate the amount of pension contributions beyond fiscal year 2012. For more information concerning the Companys pension and other postretirement plans, see Note 15 in Item 8. At June 30, 2011, the Company estimates it will spend approximately $2.8 billion through calendar year 2014 to complete currently approved capital projects which are not included in the table above. The Company also has outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds of $620 million at June 30, 2011. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) In addition, the Company has entered into agreements, primarily debt guarantee agreements related to equity method investees, which could obligate the Company to make future payments. The Companys liability under these agreements arises only if the primary entity fails to perform its contractual obligation. The Company has collateral for a portion of these contingent obligations. At June 30, 2011, these contingent obligations totaled approximately $121 million. Amounts outstanding for the primary entity under these contingent obligations were $69 million at June 30, 2011. Critical Accounting Policies The process of preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the carrying values of the Companys assets and liabilities as well as the recognition of revenues and expenses. These estimates and judgments are based on the Companys historical experience and managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Certain of the Companys accounting policies are considered critical, as these policies are important to the depiction of the Companys financial statements and require significant or complex judgment by management. Management has discussed with the Companys Audit Committee the development, selection, disclosure, and application of these critical accounting policies. Following are the accounting policies management considers critical to the Companys financial statements. Inventories and Derivatives Certain of the Companys merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, forward fixed price purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts are valued at estimated market values. These merchandisable agricultural commodities are freely traded, have quoted market prices, and may be sold without significant additional processing. Management estimates market value based on exchange quoted prices, adjusted for differences in local markets. Changes in the market values of these inventories and contracts are recognized in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. If management used different methods or factors to estimate market value, amounts reported as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. Additionally, if market conditions change subsequent to year end, amounts reported in future periods as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. The Company, from time to time, uses derivative contracts designated as cash flow hedges to fix the purchase price of anticipated volumes of commodities to be purchased and processed in a future month, to fix the purchase price of the Companys anticipated natural gas requirements for certain production facilities, and to fix the sales price of anticipated volumes of ethanol. The change in the market value of such derivative contracts has historically been, and is expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold and net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. If it is determined that the derivative instruments used are no longer effective at offsetting changes in the price of the hedged item, then the changes in the market value of these exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts would be recorded in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. See Note 4 in Item 8 for additional information. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Employee Benefit Plans The Company provides substantially all U.S. employees and employees at certain international subsidiaries with pension benefits. Eligible U.S. employees with five or more years of service prior to January 1, 2009 participate in a defined benefit pension plan. Eligible U.S. employees hired on or after January 1, 2009 (and eligible salaried employees with less than five years of service prior to January 1, 2009) participate in a cash balance pension formula. The Company provides eligible U.S. employees who retire under qualifying conditions with access to postretirement health care, at full cost to the retiree (certain employees are grandfathered into subsidized coverage). In order to measure the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans, management makes several estimates and assumptions, including interest rates used to discount certain liabilities, rates of return on assets set aside to fund these plans, rates of compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and anticipated future health care costs. These estimates and assumptions are based on the Companys historical experience combined with managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Management also uses third party actuaries to assist in measuring the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans. If management used different estimates and assumptions regarding these plans, the funded status of the plans could vary significantly, and the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. See Note 15 in Item 8 for additional information. Income Taxes The Company frequently faces challenges from U.S. and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company records reserves for estimates of potential additional tax owed by the Company. As an example, a subsidiary of the Company received tax assessments in the amount of $665 million consisting of tax, penalty, and interest (adjusted for interest and variation in currency exchange rates) from the Brazilian Federal Revenue Service challenging the deductibility of commodity hedging losses incurred by the Company for tax years 2004, 2006 and 2007. The Company evaluated its tax position regarding these hedging transactions and concluded, based in part upon advice from Brazilian legal counsel, that it was appropriate to recognize the tax benefits of these deductions (See Note 13 in Item 8 for additional information). Deferred tax assets represent items to be used as tax deductions or credits in future tax returns, and the related tax benefit has already been recognized in the Companys income statement. The realization of the Companys deferred tax assets is dependent upon future taxable income in specific tax jurisdictions, the timing and amount of which are uncertain. The Company evaluates all available positive and negative evidence including estimated future reversals of existing temporary differences, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies, and recent financial results. Valuation allowances related to these deferred tax assets have been established to the extent the realization of the tax benefit is not likely. To the extent the Company were to favorably resolve matters for which accruals have been established or be required to pay amounts in excess of the aforementioned reserves, the Companys effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be impacted. Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and the Companys share of the undistributed earnings of affiliated corporate joint venture companies accounted for on the equity method amounting to approximately $8.2 billion at June 30, 2011, are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned factors may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and cash flows of the Companys assets in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its factories. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment, technology, and companies related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. Assets are written down after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these assets, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Goodwill and other intangible assets The Company accounts for its goodwill and other intangible assets in accordance with ASC Topic 350, Intangibles Goodwill and Other. Under this standard, goodwill and intangible assets deemed to have indefinite lives are not amortized but are subject to annual impairment tests. The Company evaluates goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year or whenever there are indicators that the carrying value of the assets may not be fully recoverable. Definite lived intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its impairment tests, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Valuation of Marketable Securities and Investments in Affiliates The Company classifies the majority of its marketable securities as available for sale and carries these securities at fair value. The Company applies the equity method for investments over which the Company has the ability to exercise significant influence. These investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings and are adjusted, where appropriate, for amortizable basis differences between the investment balance and the underlying net assets of the investee. For publicly traded securities, the fair value of the Companys investments is readily available based on quoted market prices. For non publicly traded securities, managements assessment of fair value is based on valuation methodologies including discounted cash flows and estimates of sales proceeds. In the event of a decline in fair value of an investment below carrying value, management is required to determine if the decline in fair value is other than temporary. In evaluating the nature of a decline in the fair value of an investment, management considers the market conditions, trends of earnings, discounted cash flows, trading volumes, and other key measures of the investment as well as the Companys ability and intent to hold the investment. When such a decline in value is deemed to be other than temporary, an impairment loss is recognized in the current period operating results to the extent of the decline. See Notes 5 and 6 in Item 8 for information regarding the Companys marketable securities and investments in affiliates. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these marketable securities, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in: commodity market prices as they relate to the Companys net commodity position, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and prices of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to factors such as changes in weather conditions, disease, plantings, government programs and policies, competition, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. The Company enters into derivative and non derivative contracts with the primary objective of managing the Companys exposure to adverse price movements in the agricultural commodities used for, and produced in, our business operations. The Company will also use exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the volatility of the relationship between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contracts defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company, from time to time, enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold or net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. The Companys commodity position consists of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, related purchase and sales contracts, energy and freight contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts including contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements, net of sales. The fair value of the Companys commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing all of the commodity positions at quoted market prices for the period, where available, or utilizing a close proxy. The Company has established metrics to monitor the amount of market risk exposure, which consist of volumetric limits, and value at risk (VaR) limits. VaR measures the potential loss, at a 95% confidence level, that could be incurred over a one year period. Volumetric limits are monitored daily and VaR calculations and sensitivity analysis are monitored weekly. In addition to measuring the hypothetical loss resulting from an adverse two standard deviation move in market prices (assuming no correlations) over a one year period using VaR, sensitivity analysis is performed measuring the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in market prices. The highest, lowest, and average weekly position for each of the last two years together with the market risk from a hypothetical 10% adverse price change is as follows: 2011 2010 Long/(Short) Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest position $ 2,388 $ 239 $ 738 $ 74 Lowest position 368 37 (183 ) (18 ) Average position 1,644 164 216 22 The change in fair value of the average position for 2011 compared to 2010 was principally the result of changes in average quantities underlying the weekly commodity position. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) Currencies The Company conducts its business in over 75 countries. For the majority of the Companys subsidiaries located outside the United States, the local currency is the functional currency. To reduce the risks associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, the Company enters into currency exchange contracts to minimize its foreign currency position related to transactions denominated primarily in Euro, British pound, Canadian dollar, and Brazilian real currencies. These currencies represent the major functional or local currencies in which recurring business transactions occur. The Company does not use currency exchange contracts as hedges against amounts permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The currency exchange contracts used are forward contracts, swaps with banks, exchange traded futures contracts, and over the counter options. The changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $8.2 billion at June 30, 2011, and $6.4 billion at June 30, 2010. This increase is due to the appreciation of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar and an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The potential loss in fair value, which would principally be recognized in Other Comprehensive Income, resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $837 million and $639 million for 2011 and 2010, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 50 basis points decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2011 2010 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 9,108 $ 7,700 Excess of fair value over carrying value 842 870 Market risk 333 289 The increase in fair value of long term debt in 2011 resulted principally from the issuance of $1.5 billion of 18 month floating rate notes in February 2011. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Corn Processing operating profit increased 47% to $1.1 billion, which includes favorable impacts from ownership positions, which were allocated to sweeteners and starches and bioproducts based on total grind. Sweeteners and starches operating profit decreased $209 million to $320 million due to higher net corn costs partially offset by higher sales volumes. Sales volumes increased due to U.S. export shipments of sweeteners and improved U.S. demand for industrial starches. Bioproducts operating profit improved $549 million primarily due to higher ethanol sales volumes and higher average selling prices leading to increased ethanol and lysine margins. Bioproducts margins were also enhanced by favorable corn ownership positions. Bioproducts results included startup costs related to the Companys new plants of $94 million in the current year compared to $107 million in the prior year. Agricultural Services operating profit increased 38% to $922 million. Merchandising and handling results increased due to higher corn and wheat sales volumes and higher margins. A large 2010 U.S. harvest combined with strong international demand resulted in higher U.S. export shipments. Merchandising and handling results this year include an insurance recovery of $67 million related to property damage and business interruption resulting from an October 2008 explosion at the Companys Destrehan, Louisiana export facility. International merchandising results were weaker in part due to positions impacted by unexpected shifts in crop supply caused by weather conditions and government actions in the Black Sea region. Transportation results increased $19 million to $104 million primarily due to higher barge freight rates and higher barge utilization levels, in part due to higher U.S. export volumes. Other operating profit increased 14% to $513 million. Other processing operating results improved in the Companys wheat milling and cocoa business units due principally to increased equity earnings from the Companys equity investee, Gruma, which include a $78 million gain related to the disposal of Gruma assets. Other financial operating profit decreased $7 million primarily due to higher captive insurance loss provisions principally related to a $67 million loss related to the Companys Destrehan, Louisiana export facility insurance claim. Corporate results decreased $352 million primarily due to the negative impact from changing LIFO inventory valuations and higher unallocated interest expense net. The effects of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory reserves resulted in charges of $368 million compared to credits of $42 million for the prior year. Corporate unallocated interest expense increased $52 million mostly due to lower capitalization of interest costs for construction projects in progress. Partially offsetting the higher LIFO and unallocated interest costs were $30 million of gains on interest rate swaps compared to prior year losses on interest rate swaps of $59 million. In addition, the prior year included charges of $75 million on early debt extinguishment compared to $8 million of similar charges in the current year. 2010 Compared to 2009 As an agricultural commodity based business, the Company is subject to a variety of market factors which affect the Companys operating results. Market expectations throughout most of fiscal 2010 for fewer global crop supply and demand imbalances, coupled with continuing uncertainty about short term demand, led to generally lower and less volatile agricultural commodity market prices and conditions. In addition, the late, extended U.S. harvest reduced profit opportunities. North American oilseed exports and U.S. crushing volumes were enhanced in 2010 by the poor supply of 2009 crop year soybeans in South America. Increased government mandates for the use of biodiesel in South America and Europe resulted in increased biodiesel demand and helped keep overall demand for refined and crude vegetable oil steady in these regions. However, in North America, demand for vegetable oils remained weak in 2010 due to low consumption of oils in the food service and biodiesel industries, in part due to the expiration of the biodiesel blending credit in the U.S. on January 1, 2010. Soybean protein meal demand improved, particularly in Asia. Market prices for corn decreased in 2010 resulting in lower raw material costs for corn processing and decreased average selling prices for sweeteners and starches. Lower energy, fuel and chemical costs per unit positively impacted the Companys manufacturing costs. More favorable ethanol blending economics together with increased ethanol merchandising activity resulted in increased demand, higher ethanol sales volumes, and improved margins. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Earnings before income taxes for 2010 include a credit of $42 million from the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations, compared to a credit of $517 million in 2009. Income taxes decreased $146 million due to a lower effective income tax rate, partially offset by higher pretax earnings. Income taxes for 2009 included a $158 million charge resulting from the restructuring of a holding company in which the Company holds a portion of its equity investment in Wilmar. Analysis of Statements of Earnings Net sales and other operating income by segment for 2010 and 2009 have been reclassified to conform to the current years presentation resulting in reclassified net sales and other operating income at the segment level with no impact to total net sales and other operating income or operating profit. Net sales and other operating income by segment are as follows: 2010 2009 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing and Origination $ 14,487 $ 15,013 $ (526 ) Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel and Other 7,133 8,756 (1,623 ) Asia 190 179 11 Total Oilseeds Processing 21,810 23,948 (2,138 ) Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 3,264 3,690 (426 ) Bioproducts 4,610 3,938 672 Total Corn Processing 7,874 7,628 246 Agricultural Services Merchandising and Handling 26,589 32,007 (5,418 ) Transportation 167 242 (75 ) Total Agricultural Services 26,756 32,249 (5,493 ) Other Processing 5,147 5,272 (125 ) Financial 95 110 (15 ) Total Other 5,242 5,382 (140 ) Total $ 61,682 $ 69,207 $ (7,525 ) Net sales and other operating income decreased 11% to $61.7 billion due principally to lower average selling prices in 2010 in line with year over year declines in underlying commodity costs. Oilseeds Processing sales decreased 9% to $21.8 billion, due principally to lower average selling prices for soybeans, protein meal, refined oil, and biodiesel partially offset by increased sales volumes of soybeans and fertilizer. Corn Processing sales increased 3% to $7.9 billion primarily as a result of increased sales volumes of ethanol and lysine partially offset by lower average selling prices of ethanol, sweeteners, and starches. Agricultural Services sales decreased 17% to $26.8 billion, due to lower average selling prices, in line with year over year declines in underlying commodity prices and lower sales volumes. Other sales decreased 3% to $5.2 billion, primarily due to lower average selling prices of wheat flour partially offset by increased wheat flour sales volumes and higher average selling prices and sales volumes for cocoa products. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Cost of products sold decreased 11% to $57.8 billion, due principally to decreased agricultural commodity costs including the impact of changes in LIFO inventory valuations which reduced cost of products sold by $42 million in 2010 compared to $517 million in 2009. Manufacturing expenses decreased 1% or $60 million, primarily due to lower energy, chemical and fuel costs partially offset by higher employee related costs and a $124 million increase in depreciation and amortization expense. In 2010, manufacturing expenses included additional costs associated with the Companys new greenfield plants. Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased 1% to $1.4 billion, due principally to decreased provisions for doubtful accounts partially offset by increased expenses for legal, professional, and commercial services. Equity earnings of unconsolidated affiliates increased $416 million to $561 million primarily due to the absence of a non cash charge of $275 million in 2009 related to currency derivative losses of the Companys equity investee, Gruma S.A.B. de C.V. Interest income declined $55 million to $126 million primarily due to lower average interest rates. Interest expense declined $47 million to $422 million primarily due to lower average interest rates. Other expense net increased $91 million due to pre tax charges of $75 million related to the early extinguishment of debt and $59 million for unrealized losses on interest rate swaps (for more information on the charges related to the early extinguishment of debt, see Note 8 in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data). Income taxes decreased $146 million due to a lower effective income tax rate partially offset by higher pretax earnings. The Companys effective income tax rate during 2010 was 25.8%. In 2009, the effective income tax rate was 32.5% which included $158 million of income tax charges related to the partial restructuring of the holding company structure through which the Company holds a portion of its equity investment in Wilmar. Excluding these Wilmar charges, the Companys effective income tax rate for 2009 was 26.2%. For more information concerning Wilmar tax matters see Note 13 in Item 8. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Operating profit by segment is as follows: 2010 2009 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing and Origination $ 818 $ 767 $ 51 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel and Other 291 265 26 Asia 291 248 43 Total Oilseeds Processing 1,400 1,280 120 Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 529 500 29 Bioproducts 193 (315 ) 508 Total Corn Processing 722 185 537 Agricultural Services Merchandising and Handling 583 832 (249 ) Transportation 85 162 (77 ) Total Agricultural Services 668 994 (326 ) Other Processing 403 51 352 Financial 46 (57 ) 103 Total Other 449 (6 ) 455 Total Segment Operating Profit 3,239 2,453 786 Corporate (see below) (654 ) 47 (701 ) Earnings Before Income Taxes $ 2,585 $ 2,500 $ 85 Corporate results are as follows: 2010 2009 Change (In millions) LIFO credit $ 42 $ 517 $ (475 ) Unallocated interest expense net (283 ) (192 ) (91 ) Unallocated corporate costs (266 ) (252 ) (14 ) Charges on early extinguishment of debt (75 ) (75 ) Unrealized losses on interest rate swaps (59 ) (59 ) Other (13 ) (26 ) 13 Total Corporate $ (654 ) $ 47 $ (701 ) Oilseeds Processing operating profit increased 9% to $1.4 billion. Crushing and origination results increased $51 million due to higher North American soybean crushing margins and favorable soft seed commodity positioning, partially offset by lower soybean crushing margins in Europe and South America. Refining, packaging, biodiesel and other operating profit increased $26 million due primarily to higher South American biodiesel results and improved margins in Europe. Oilseeds processing results in Asia increased $43 million to $291 million due principally to improved equity earnings of Wilmar. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Corn Processing operating profit increased $537 million to $722 million. Bioproducts operating profit increased $508 million due to improved ethanol and lysine sales volumes and improved ethanol margins resulting from lower net corn costs and decreased manufacturing costs. Ethanol sales volumes increased due to favorable gasoline blending economics and increased merchandising activity. Sweeteners and starches operating profit increased $29 million due to lower net corn and manufacturing costs due principally to lower energy and chemical prices. These lower manufacturing costs were partially offset by lower average selling prices. Agricultural Services operating profit decreased $326 million to $668 million. Merchandising and handling results decreased $249 million. Enhanced volume and margin opportunities created by 2009s volatile commodity markets and tight credit markets did not recur. Volumes and margins in 2010 benefited from strong demand for U.S. soybean exports following the short South American 2009 crop. Transportation results decreased $77 million due to lower barge freight rates and decreased barge utilization levels resulting from weaker U.S. economic conditions and the late, extended North American harvest. Other operating profit increased $455 million to $449 million. Other processing operating profit increased $352 million due to improved equity earnings from the Companys investment in Gruma, improved wheat milling margins, and improved cocoa processing results. Financial operating profit increased $103 million due primarily to the absence of losses experienced in 2009 from managed fund investments and captive insurance operations. Corporate results decreased $701 million. The effects of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations resulted in a credit of $42 million for the year ended June 30, 2010, compared to a credit of $517 million for the year ended June 30, 2009. Unallocated interest expense net increased $91 million reflecting a reduction in corporate interest income caused by lower short term interest rates and lower working capital requirements of the operating segments. In March 2010, the Company repurchased $500 million of long term debt which generated a $75 million pretax charge on early extinguishment of debt. In connection with a debt remarketing planned for 2011, the Company entered into interest rate swaps to fix the interest rate on a portion of the planned remarketing which resulted in $59 million of unrealized losses on interest rate swaps. Liquidity and Capital Resources A Company objective is to have sufficient liquidity, balance sheet strength, and financial flexibility to fund the operating and capital requirements of a capital intensive agricultural commodity based business. The primary source of funds to finance the Companys operations and capital expenditures is cash generated by operations. In addition, the Company maintains a commercial paper borrowing facility and has access to equity and debt capital from public and private sources in both U.S. and international markets. At June 30, 2011, the Company had $1.4 billion of cash, cash equivalents, and short term marketable securities and a current ratio, defined as current assets divided by current liabilities, of 2.1 to 1. Included in working capital is $7.1 billion of readily marketable commodity inventories. Cash used in operating activities was $2.3 billion for the year compared to cash provided by operating activities of $2.7 billion last year. Working capital increased in the current year due principally to higher agricultural commodity market prices. Cash used in investing activities of $1.7 billion, principally for capital expenditures, businesses acquired, and investments, was in line with last year. Cash provided by financing activities was $3.6 billion for the year compared to cash used in financing activities of $1.0 billion last year. Net borrowings increased primarily to fund higher working capital. Short term borrowings increased due principally to higher commercial paper borrowings, and long term borrowings increased primarily as a result of the issuance of $1.5 billion of 18 month floating rate notes in February 2011. In addition, the Company issued common stock and received $1.75 billion under the forward stock purchase component of the Companys Equity Units (see Note 8 in Item 8). At June 30, 2011, the Companys capital resources included net worth of $18.8 billion and lines of credit totaling $6.9 billion, of which $5.7 billion was unused. The Companys ratio of long term debt to total capital (the sum of the Companys long term debt and shareholders equity) was 30% at June 30, 2011 and 32% at June 30, 2010. This ratio is a measure of the Companys long term indebtedness and is an indicator of financial flexibility. Of the Companys total lines of credit, $4.6 billion support a commercial paper borrowing facility, against which there were $620 million of commercial paper outstanding at June 30, 2011. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) The Company has outstanding $1.15 billion principal amount of convertible senior notes. As of June 30, 2011, none of the conditions permitting conversion of these notes had been satisfied. The Company has purchased call options and warrants intended to reduce the potential shareholder dilution upon future conversion of the notes. As of June 30, 2011, the market price of the Companys common stock was not greater than the exercise price of the purchased call options or warrants related to the convertible senior notes. On July 1, 2011, the Company entered into a 364 day accounts receivable securitization facility. The facility provides the Company with up to $1.0 billion in liquidity. Under the facility, the Companys U.S. originated trade accounts receivable are sold to a wholly owned bankruptcy remote entity which then sells an undivided interest in the receivable as a collateral for any borrowings under the facility. Any borrowings under the facility will be recorded as secured borrowings. As of August 24, 2011, the Company had not used the facility. This facility expands the Companys access to liquidity through efficient use of its balance sheet assets. The Companys credit facilities and certain debentures require the Company to comply with specified financial and non financial covenants including maintenance of minimum tangible net worth as well as limitations related to incurring liens, secured debt, and certain other financing arrangements. The Company is in compliance with these covenants as of June 30, 2011. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements In the normal course of business, the Company enters into contracts and commitments which obligate the Company to make payments in the future. The following table sets forth the Companys significant future obligations by time period. Purchases include commodity based contracts entered into in the normal course of business, which are further described in Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, energy related purchase contracts entered into in the normal course of business, and other purchase obligations related to the Companys normal business activities. The following table does not include unrecognized income tax benefits of $79 million as of June 30, 2011 as the Company is unable to reasonably estimate the timing of settlement. Where applicable, information included in the Companys consolidated financial statements and notes is cross referenced in this table. Payments Due by Period Contractual Item 8 Note Less than 1 3 3 5 More than Obligations Reference Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years (In millions) Purchases Inventories $ 17,457 $ 16,593 $ 807 $ 43 $ 14 Energy 456 340 76 22 18 Other 398 168 186 35 9 Total purchases 18,311 17,101 1,069 100 41 Short term debt 1,875 1,875 Long term debt Note 8 8,444 178 2,875 46 5,345 Estimated interest payments 7,177 384 690 646 5,457 Operating leases Note 14 1,163 233 334 225 371 Estimated pension and other postretirement plan contributions (1) Note 15 167 55 19 21 72 Total $ 37,137 $ 19,826 $ 4,987 $ 1,038 $ 11,286 (1) Includes pension contributions of $47 million for fiscal 2012. The Company is unable to estimate the amount of pension contributions beyond fiscal year 2012. For more information concerning the Companys pension and other postretirement plans, see Note 15 in Item 8. At June 30, 2011, the Company estimates it will spend approximately $2.8 billion through calendar year 2014 to complete currently approved capital projects which are not included in the table above. The Company also has outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds of $620 million at June 30, 2011. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) In addition, the Company has entered into agreements, primarily debt guarantee agreements related to equity method investees, which could obligate the Company to make future payments. The Companys liability under these agreements arises only if the primary entity fails to perform its contractual obligation. The Company has collateral for a portion of these contingent obligations. At June 30, 2011, these contingent obligations totaled approximately $121 million. Amounts outstanding for the primary entity under these contingent obligations were $69 million at June 30, 2011. Critical Accounting Policies The process of preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the carrying values of the Companys assets and liabilities as well as the recognition of revenues and expenses. These estimates and judgments are based on the Companys historical experience and managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Certain of the Companys accounting policies are considered critical, as these policies are important to the depiction of the Companys financial statements and require significant or complex judgment by management. Management has discussed with the Companys Audit Committee the development, selection, disclosure, and application of these critical accounting policies. Following are the accounting policies management considers critical to the Companys financial statements. Inventories and Derivatives Certain of the Companys merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, forward fixed price purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts are valued at estimated market values. These merchandisable agricultural commodities are freely traded, have quoted market prices, and may be sold without significant additional processing. Management estimates market value based on exchange quoted prices, adjusted for differences in local markets. Changes in the market values of these inventories and contracts are recognized in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. If management used different methods or factors to estimate market value, amounts reported as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. Additionally, if market conditions change subsequent to year end, amounts reported in future periods as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. The Company, from time to time, uses derivative contracts designated as cash flow hedges to fix the purchase price of anticipated volumes of commodities to be purchased and processed in a future month, to fix the purchase price of the Companys anticipated natural gas requirements for certain production facilities, and to fix the sales price of anticipated volumes of ethanol. The change in the market value of such derivative contracts has historically been, and is expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold and net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. If it is determined that the derivative instruments used are no longer effective at offsetting changes in the price of the hedged item, then the changes in the market value of these exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts would be recorded in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. See Note 4 in Item 8 for additional information. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Employee Benefit Plans The Company provides substantially all U.S. employees and employees at certain international subsidiaries with pension benefits. Eligible U.S. employees with five or more years of service prior to January 1, 2009 participate in a defined benefit pension plan. Eligible U.S. employees hired on or after January 1, 2009 (and eligible salaried employees with less than five years of service prior to January 1, 2009) participate in a cash balance pension formula. The Company provides eligible U.S. employees who retire under qualifying conditions with access to postretirement health care, at full cost to the retiree (certain employees are grandfathered into subsidized coverage). In order to measure the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans, management makes several estimates and assumptions, including interest rates used to discount certain liabilities, rates of return on assets set aside to fund these plans, rates of compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and anticipated future health care costs. These estimates and assumptions are based on the Companys historical experience combined with managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Management also uses third party actuaries to assist in measuring the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans. If management used different estimates and assumptions regarding these plans, the funded status of the plans could vary significantly, and the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. See Note 15 in Item 8 for additional information. Income Taxes The Company frequently faces challenges from U.S. and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company records reserves for estimates of potential additional tax owed by the Company. As an example, a subsidiary of the Company received tax assessments in the amount of $665 million consisting of tax, penalty, and interest (adjusted for interest and variation in currency exchange rates) from the Brazilian Federal Revenue Service challenging the deductibility of commodity hedging losses incurred by the Company for tax years 2004, 2006 and 2007. The Company evaluated its tax position regarding these hedging transactions and concluded, based in part upon advice from Brazilian legal counsel, that it was appropriate to recognize the tax benefits of these deductions (See Note 13 in Item 8 for additional information). Deferred tax assets represent items to be used as tax deductions or credits in future tax returns, and the related tax benefit has already been recognized in the Companys income statement. The realization of the Companys deferred tax assets is dependent upon future taxable income in specific tax jurisdictions, the timing and amount of which are uncertain. The Company evaluates all available positive and negative evidence including estimated future reversals of existing temporary differences, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies, and recent financial results. Valuation allowances related to these deferred tax assets have been established to the extent the realization of the tax benefit is not likely. To the extent the Company were to favorably resolve matters for which accruals have been established or be required to pay amounts in excess of the aforementioned reserves, the Companys effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be impacted. Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and the Companys share of the undistributed earnings of affiliated corporate joint venture companies accounted for on the equity method amounting to approximately $8.2 billion at June 30, 2011, are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned factors may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and cash flows of the Companys assets in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its factories. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment, technology, and companies related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. Assets are written down after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these assets, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Goodwill and other intangible assets The Company accounts for its goodwill and other intangible assets in accordance with ASC Topic 350, Intangibles Goodwill and Other. Under this standard, goodwill and intangible assets deemed to have indefinite lives are not amortized but are subject to annual impairment tests. The Company evaluates goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year or whenever there are indicators that the carrying value of the assets may not be fully recoverable. Definite lived intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its impairment tests, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Valuation of Marketable Securities and Investments in Affiliates The Company classifies the majority of its marketable securities as available for sale and carries these securities at fair value. The Company applies the equity method for investments over which the Company has the ability to exercise significant influence. These investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings and are adjusted, where appropriate, for amortizable basis differences between the investment balance and the underlying net assets of the investee. For publicly traded securities, the fair value of the Companys investments is readily available based on quoted market prices. For non publicly traded securities, managements assessment of fair value is based on valuation methodologies including discounted cash flows and estimates of sales proceeds. In the event of a decline in fair value of an investment below carrying value, management is required to determine if the decline in fair value is other than temporary. In evaluating the nature of a decline in the fair value of an investment, management considers the market conditions, trends of earnings, discounted cash flows, trading volumes, and other key measures of the investment as well as the Companys ability and intent to hold the investment. When such a decline in value is deemed to be other than temporary, an impairment loss is recognized in the current period operating results to the extent of the decline. See Notes 5 and 6 in Item 8 for information regarding the Companys marketable securities and investments in affiliates. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these marketable securities, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in: commodity market prices as they relate to the Companys net commodity position, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and prices of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to factors such as changes in weather conditions, disease, plantings, government programs and policies, competition, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. The Company enters into derivative and non derivative contracts with the primary objective of managing the Companys exposure to adverse price movements in the agricultural commodities used for, and produced in, our business operations. The Company will also use exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the volatility of the relationship between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contracts defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company, from time to time, enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold or net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. The Companys commodity position consists of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, related purchase and sales contracts, energy and freight contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts including contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements, net of sales. The fair value of the Companys commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing all of the commodity positions at quoted market prices for the period, where available, or utilizing a close proxy. The Company has established metrics to monitor the amount of market risk exposure, which consist of volumetric limits, and value at risk (VaR) limits. VaR measures the potential loss, at a 95% confidence level, that could be incurred over a one year period. Volumetric limits are monitored daily and VaR calculations and sensitivity analysis are monitored weekly. In addition to measuring the hypothetical loss resulting from an adverse two standard deviation move in market prices (assuming no correlations) over a one year period using VaR, sensitivity analysis is performed measuring the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in market prices. The highest, lowest, and average weekly position for each of the last two years together with the market risk from a hypothetical 10% adverse price change is as follows: 2011 2010 Long/(Short) Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest position $ 2,388 $ 239 $ 738 $ 74 Lowest position 368 37 (183 ) (18 ) Average position 1,644 164 216 22 The change in fair value of the average position for 2011 compared to 2010 was principally the result of changes in average quantities underlying the weekly commodity position. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) Currencies The Company conducts its business in over 75 countries. For the majority of the Companys subsidiaries located outside the United States, the local currency is the functional currency. To reduce the risks associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, the Company enters into currency exchange contracts to minimize its foreign currency position related to transactions denominated primarily in Euro, British pound, Canadian dollar, and Brazilian real currencies. These currencies represent the major functional or local currencies in which recurring business transactions occur. The Company does not use currency exchange contracts as hedges against amounts permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The currency exchange contracts used are forward contracts, swaps with banks, exchange traded futures contracts, and over the counter options. The changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $8.2 billion at June 30, 2011, and $6.4 billion at June 30, 2010. This increase is due to the appreciation of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar and an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The potential loss in fair value, which would principally be recognized in Other Comprehensive Income, resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $837 million and $639 million for 2011 and 2010, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 50 basis points decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2011 2010 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 9,108 $ 7,700 Excess of fair value over carrying value 842 870 Market risk 333 289 The increase in fair value of long term debt in 2011 resulted principally from the issuance of $1.5 billion of 18 month floating rate notes in February 2011. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Earnings before income taxes for 2010 include a credit of $42 million from the effect of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations, compared to a credit of $517 million in 2009. Income taxes decreased $146 million due to a lower effective income tax rate, partially offset by higher pretax earnings. Income taxes for 2009 included a $158 million charge resulting from the restructuring of a holding company in which the Company holds a portion of its equity investment in Wilmar. Analysis of Statements of Earnings Net sales and other operating income by segment for 2010 and 2009 have been reclassified to conform to the current years presentation resulting in reclassified net sales and other operating income at the segment level with no impact to total net sales and other operating income or operating profit. Net sales and other operating income by segment are as follows: 2010 2009 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing and Origination $ 14,487 $ 15,013 $ (526 ) Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel and Other 7,133 8,756 (1,623 ) Asia 190 179 11 Total Oilseeds Processing 21,810 23,948 (2,138 ) Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 3,264 3,690 (426 ) Bioproducts 4,610 3,938 672 Total Corn Processing 7,874 7,628 246 Agricultural Services Merchandising and Handling 26,589 32,007 (5,418 ) Transportation 167 242 (75 ) Total Agricultural Services 26,756 32,249 (5,493 ) Other Processing 5,147 5,272 (125 ) Financial 95 110 (15 ) Total Other 5,242 5,382 (140 ) Total $ 61,682 $ 69,207 $ (7,525 ) Net sales and other operating income decreased 11% to $61.7 billion due principally to lower average selling prices in 2010 in line with year over year declines in underlying commodity costs. Oilseeds Processing sales decreased 9% to $21.8 billion, due principally to lower average selling prices for soybeans, protein meal, refined oil, and biodiesel partially offset by increased sales volumes of soybeans and fertilizer. Corn Processing sales increased 3% to $7.9 billion primarily as a result of increased sales volumes of ethanol and lysine partially offset by lower average selling prices of ethanol, sweeteners, and starches. Agricultural Services sales decreased 17% to $26.8 billion, due to lower average selling prices, in line with year over year declines in underlying commodity prices and lower sales volumes. Other sales decreased 3% to $5.2 billion, primarily due to lower average selling prices of wheat flour partially offset by increased wheat flour sales volumes and higher average selling prices and sales volumes for cocoa products. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Cost of products sold decreased 11% to $57.8 billion, due principally to decreased agricultural commodity costs including the impact of changes in LIFO inventory valuations which reduced cost of products sold by $42 million in 2010 compared to $517 million in 2009. Manufacturing expenses decreased 1% or $60 million, primarily due to lower energy, chemical and fuel costs partially offset by higher employee related costs and a $124 million increase in depreciation and amortization expense. In 2010, manufacturing expenses included additional costs associated with the Companys new greenfield plants. Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased 1% to $1.4 billion, due principally to decreased provisions for doubtful accounts partially offset by increased expenses for legal, professional, and commercial services. Equity earnings of unconsolidated affiliates increased $416 million to $561 million primarily due to the absence of a non cash charge of $275 million in 2009 related to currency derivative losses of the Companys equity investee, Gruma S.A.B. de C.V. Interest income declined $55 million to $126 million primarily due to lower average interest rates. Interest expense declined $47 million to $422 million primarily due to lower average interest rates. Other expense net increased $91 million due to pre tax charges of $75 million related to the early extinguishment of debt and $59 million for unrealized losses on interest rate swaps (for more information on the charges related to the early extinguishment of debt, see Note 8 in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data). Income taxes decreased $146 million due to a lower effective income tax rate partially offset by higher pretax earnings. The Companys effective income tax rate during 2010 was 25.8%. In 2009, the effective income tax rate was 32.5% which included $158 million of income tax charges related to the partial restructuring of the holding company structure through which the Company holds a portion of its equity investment in Wilmar. Excluding these Wilmar charges, the Companys effective income tax rate for 2009 was 26.2%. For more information concerning Wilmar tax matters see Note 13 in Item 8. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Operating profit by segment is as follows: 2010 2009 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing and Origination $ 818 $ 767 $ 51 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel and Other 291 265 26 Asia 291 248 43 Total Oilseeds Processing 1,400 1,280 120 Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 529 500 29 Bioproducts 193 (315 ) 508 Total Corn Processing 722 185 537 Agricultural Services Merchandising and Handling 583 832 (249 ) Transportation 85 162 (77 ) Total Agricultural Services 668 994 (326 ) Other Processing 403 51 352 Financial 46 (57 ) 103 Total Other 449 (6 ) 455 Total Segment Operating Profit 3,239 2,453 786 Corporate (see below) (654 ) 47 (701 ) Earnings Before Income Taxes $ 2,585 $ 2,500 $ 85 Corporate results are as follows: 2010 2009 Change (In millions) LIFO credit $ 42 $ 517 $ (475 ) Unallocated interest expense net (283 ) (192 ) (91 ) Unallocated corporate costs (266 ) (252 ) (14 ) Charges on early extinguishment of debt (75 ) (75 ) Unrealized losses on interest rate swaps (59 ) (59 ) Other (13 ) (26 ) 13 Total Corporate $ (654 ) $ 47 $ (701 ) Oilseeds Processing operating profit increased 9% to $1.4 billion. Crushing and origination results increased $51 million due to higher North American soybean crushing margins and favorable soft seed commodity positioning, partially offset by lower soybean crushing margins in Europe and South America. Refining, packaging, biodiesel and other operating profit increased $26 million due primarily to higher South American biodiesel results and improved margins in Europe. Oilseeds processing results in Asia increased $43 million to $291 million due principally to improved equity earnings of Wilmar. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Corn Processing operating profit increased $537 million to $722 million. Bioproducts operating profit increased $508 million due to improved ethanol and lysine sales volumes and improved ethanol margins resulting from lower net corn costs and decreased manufacturing costs. Ethanol sales volumes increased due to favorable gasoline blending economics and increased merchandising activity. Sweeteners and starches operating profit increased $29 million due to lower net corn and manufacturing costs due principally to lower energy and chemical prices. These lower manufacturing costs were partially offset by lower average selling prices. Agricultural Services operating profit decreased $326 million to $668 million. Merchandising and handling results decreased $249 million. Enhanced volume and margin opportunities created by 2009s volatile commodity markets and tight credit markets did not recur. Volumes and margins in 2010 benefited from strong demand for U.S. soybean exports following the short South American 2009 crop. Transportation results decreased $77 million due to lower barge freight rates and decreased barge utilization levels resulting from weaker U.S. economic conditions and the late, extended North American harvest. Other operating profit increased $455 million to $449 million. Other processing operating profit increased $352 million due to improved equity earnings from the Companys investment in Gruma, improved wheat milling margins, and improved cocoa processing results. Financial operating profit increased $103 million due primarily to the absence of losses experienced in 2009 from managed fund investments and captive insurance operations. Corporate results decreased $701 million. The effects of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations resulted in a credit of $42 million for the year ended June 30, 2010, compared to a credit of $517 million for the year ended June 30, 2009. Unallocated interest expense net increased $91 million reflecting a reduction in corporate interest income caused by lower short term interest rates and lower working capital requirements of the operating segments. In March 2010, the Company repurchased $500 million of long term debt which generated a $75 million pretax charge on early extinguishment of debt. In connection with a debt remarketing planned for 2011, the Company entered into interest rate swaps to fix the interest rate on a portion of the planned remarketing which resulted in $59 million of unrealized losses on interest rate swaps. Liquidity and Capital Resources A Company objective is to have sufficient liquidity, balance sheet strength, and financial flexibility to fund the operating and capital requirements of a capital intensive agricultural commodity based business. The primary source of funds to finance the Companys operations and capital expenditures is cash generated by operations. In addition, the Company maintains a commercial paper borrowing facility and has access to equity and debt capital from public and private sources in both U.S. and international markets. At June 30, 2011, the Company had $1.4 billion of cash, cash equivalents, and short term marketable securities and a current ratio, defined as current assets divided by current liabilities, of 2.1 to 1. Included in working capital is $7.1 billion of readily marketable commodity inventories. Cash used in operating activities was $2.3 billion for the year compared to cash provided by operating activities of $2.7 billion last year. Working capital increased in the current year due principally to higher agricultural commodity market prices. Cash used in investing activities of $1.7 billion, principally for capital expenditures, businesses acquired, and investments, was in line with last year. Cash provided by financing activities was $3.6 billion for the year compared to cash used in financing activities of $1.0 billion last year. Net borrowings increased primarily to fund higher working capital. Short term borrowings increased due principally to higher commercial paper borrowings, and long term borrowings increased primarily as a result of the issuance of $1.5 billion of 18 month floating rate notes in February 2011. In addition, the Company issued common stock and received $1.75 billion under the forward stock purchase component of the Companys Equity Units (see Note 8 in Item 8). At June 30, 2011, the Companys capital resources included net worth of $18.8 billion and lines of credit totaling $6.9 billion, of which $5.7 billion was unused. The Companys ratio of long term debt to total capital (the sum of the Companys long term debt and shareholders equity) was 30% at June 30, 2011 and 32% at June 30, 2010. This ratio is a measure of the Companys long term indebtedness and is an indicator of financial flexibility. Of the Companys total lines of credit, $4.6 billion support a commercial paper borrowing facility, against which there were $620 million of commercial paper outstanding at June 30, 2011. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) The Company has outstanding $1.15 billion principal amount of convertible senior notes. As of June 30, 2011, none of the conditions permitting conversion of these notes had been satisfied. The Company has purchased call options and warrants intended to reduce the potential shareholder dilution upon future conversion of the notes. As of June 30, 2011, the market price of the Companys common stock was not greater than the exercise price of the purchased call options or warrants related to the convertible senior notes. On July 1, 2011, the Company entered into a 364 day accounts receivable securitization facility. The facility provides the Company with up to $1.0 billion in liquidity. Under the facility, the Companys U.S. originated trade accounts receivable are sold to a wholly owned bankruptcy remote entity which then sells an undivided interest in the receivable as a collateral for any borrowings under the facility. Any borrowings under the facility will be recorded as secured borrowings. As of August 24, 2011, the Company had not used the facility. This facility expands the Companys access to liquidity through efficient use of its balance sheet assets. The Companys credit facilities and certain debentures require the Company to comply with specified financial and non financial covenants including maintenance of minimum tangible net worth as well as limitations related to incurring liens, secured debt, and certain other financing arrangements. The Company is in compliance with these covenants as of June 30, 2011. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements In the normal course of business, the Company enters into contracts and commitments which obligate the Company to make payments in the future. The following table sets forth the Companys significant future obligations by time period. Purchases include commodity based contracts entered into in the normal course of business, which are further described in Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, energy related purchase contracts entered into in the normal course of business, and other purchase obligations related to the Companys normal business activities. The following table does not include unrecognized income tax benefits of $79 million as of June 30, 2011 as the Company is unable to reasonably estimate the timing of settlement. Where applicable, information included in the Companys consolidated financial statements and notes is cross referenced in this table. Payments Due by Period Contractual Item 8 Note Less than 1 3 3 5 More than Obligations Reference Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years (In millions) Purchases Inventories $ 17,457 $ 16,593 $ 807 $ 43 $ 14 Energy 456 340 76 22 18 Other 398 168 186 35 9 Total purchases 18,311 17,101 1,069 100 41 Short term debt 1,875 1,875 Long term debt Note 8 8,444 178 2,875 46 5,345 Estimated interest payments 7,177 384 690 646 5,457 Operating leases Note 14 1,163 233 334 225 371 Estimated pension and other postretirement plan contributions (1) Note 15 167 55 19 21 72 Total $ 37,137 $ 19,826 $ 4,987 $ 1,038 $ 11,286 (1) Includes pension contributions of $47 million for fiscal 2012. The Company is unable to estimate the amount of pension contributions beyond fiscal year 2012. For more information concerning the Companys pension and other postretirement plans, see Note 15 in Item 8. At June 30, 2011, the Company estimates it will spend approximately $2.8 billion through calendar year 2014 to complete currently approved capital projects which are not included in the table above. The Company also has outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds of $620 million at June 30, 2011. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) In addition, the Company has entered into agreements, primarily debt guarantee agreements related to equity method investees, which could obligate the Company to make future payments. The Companys liability under these agreements arises only if the primary entity fails to perform its contractual obligation. The Company has collateral for a portion of these contingent obligations. At June 30, 2011, these contingent obligations totaled approximately $121 million. Amounts outstanding for the primary entity under these contingent obligations were $69 million at June 30, 2011. Critical Accounting Policies The process of preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the carrying values of the Companys assets and liabilities as well as the recognition of revenues and expenses. These estimates and judgments are based on the Companys historical experience and managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Certain of the Companys accounting policies are considered critical, as these policies are important to the depiction of the Companys financial statements and require significant or complex judgment by management. Management has discussed with the Companys Audit Committee the development, selection, disclosure, and application of these critical accounting policies. Following are the accounting policies management considers critical to the Companys financial statements. Inventories and Derivatives Certain of the Companys merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, forward fixed price purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts are valued at estimated market values. These merchandisable agricultural commodities are freely traded, have quoted market prices, and may be sold without significant additional processing. Management estimates market value based on exchange quoted prices, adjusted for differences in local markets. Changes in the market values of these inventories and contracts are recognized in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. If management used different methods or factors to estimate market value, amounts reported as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. Additionally, if market conditions change subsequent to year end, amounts reported in future periods as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. The Company, from time to time, uses derivative contracts designated as cash flow hedges to fix the purchase price of anticipated volumes of commodities to be purchased and processed in a future month, to fix the purchase price of the Companys anticipated natural gas requirements for certain production facilities, and to fix the sales price of anticipated volumes of ethanol. The change in the market value of such derivative contracts has historically been, and is expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold and net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. If it is determined that the derivative instruments used are no longer effective at offsetting changes in the price of the hedged item, then the changes in the market value of these exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts would be recorded in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. See Note 4 in Item 8 for additional information. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Employee Benefit Plans The Company provides substantially all U.S. employees and employees at certain international subsidiaries with pension benefits. Eligible U.S. employees with five or more years of service prior to January 1, 2009 participate in a defined benefit pension plan. Eligible U.S. employees hired on or after January 1, 2009 (and eligible salaried employees with less than five years of service prior to January 1, 2009) participate in a cash balance pension formula. The Company provides eligible U.S. employees who retire under qualifying conditions with access to postretirement health care, at full cost to the retiree (certain employees are grandfathered into subsidized coverage). In order to measure the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans, management makes several estimates and assumptions, including interest rates used to discount certain liabilities, rates of return on assets set aside to fund these plans, rates of compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and anticipated future health care costs. These estimates and assumptions are based on the Companys historical experience combined with managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Management also uses third party actuaries to assist in measuring the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans. If management used different estimates and assumptions regarding these plans, the funded status of the plans could vary significantly, and the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. See Note 15 in Item 8 for additional information. Income Taxes The Company frequently faces challenges from U.S. and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company records reserves for estimates of potential additional tax owed by the Company. As an example, a subsidiary of the Company received tax assessments in the amount of $665 million consisting of tax, penalty, and interest (adjusted for interest and variation in currency exchange rates) from the Brazilian Federal Revenue Service challenging the deductibility of commodity hedging losses incurred by the Company for tax years 2004, 2006 and 2007. The Company evaluated its tax position regarding these hedging transactions and concluded, based in part upon advice from Brazilian legal counsel, that it was appropriate to recognize the tax benefits of these deductions (See Note 13 in Item 8 for additional information). Deferred tax assets represent items to be used as tax deductions or credits in future tax returns, and the related tax benefit has already been recognized in the Companys income statement. The realization of the Companys deferred tax assets is dependent upon future taxable income in specific tax jurisdictions, the timing and amount of which are uncertain. The Company evaluates all available positive and negative evidence including estimated future reversals of existing temporary differences, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies, and recent financial results. Valuation allowances related to these deferred tax assets have been established to the extent the realization of the tax benefit is not likely. To the extent the Company were to favorably resolve matters for which accruals have been established or be required to pay amounts in excess of the aforementioned reserves, the Companys effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be impacted. Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and the Companys share of the undistributed earnings of affiliated corporate joint venture companies accounted for on the equity method amounting to approximately $8.2 billion at June 30, 2011, are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned factors may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and cash flows of the Companys assets in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its factories. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment, technology, and companies related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. Assets are written down after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these assets, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Goodwill and other intangible assets The Company accounts for its goodwill and other intangible assets in accordance with ASC Topic 350, Intangibles Goodwill and Other. Under this standard, goodwill and intangible assets deemed to have indefinite lives are not amortized but are subject to annual impairment tests. The Company evaluates goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year or whenever there are indicators that the carrying value of the assets may not be fully recoverable. Definite lived intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its impairment tests, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Valuation of Marketable Securities and Investments in Affiliates The Company classifies the majority of its marketable securities as available for sale and carries these securities at fair value. The Company applies the equity method for investments over which the Company has the ability to exercise significant influence. These investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings and are adjusted, where appropriate, for amortizable basis differences between the investment balance and the underlying net assets of the investee. For publicly traded securities, the fair value of the Companys investments is readily available based on quoted market prices. For non publicly traded securities, managements assessment of fair value is based on valuation methodologies including discounted cash flows and estimates of sales proceeds. In the event of a decline in fair value of an investment below carrying value, management is required to determine if the decline in fair value is other than temporary. In evaluating the nature of a decline in the fair value of an investment, management considers the market conditions, trends of earnings, discounted cash flows, trading volumes, and other key measures of the investment as well as the Companys ability and intent to hold the investment. When such a decline in value is deemed to be other than temporary, an impairment loss is recognized in the current period operating results to the extent of the decline. See Notes 5 and 6 in Item 8 for information regarding the Companys marketable securities and investments in affiliates. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these marketable securities, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in: commodity market prices as they relate to the Companys net commodity position, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and prices of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to factors such as changes in weather conditions, disease, plantings, government programs and policies, competition, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. The Company enters into derivative and non derivative contracts with the primary objective of managing the Companys exposure to adverse price movements in the agricultural commodities used for, and produced in, our business operations. The Company will also use exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the volatility of the relationship between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contracts defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company, from time to time, enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold or net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. The Companys commodity position consists of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, related purchase and sales contracts, energy and freight contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts including contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements, net of sales. The fair value of the Companys commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing all of the commodity positions at quoted market prices for the period, where available, or utilizing a close proxy. The Company has established metrics to monitor the amount of market risk exposure, which consist of volumetric limits, and value at risk (VaR) limits. VaR measures the potential loss, at a 95% confidence level, that could be incurred over a one year period. Volumetric limits are monitored daily and VaR calculations and sensitivity analysis are monitored weekly. In addition to measuring the hypothetical loss resulting from an adverse two standard deviation move in market prices (assuming no correlations) over a one year period using VaR, sensitivity analysis is performed measuring the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in market prices. The highest, lowest, and average weekly position for each of the last two years together with the market risk from a hypothetical 10% adverse price change is as follows: 2011 2010 Long/(Short) Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest position $ 2,388 $ 239 $ 738 $ 74 Lowest position 368 37 (183 ) (18 ) Average position 1,644 164 216 22 The change in fair value of the average position for 2011 compared to 2010 was principally the result of changes in average quantities underlying the weekly commodity position. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) Currencies The Company conducts its business in over 75 countries. For the majority of the Companys subsidiaries located outside the United States, the local currency is the functional currency. To reduce the risks associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, the Company enters into currency exchange contracts to minimize its foreign currency position related to transactions denominated primarily in Euro, British pound, Canadian dollar, and Brazilian real currencies. These currencies represent the major functional or local currencies in which recurring business transactions occur. The Company does not use currency exchange contracts as hedges against amounts permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The currency exchange contracts used are forward contracts, swaps with banks, exchange traded futures contracts, and over the counter options. The changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $8.2 billion at June 30, 2011, and $6.4 billion at June 30, 2010. This increase is due to the appreciation of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar and an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The potential loss in fair value, which would principally be recognized in Other Comprehensive Income, resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $837 million and $639 million for 2011 and 2010, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 50 basis points decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2011 2010 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 9,108 $ 7,700 Excess of fair value over carrying value 842 870 Market risk 333 289 The increase in fair value of long term debt in 2011 resulted principally from the issuance of $1.5 billion of 18 month floating rate notes in February 2011. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Cost of products sold decreased 11% to $57.8 billion, due principally to decreased agricultural commodity costs including the impact of changes in LIFO inventory valuations which reduced cost of products sold by $42 million in 2010 compared to $517 million in 2009. Manufacturing expenses decreased 1% or $60 million, primarily due to lower energy, chemical and fuel costs partially offset by higher employee related costs and a $124 million increase in depreciation and amortization expense. In 2010, manufacturing expenses included additional costs associated with the Companys new greenfield plants. Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased 1% to $1.4 billion, due principally to decreased provisions for doubtful accounts partially offset by increased expenses for legal, professional, and commercial services. Equity earnings of unconsolidated affiliates increased $416 million to $561 million primarily due to the absence of a non cash charge of $275 million in 2009 related to currency derivative losses of the Companys equity investee, Gruma S.A.B. de C.V. Interest income declined $55 million to $126 million primarily due to lower average interest rates. Interest expense declined $47 million to $422 million primarily due to lower average interest rates. Other expense net increased $91 million due to pre tax charges of $75 million related to the early extinguishment of debt and $59 million for unrealized losses on interest rate swaps (for more information on the charges related to the early extinguishment of debt, see Note 8 in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data). Income taxes decreased $146 million due to a lower effective income tax rate partially offset by higher pretax earnings. The Companys effective income tax rate during 2010 was 25.8%. In 2009, the effective income tax rate was 32.5% which included $158 million of income tax charges related to the partial restructuring of the holding company structure through which the Company holds a portion of its equity investment in Wilmar. Excluding these Wilmar charges, the Companys effective income tax rate for 2009 was 26.2%. For more information concerning Wilmar tax matters see Note 13 in Item 8. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Operating profit by segment is as follows: 2010 2009 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing and Origination $ 818 $ 767 $ 51 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel and Other 291 265 26 Asia 291 248 43 Total Oilseeds Processing 1,400 1,280 120 Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 529 500 29 Bioproducts 193 (315 ) 508 Total Corn Processing 722 185 537 Agricultural Services Merchandising and Handling 583 832 (249 ) Transportation 85 162 (77 ) Total Agricultural Services 668 994 (326 ) Other Processing 403 51 352 Financial 46 (57 ) 103 Total Other 449 (6 ) 455 Total Segment Operating Profit 3,239 2,453 786 Corporate (see below) (654 ) 47 (701 ) Earnings Before Income Taxes $ 2,585 $ 2,500 $ 85 Corporate results are as follows: 2010 2009 Change (In millions) LIFO credit $ 42 $ 517 $ (475 ) Unallocated interest expense net (283 ) (192 ) (91 ) Unallocated corporate costs (266 ) (252 ) (14 ) Charges on early extinguishment of debt (75 ) (75 ) Unrealized losses on interest rate swaps (59 ) (59 ) Other (13 ) (26 ) 13 Total Corporate $ (654 ) $ 47 $ (701 ) Oilseeds Processing operating profit increased 9% to $1.4 billion. Crushing and origination results increased $51 million due to higher North American soybean crushing margins and favorable soft seed commodity positioning, partially offset by lower soybean crushing margins in Europe and South America. Refining, packaging, biodiesel and other operating profit increased $26 million due primarily to higher South American biodiesel results and improved margins in Europe. Oilseeds processing results in Asia increased $43 million to $291 million due principally to improved equity earnings of Wilmar. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Corn Processing operating profit increased $537 million to $722 million. Bioproducts operating profit increased $508 million due to improved ethanol and lysine sales volumes and improved ethanol margins resulting from lower net corn costs and decreased manufacturing costs. Ethanol sales volumes increased due to favorable gasoline blending economics and increased merchandising activity. Sweeteners and starches operating profit increased $29 million due to lower net corn and manufacturing costs due principally to lower energy and chemical prices. These lower manufacturing costs were partially offset by lower average selling prices. Agricultural Services operating profit decreased $326 million to $668 million. Merchandising and handling results decreased $249 million. Enhanced volume and margin opportunities created by 2009s volatile commodity markets and tight credit markets did not recur. Volumes and margins in 2010 benefited from strong demand for U.S. soybean exports following the short South American 2009 crop. Transportation results decreased $77 million due to lower barge freight rates and decreased barge utilization levels resulting from weaker U.S. economic conditions and the late, extended North American harvest. Other operating profit increased $455 million to $449 million. Other processing operating profit increased $352 million due to improved equity earnings from the Companys investment in Gruma, improved wheat milling margins, and improved cocoa processing results. Financial operating profit increased $103 million due primarily to the absence of losses experienced in 2009 from managed fund investments and captive insurance operations. Corporate results decreased $701 million. The effects of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations resulted in a credit of $42 million for the year ended June 30, 2010, compared to a credit of $517 million for the year ended June 30, 2009. Unallocated interest expense net increased $91 million reflecting a reduction in corporate interest income caused by lower short term interest rates and lower working capital requirements of the operating segments. In March 2010, the Company repurchased $500 million of long term debt which generated a $75 million pretax charge on early extinguishment of debt. In connection with a debt remarketing planned for 2011, the Company entered into interest rate swaps to fix the interest rate on a portion of the planned remarketing which resulted in $59 million of unrealized losses on interest rate swaps. Liquidity and Capital Resources A Company objective is to have sufficient liquidity, balance sheet strength, and financial flexibility to fund the operating and capital requirements of a capital intensive agricultural commodity based business. The primary source of funds to finance the Companys operations and capital expenditures is cash generated by operations. In addition, the Company maintains a commercial paper borrowing facility and has access to equity and debt capital from public and private sources in both U.S. and international markets. At June 30, 2011, the Company had $1.4 billion of cash, cash equivalents, and short term marketable securities and a current ratio, defined as current assets divided by current liabilities, of 2.1 to 1. Included in working capital is $7.1 billion of readily marketable commodity inventories. Cash used in operating activities was $2.3 billion for the year compared to cash provided by operating activities of $2.7 billion last year. Working capital increased in the current year due principally to higher agricultural commodity market prices. Cash used in investing activities of $1.7 billion, principally for capital expenditures, businesses acquired, and investments, was in line with last year. Cash provided by financing activities was $3.6 billion for the year compared to cash used in financing activities of $1.0 billion last year. Net borrowings increased primarily to fund higher working capital. Short term borrowings increased due principally to higher commercial paper borrowings, and long term borrowings increased primarily as a result of the issuance of $1.5 billion of 18 month floating rate notes in February 2011. In addition, the Company issued common stock and received $1.75 billion under the forward stock purchase component of the Companys Equity Units (see Note 8 in Item 8). At June 30, 2011, the Companys capital resources included net worth of $18.8 billion and lines of credit totaling $6.9 billion, of which $5.7 billion was unused. The Companys ratio of long term debt to total capital (the sum of the Companys long term debt and shareholders equity) was 30% at June 30, 2011 and 32% at June 30, 2010. This ratio is a measure of the Companys long term indebtedness and is an indicator of financial flexibility. Of the Companys total lines of credit, $4.6 billion support a commercial paper borrowing facility, against which there were $620 million of commercial paper outstanding at June 30, 2011. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) The Company has outstanding $1.15 billion principal amount of convertible senior notes. As of June 30, 2011, none of the conditions permitting conversion of these notes had been satisfied. The Company has purchased call options and warrants intended to reduce the potential shareholder dilution upon future conversion of the notes. As of June 30, 2011, the market price of the Companys common stock was not greater than the exercise price of the purchased call options or warrants related to the convertible senior notes. On July 1, 2011, the Company entered into a 364 day accounts receivable securitization facility. The facility provides the Company with up to $1.0 billion in liquidity. Under the facility, the Companys U.S. originated trade accounts receivable are sold to a wholly owned bankruptcy remote entity which then sells an undivided interest in the receivable as a collateral for any borrowings under the facility. Any borrowings under the facility will be recorded as secured borrowings. As of August 24, 2011, the Company had not used the facility. This facility expands the Companys access to liquidity through efficient use of its balance sheet assets. The Companys credit facilities and certain debentures require the Company to comply with specified financial and non financial covenants including maintenance of minimum tangible net worth as well as limitations related to incurring liens, secured debt, and certain other financing arrangements. The Company is in compliance with these covenants as of June 30, 2011. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements In the normal course of business, the Company enters into contracts and commitments which obligate the Company to make payments in the future. The following table sets forth the Companys significant future obligations by time period. Purchases include commodity based contracts entered into in the normal course of business, which are further described in Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, energy related purchase contracts entered into in the normal course of business, and other purchase obligations related to the Companys normal business activities. The following table does not include unrecognized income tax benefits of $79 million as of June 30, 2011 as the Company is unable to reasonably estimate the timing of settlement. Where applicable, information included in the Companys consolidated financial statements and notes is cross referenced in this table. Payments Due by Period Contractual Item 8 Note Less than 1 3 3 5 More than Obligations Reference Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years (In millions) Purchases Inventories $ 17,457 $ 16,593 $ 807 $ 43 $ 14 Energy 456 340 76 22 18 Other 398 168 186 35 9 Total purchases 18,311 17,101 1,069 100 41 Short term debt 1,875 1,875 Long term debt Note 8 8,444 178 2,875 46 5,345 Estimated interest payments 7,177 384 690 646 5,457 Operating leases Note 14 1,163 233 334 225 371 Estimated pension and other postretirement plan contributions (1) Note 15 167 55 19 21 72 Total $ 37,137 $ 19,826 $ 4,987 $ 1,038 $ 11,286 (1) Includes pension contributions of $47 million for fiscal 2012. The Company is unable to estimate the amount of pension contributions beyond fiscal year 2012. For more information concerning the Companys pension and other postretirement plans, see Note 15 in Item 8. At June 30, 2011, the Company estimates it will spend approximately $2.8 billion through calendar year 2014 to complete currently approved capital projects which are not included in the table above. The Company also has outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds of $620 million at June 30, 2011. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) In addition, the Company has entered into agreements, primarily debt guarantee agreements related to equity method investees, which could obligate the Company to make future payments. The Companys liability under these agreements arises only if the primary entity fails to perform its contractual obligation. The Company has collateral for a portion of these contingent obligations. At June 30, 2011, these contingent obligations totaled approximately $121 million. Amounts outstanding for the primary entity under these contingent obligations were $69 million at June 30, 2011. Critical Accounting Policies The process of preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the carrying values of the Companys assets and liabilities as well as the recognition of revenues and expenses. These estimates and judgments are based on the Companys historical experience and managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Certain of the Companys accounting policies are considered critical, as these policies are important to the depiction of the Companys financial statements and require significant or complex judgment by management. Management has discussed with the Companys Audit Committee the development, selection, disclosure, and application of these critical accounting policies. Following are the accounting policies management considers critical to the Companys financial statements. Inventories and Derivatives Certain of the Companys merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, forward fixed price purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts are valued at estimated market values. These merchandisable agricultural commodities are freely traded, have quoted market prices, and may be sold without significant additional processing. Management estimates market value based on exchange quoted prices, adjusted for differences in local markets. Changes in the market values of these inventories and contracts are recognized in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. If management used different methods or factors to estimate market value, amounts reported as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. Additionally, if market conditions change subsequent to year end, amounts reported in future periods as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. The Company, from time to time, uses derivative contracts designated as cash flow hedges to fix the purchase price of anticipated volumes of commodities to be purchased and processed in a future month, to fix the purchase price of the Companys anticipated natural gas requirements for certain production facilities, and to fix the sales price of anticipated volumes of ethanol. The change in the market value of such derivative contracts has historically been, and is expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold and net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. If it is determined that the derivative instruments used are no longer effective at offsetting changes in the price of the hedged item, then the changes in the market value of these exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts would be recorded in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. See Note 4 in Item 8 for additional information. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Employee Benefit Plans The Company provides substantially all U.S. employees and employees at certain international subsidiaries with pension benefits. Eligible U.S. employees with five or more years of service prior to January 1, 2009 participate in a defined benefit pension plan. Eligible U.S. employees hired on or after January 1, 2009 (and eligible salaried employees with less than five years of service prior to January 1, 2009) participate in a cash balance pension formula. The Company provides eligible U.S. employees who retire under qualifying conditions with access to postretirement health care, at full cost to the retiree (certain employees are grandfathered into subsidized coverage). In order to measure the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans, management makes several estimates and assumptions, including interest rates used to discount certain liabilities, rates of return on assets set aside to fund these plans, rates of compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and anticipated future health care costs. These estimates and assumptions are based on the Companys historical experience combined with managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Management also uses third party actuaries to assist in measuring the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans. If management used different estimates and assumptions regarding these plans, the funded status of the plans could vary significantly, and the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. See Note 15 in Item 8 for additional information. Income Taxes The Company frequently faces challenges from U.S. and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company records reserves for estimates of potential additional tax owed by the Company. As an example, a subsidiary of the Company received tax assessments in the amount of $665 million consisting of tax, penalty, and interest (adjusted for interest and variation in currency exchange rates) from the Brazilian Federal Revenue Service challenging the deductibility of commodity hedging losses incurred by the Company for tax years 2004, 2006 and 2007. The Company evaluated its tax position regarding these hedging transactions and concluded, based in part upon advice from Brazilian legal counsel, that it was appropriate to recognize the tax benefits of these deductions (See Note 13 in Item 8 for additional information). Deferred tax assets represent items to be used as tax deductions or credits in future tax returns, and the related tax benefit has already been recognized in the Companys income statement. The realization of the Companys deferred tax assets is dependent upon future taxable income in specific tax jurisdictions, the timing and amount of which are uncertain. The Company evaluates all available positive and negative evidence including estimated future reversals of existing temporary differences, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies, and recent financial results. Valuation allowances related to these deferred tax assets have been established to the extent the realization of the tax benefit is not likely. To the extent the Company were to favorably resolve matters for which accruals have been established or be required to pay amounts in excess of the aforementioned reserves, the Companys effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be impacted. Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and the Companys share of the undistributed earnings of affiliated corporate joint venture companies accounted for on the equity method amounting to approximately $8.2 billion at June 30, 2011, are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned factors may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and cash flows of the Companys assets in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its factories. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment, technology, and companies related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. Assets are written down after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these assets, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Goodwill and other intangible assets The Company accounts for its goodwill and other intangible assets in accordance with ASC Topic 350, Intangibles Goodwill and Other. Under this standard, goodwill and intangible assets deemed to have indefinite lives are not amortized but are subject to annual impairment tests. The Company evaluates goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year or whenever there are indicators that the carrying value of the assets may not be fully recoverable. Definite lived intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its impairment tests, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Valuation of Marketable Securities and Investments in Affiliates The Company classifies the majority of its marketable securities as available for sale and carries these securities at fair value. The Company applies the equity method for investments over which the Company has the ability to exercise significant influence. These investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings and are adjusted, where appropriate, for amortizable basis differences between the investment balance and the underlying net assets of the investee. For publicly traded securities, the fair value of the Companys investments is readily available based on quoted market prices. For non publicly traded securities, managements assessment of fair value is based on valuation methodologies including discounted cash flows and estimates of sales proceeds. In the event of a decline in fair value of an investment below carrying value, management is required to determine if the decline in fair value is other than temporary. In evaluating the nature of a decline in the fair value of an investment, management considers the market conditions, trends of earnings, discounted cash flows, trading volumes, and other key measures of the investment as well as the Companys ability and intent to hold the investment. When such a decline in value is deemed to be other than temporary, an impairment loss is recognized in the current period operating results to the extent of the decline. See Notes 5 and 6 in Item 8 for information regarding the Companys marketable securities and investments in affiliates. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these marketable securities, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in: commodity market prices as they relate to the Companys net commodity position, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and prices of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to factors such as changes in weather conditions, disease, plantings, government programs and policies, competition, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. The Company enters into derivative and non derivative contracts with the primary objective of managing the Companys exposure to adverse price movements in the agricultural commodities used for, and produced in, our business operations. The Company will also use exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the volatility of the relationship between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contracts defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company, from time to time, enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold or net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. The Companys commodity position consists of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, related purchase and sales contracts, energy and freight contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts including contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements, net of sales. The fair value of the Companys commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing all of the commodity positions at quoted market prices for the period, where available, or utilizing a close proxy. The Company has established metrics to monitor the amount of market risk exposure, which consist of volumetric limits, and value at risk (VaR) limits. VaR measures the potential loss, at a 95% confidence level, that could be incurred over a one year period. Volumetric limits are monitored daily and VaR calculations and sensitivity analysis are monitored weekly. In addition to measuring the hypothetical loss resulting from an adverse two standard deviation move in market prices (assuming no correlations) over a one year period using VaR, sensitivity analysis is performed measuring the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in market prices. The highest, lowest, and average weekly position for each of the last two years together with the market risk from a hypothetical 10% adverse price change is as follows: 2011 2010 Long/(Short) Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest position $ 2,388 $ 239 $ 738 $ 74 Lowest position 368 37 (183 ) (18 ) Average position 1,644 164 216 22 The change in fair value of the average position for 2011 compared to 2010 was principally the result of changes in average quantities underlying the weekly commodity position. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) Currencies The Company conducts its business in over 75 countries. For the majority of the Companys subsidiaries located outside the United States, the local currency is the functional currency. To reduce the risks associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, the Company enters into currency exchange contracts to minimize its foreign currency position related to transactions denominated primarily in Euro, British pound, Canadian dollar, and Brazilian real currencies. These currencies represent the major functional or local currencies in which recurring business transactions occur. The Company does not use currency exchange contracts as hedges against amounts permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The currency exchange contracts used are forward contracts, swaps with banks, exchange traded futures contracts, and over the counter options. The changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $8.2 billion at June 30, 2011, and $6.4 billion at June 30, 2010. This increase is due to the appreciation of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar and an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The potential loss in fair value, which would principally be recognized in Other Comprehensive Income, resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $837 million and $639 million for 2011 and 2010, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 50 basis points decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2011 2010 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 9,108 $ 7,700 Excess of fair value over carrying value 842 870 Market risk 333 289 The increase in fair value of long term debt in 2011 resulted principally from the issuance of $1.5 billion of 18 month floating rate notes in February 2011. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Operating profit by segment is as follows: 2010 2009 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing and Origination $ 818 $ 767 $ 51 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel and Other 291 265 26 Asia 291 248 43 Total Oilseeds Processing 1,400 1,280 120 Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 529 500 29 Bioproducts 193 (315 ) 508 Total Corn Processing 722 185 537 Agricultural Services Merchandising and Handling 583 832 (249 ) Transportation 85 162 (77 ) Total Agricultural Services 668 994 (326 ) Other Processing 403 51 352 Financial 46 (57 ) 103 Total Other 449 (6 ) 455 Total Segment Operating Profit 3,239 2,453 786 Corporate (see below) (654 ) 47 (701 ) Earnings Before Income Taxes $ 2,585 $ 2,500 $ 85 Corporate results are as follows: 2010 2009 Change (In millions) LIFO credit $ 42 $ 517 $ (475 ) Unallocated interest expense net (283 ) (192 ) (91 ) Unallocated corporate costs (266 ) (252 ) (14 ) Charges on early extinguishment of debt (75 ) (75 ) Unrealized losses on interest rate swaps (59 ) (59 ) Other (13 ) (26 ) 13 Total Corporate $ (654 ) $ 47 $ (701 ) Oilseeds Processing operating profit increased 9% to $1.4 billion. Crushing and origination results increased $51 million due to higher North American soybean crushing margins and favorable soft seed commodity positioning, partially offset by lower soybean crushing margins in Europe and South America. Refining, packaging, biodiesel and other operating profit increased $26 million due primarily to higher South American biodiesel results and improved margins in Europe. Oilseeds processing results in Asia increased $43 million to $291 million due principally to improved equity earnings of Wilmar. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Corn Processing operating profit increased $537 million to $722 million. Bioproducts operating profit increased $508 million due to improved ethanol and lysine sales volumes and improved ethanol margins resulting from lower net corn costs and decreased manufacturing costs. Ethanol sales volumes increased due to favorable gasoline blending economics and increased merchandising activity. Sweeteners and starches operating profit increased $29 million due to lower net corn and manufacturing costs due principally to lower energy and chemical prices. These lower manufacturing costs were partially offset by lower average selling prices. Agricultural Services operating profit decreased $326 million to $668 million. Merchandising and handling results decreased $249 million. Enhanced volume and margin opportunities created by 2009s volatile commodity markets and tight credit markets did not recur. Volumes and margins in 2010 benefited from strong demand for U.S. soybean exports following the short South American 2009 crop. Transportation results decreased $77 million due to lower barge freight rates and decreased barge utilization levels resulting from weaker U.S. economic conditions and the late, extended North American harvest. Other operating profit increased $455 million to $449 million. Other processing operating profit increased $352 million due to improved equity earnings from the Companys investment in Gruma, improved wheat milling margins, and improved cocoa processing results. Financial operating profit increased $103 million due primarily to the absence of losses experienced in 2009 from managed fund investments and captive insurance operations. Corporate results decreased $701 million. The effects of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations resulted in a credit of $42 million for the year ended June 30, 2010, compared to a credit of $517 million for the year ended June 30, 2009. Unallocated interest expense net increased $91 million reflecting a reduction in corporate interest income caused by lower short term interest rates and lower working capital requirements of the operating segments. In March 2010, the Company repurchased $500 million of long term debt which generated a $75 million pretax charge on early extinguishment of debt. In connection with a debt remarketing planned for 2011, the Company entered into interest rate swaps to fix the interest rate on a portion of the planned remarketing which resulted in $59 million of unrealized losses on interest rate swaps. Liquidity and Capital Resources A Company objective is to have sufficient liquidity, balance sheet strength, and financial flexibility to fund the operating and capital requirements of a capital intensive agricultural commodity based business. The primary source of funds to finance the Companys operations and capital expenditures is cash generated by operations. In addition, the Company maintains a commercial paper borrowing facility and has access to equity and debt capital from public and private sources in both U.S. and international markets. At June 30, 2011, the Company had $1.4 billion of cash, cash equivalents, and short term marketable securities and a current ratio, defined as current assets divided by current liabilities, of 2.1 to 1. Included in working capital is $7.1 billion of readily marketable commodity inventories. Cash used in operating activities was $2.3 billion for the year compared to cash provided by operating activities of $2.7 billion last year. Working capital increased in the current year due principally to higher agricultural commodity market prices. Cash used in investing activities of $1.7 billion, principally for capital expenditures, businesses acquired, and investments, was in line with last year. Cash provided by financing activities was $3.6 billion for the year compared to cash used in financing activities of $1.0 billion last year. Net borrowings increased primarily to fund higher working capital. Short term borrowings increased due principally to higher commercial paper borrowings, and long term borrowings increased primarily as a result of the issuance of $1.5 billion of 18 month floating rate notes in February 2011. In addition, the Company issued common stock and received $1.75 billion under the forward stock purchase component of the Companys Equity Units (see Note 8 in Item 8). At June 30, 2011, the Companys capital resources included net worth of $18.8 billion and lines of credit totaling $6.9 billion, of which $5.7 billion was unused. The Companys ratio of long term debt to total capital (the sum of the Companys long term debt and shareholders equity) was 30% at June 30, 2011 and 32% at June 30, 2010. This ratio is a measure of the Companys long term indebtedness and is an indicator of financial flexibility. Of the Companys total lines of credit, $4.6 billion support a commercial paper borrowing facility, against which there were $620 million of commercial paper outstanding at June 30, 2011. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) The Company has outstanding $1.15 billion principal amount of convertible senior notes. As of June 30, 2011, none of the conditions permitting conversion of these notes had been satisfied. The Company has purchased call options and warrants intended to reduce the potential shareholder dilution upon future conversion of the notes. As of June 30, 2011, the market price of the Companys common stock was not greater than the exercise price of the purchased call options or warrants related to the convertible senior notes. On July 1, 2011, the Company entered into a 364 day accounts receivable securitization facility. The facility provides the Company with up to $1.0 billion in liquidity. Under the facility, the Companys U.S. originated trade accounts receivable are sold to a wholly owned bankruptcy remote entity which then sells an undivided interest in the receivable as a collateral for any borrowings under the facility. Any borrowings under the facility will be recorded as secured borrowings. As of August 24, 2011, the Company had not used the facility. This facility expands the Companys access to liquidity through efficient use of its balance sheet assets. The Companys credit facilities and certain debentures require the Company to comply with specified financial and non financial covenants including maintenance of minimum tangible net worth as well as limitations related to incurring liens, secured debt, and certain other financing arrangements. The Company is in compliance with these covenants as of June 30, 2011. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements In the normal course of business, the Company enters into contracts and commitments which obligate the Company to make payments in the future. The following table sets forth the Companys significant future obligations by time period. Purchases include commodity based contracts entered into in the normal course of business, which are further described in Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, energy related purchase contracts entered into in the normal course of business, and other purchase obligations related to the Companys normal business activities. The following table does not include unrecognized income tax benefits of $79 million as of June 30, 2011 as the Company is unable to reasonably estimate the timing of settlement. Where applicable, information included in the Companys consolidated financial statements and notes is cross referenced in this table. Payments Due by Period Contractual Item 8 Note Less than 1 3 3 5 More than Obligations Reference Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years (In millions) Purchases Inventories $ 17,457 $ 16,593 $ 807 $ 43 $ 14 Energy 456 340 76 22 18 Other 398 168 186 35 9 Total purchases 18,311 17,101 1,069 100 41 Short term debt 1,875 1,875 Long term debt Note 8 8,444 178 2,875 46 5,345 Estimated interest payments 7,177 384 690 646 5,457 Operating leases Note 14 1,163 233 334 225 371 Estimated pension and other postretirement plan contributions (1) Note 15 167 55 19 21 72 Total $ 37,137 $ 19,826 $ 4,987 $ 1,038 $ 11,286 (1) Includes pension contributions of $47 million for fiscal 2012. The Company is unable to estimate the amount of pension contributions beyond fiscal year 2012. For more information concerning the Companys pension and other postretirement plans, see Note 15 in Item 8. At June 30, 2011, the Company estimates it will spend approximately $2.8 billion through calendar year 2014 to complete currently approved capital projects which are not included in the table above. The Company also has outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds of $620 million at June 30, 2011. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) In addition, the Company has entered into agreements, primarily debt guarantee agreements related to equity method investees, which could obligate the Company to make future payments. The Companys liability under these agreements arises only if the primary entity fails to perform its contractual obligation. The Company has collateral for a portion of these contingent obligations. At June 30, 2011, these contingent obligations totaled approximately $121 million. Amounts outstanding for the primary entity under these contingent obligations were $69 million at June 30, 2011. Critical Accounting Policies The process of preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the carrying values of the Companys assets and liabilities as well as the recognition of revenues and expenses. These estimates and judgments are based on the Companys historical experience and managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Certain of the Companys accounting policies are considered critical, as these policies are important to the depiction of the Companys financial statements and require significant or complex judgment by management. Management has discussed with the Companys Audit Committee the development, selection, disclosure, and application of these critical accounting policies. Following are the accounting policies management considers critical to the Companys financial statements. Inventories and Derivatives Certain of the Companys merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, forward fixed price purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts are valued at estimated market values. These merchandisable agricultural commodities are freely traded, have quoted market prices, and may be sold without significant additional processing. Management estimates market value based on exchange quoted prices, adjusted for differences in local markets. Changes in the market values of these inventories and contracts are recognized in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. If management used different methods or factors to estimate market value, amounts reported as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. Additionally, if market conditions change subsequent to year end, amounts reported in future periods as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. The Company, from time to time, uses derivative contracts designated as cash flow hedges to fix the purchase price of anticipated volumes of commodities to be purchased and processed in a future month, to fix the purchase price of the Companys anticipated natural gas requirements for certain production facilities, and to fix the sales price of anticipated volumes of ethanol. The change in the market value of such derivative contracts has historically been, and is expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold and net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. If it is determined that the derivative instruments used are no longer effective at offsetting changes in the price of the hedged item, then the changes in the market value of these exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts would be recorded in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. See Note 4 in Item 8 for additional information. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Employee Benefit Plans The Company provides substantially all U.S. employees and employees at certain international subsidiaries with pension benefits. Eligible U.S. employees with five or more years of service prior to January 1, 2009 participate in a defined benefit pension plan. Eligible U.S. employees hired on or after January 1, 2009 (and eligible salaried employees with less than five years of service prior to January 1, 2009) participate in a cash balance pension formula. The Company provides eligible U.S. employees who retire under qualifying conditions with access to postretirement health care, at full cost to the retiree (certain employees are grandfathered into subsidized coverage). In order to measure the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans, management makes several estimates and assumptions, including interest rates used to discount certain liabilities, rates of return on assets set aside to fund these plans, rates of compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and anticipated future health care costs. These estimates and assumptions are based on the Companys historical experience combined with managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Management also uses third party actuaries to assist in measuring the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans. If management used different estimates and assumptions regarding these plans, the funded status of the plans could vary significantly, and the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. See Note 15 in Item 8 for additional information. Income Taxes The Company frequently faces challenges from U.S. and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company records reserves for estimates of potential additional tax owed by the Company. As an example, a subsidiary of the Company received tax assessments in the amount of $665 million consisting of tax, penalty, and interest (adjusted for interest and variation in currency exchange rates) from the Brazilian Federal Revenue Service challenging the deductibility of commodity hedging losses incurred by the Company for tax years 2004, 2006 and 2007. The Company evaluated its tax position regarding these hedging transactions and concluded, based in part upon advice from Brazilian legal counsel, that it was appropriate to recognize the tax benefits of these deductions (See Note 13 in Item 8 for additional information). Deferred tax assets represent items to be used as tax deductions or credits in future tax returns, and the related tax benefit has already been recognized in the Companys income statement. The realization of the Companys deferred tax assets is dependent upon future taxable income in specific tax jurisdictions, the timing and amount of which are uncertain. The Company evaluates all available positive and negative evidence including estimated future reversals of existing temporary differences, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies, and recent financial results. Valuation allowances related to these deferred tax assets have been established to the extent the realization of the tax benefit is not likely. To the extent the Company were to favorably resolve matters for which accruals have been established or be required to pay amounts in excess of the aforementioned reserves, the Companys effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be impacted. Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and the Companys share of the undistributed earnings of affiliated corporate joint venture companies accounted for on the equity method amounting to approximately $8.2 billion at June 30, 2011, are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned factors may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and cash flows of the Companys assets in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its factories. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment, technology, and companies related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. Assets are written down after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these assets, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Goodwill and other intangible assets The Company accounts for its goodwill and other intangible assets in accordance with ASC Topic 350, Intangibles Goodwill and Other. Under this standard, goodwill and intangible assets deemed to have indefinite lives are not amortized but are subject to annual impairment tests. The Company evaluates goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year or whenever there are indicators that the carrying value of the assets may not be fully recoverable. Definite lived intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its impairment tests, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Valuation of Marketable Securities and Investments in Affiliates The Company classifies the majority of its marketable securities as available for sale and carries these securities at fair value. The Company applies the equity method for investments over which the Company has the ability to exercise significant influence. These investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings and are adjusted, where appropriate, for amortizable basis differences between the investment balance and the underlying net assets of the investee. For publicly traded securities, the fair value of the Companys investments is readily available based on quoted market prices. For non publicly traded securities, managements assessment of fair value is based on valuation methodologies including discounted cash flows and estimates of sales proceeds. In the event of a decline in fair value of an investment below carrying value, management is required to determine if the decline in fair value is other than temporary. In evaluating the nature of a decline in the fair value of an investment, management considers the market conditions, trends of earnings, discounted cash flows, trading volumes, and other key measures of the investment as well as the Companys ability and intent to hold the investment. When such a decline in value is deemed to be other than temporary, an impairment loss is recognized in the current period operating results to the extent of the decline. See Notes 5 and 6 in Item 8 for information regarding the Companys marketable securities and investments in affiliates. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these marketable securities, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in: commodity market prices as they relate to the Companys net commodity position, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and prices of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to factors such as changes in weather conditions, disease, plantings, government programs and policies, competition, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. The Company enters into derivative and non derivative contracts with the primary objective of managing the Companys exposure to adverse price movements in the agricultural commodities used for, and produced in, our business operations. The Company will also use exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the volatility of the relationship between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contracts defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company, from time to time, enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold or net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. The Companys commodity position consists of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, related purchase and sales contracts, energy and freight contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts including contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements, net of sales. The fair value of the Companys commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing all of the commodity positions at quoted market prices for the period, where available, or utilizing a close proxy. The Company has established metrics to monitor the amount of market risk exposure, which consist of volumetric limits, and value at risk (VaR) limits. VaR measures the potential loss, at a 95% confidence level, that could be incurred over a one year period. Volumetric limits are monitored daily and VaR calculations and sensitivity analysis are monitored weekly. In addition to measuring the hypothetical loss resulting from an adverse two standard deviation move in market prices (assuming no correlations) over a one year period using VaR, sensitivity analysis is performed measuring the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in market prices. The highest, lowest, and average weekly position for each of the last two years together with the market risk from a hypothetical 10% adverse price change is as follows: 2011 2010 Long/(Short) Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest position $ 2,388 $ 239 $ 738 $ 74 Lowest position 368 37 (183 ) (18 ) Average position 1,644 164 216 22 The change in fair value of the average position for 2011 compared to 2010 was principally the result of changes in average quantities underlying the weekly commodity position. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) Currencies The Company conducts its business in over 75 countries. For the majority of the Companys subsidiaries located outside the United States, the local currency is the functional currency. To reduce the risks associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, the Company enters into currency exchange contracts to minimize its foreign currency position related to transactions denominated primarily in Euro, British pound, Canadian dollar, and Brazilian real currencies. These currencies represent the major functional or local currencies in which recurring business transactions occur. The Company does not use currency exchange contracts as hedges against amounts permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The currency exchange contracts used are forward contracts, swaps with banks, exchange traded futures contracts, and over the counter options. The changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $8.2 billion at June 30, 2011, and $6.4 billion at June 30, 2010. This increase is due to the appreciation of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar and an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The potential loss in fair value, which would principally be recognized in Other Comprehensive Income, resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $837 million and $639 million for 2011 and 2010, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 50 basis points decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2011 2010 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 9,108 $ 7,700 Excess of fair value over carrying value 842 870 Market risk 333 289 The increase in fair value of long term debt in 2011 resulted principally from the issuance of $1.5 billion of 18 month floating rate notes in February 2011. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Corn Processing operating profit increased $537 million to $722 million. Bioproducts operating profit increased $508 million due to improved ethanol and lysine sales volumes and improved ethanol margins resulting from lower net corn costs and decreased manufacturing costs. Ethanol sales volumes increased due to favorable gasoline blending economics and increased merchandising activity. Sweeteners and starches operating profit increased $29 million due to lower net corn and manufacturing costs due principally to lower energy and chemical prices. These lower manufacturing costs were partially offset by lower average selling prices. Agricultural Services operating profit decreased $326 million to $668 million. Merchandising and handling results decreased $249 million. Enhanced volume and margin opportunities created by 2009s volatile commodity markets and tight credit markets did not recur. Volumes and margins in 2010 benefited from strong demand for U.S. soybean exports following the short South American 2009 crop. Transportation results decreased $77 million due to lower barge freight rates and decreased barge utilization levels resulting from weaker U.S. economic conditions and the late, extended North American harvest. Other operating profit increased $455 million to $449 million. Other processing operating profit increased $352 million due to improved equity earnings from the Companys investment in Gruma, improved wheat milling margins, and improved cocoa processing results. Financial operating profit increased $103 million due primarily to the absence of losses experienced in 2009 from managed fund investments and captive insurance operations. Corporate results decreased $701 million. The effects of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations resulted in a credit of $42 million for the year ended June 30, 2010, compared to a credit of $517 million for the year ended June 30, 2009. Unallocated interest expense net increased $91 million reflecting a reduction in corporate interest income caused by lower short term interest rates and lower working capital requirements of the operating segments. In March 2010, the Company repurchased $500 million of long term debt which generated a $75 million pretax charge on early extinguishment of debt. In connection with a debt remarketing planned for 2011, the Company entered into interest rate swaps to fix the interest rate on a portion of the planned remarketing which resulted in $59 million of unrealized losses on interest rate swaps. Liquidity and Capital Resources A Company objective is to have sufficient liquidity, balance sheet strength, and financial flexibility to fund the operating and capital requirements of a capital intensive agricultural commodity based business. The primary source of funds to finance the Companys operations and capital expenditures is cash generated by operations. In addition, the Company maintains a commercial paper borrowing facility and has access to equity and debt capital from public and private sources in both U.S. and international markets. At June 30, 2011, the Company had $1.4 billion of cash, cash equivalents, and short term marketable securities and a current ratio, defined as current assets divided by current liabilities, of 2.1 to 1. Included in working capital is $7.1 billion of readily marketable commodity inventories. Cash used in operating activities was $2.3 billion for the year compared to cash provided by operating activities of $2.7 billion last year. Working capital increased in the current year due principally to higher agricultural commodity market prices. Cash used in investing activities of $1.7 billion, principally for capital expenditures, businesses acquired, and investments, was in line with last year. Cash provided by financing activities was $3.6 billion for the year compared to cash used in financing activities of $1.0 billion last year. Net borrowings increased primarily to fund higher working capital. Short term borrowings increased due principally to higher commercial paper borrowings, and long term borrowings increased primarily as a result of the issuance of $1.5 billion of 18 month floating rate notes in February 2011. In addition, the Company issued common stock and received $1.75 billion under the forward stock purchase component of the Companys Equity Units (see Note 8 in Item 8). At June 30, 2011, the Companys capital resources included net worth of $18.8 billion and lines of credit totaling $6.9 billion, of which $5.7 billion was unused. The Companys ratio of long term debt to total capital (the sum of the Companys long term debt and shareholders equity) was 30% at June 30, 2011 and 32% at June 30, 2010. This ratio is a measure of the Companys long term indebtedness and is an indicator of financial flexibility. Of the Companys total lines of credit, $4.6 billion support a commercial paper borrowing facility, against which there were $620 million of commercial paper outstanding at June 30, 2011. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) The Company has outstanding $1.15 billion principal amount of convertible senior notes. As of June 30, 2011, none of the conditions permitting conversion of these notes had been satisfied. The Company has purchased call options and warrants intended to reduce the potential shareholder dilution upon future conversion of the notes. As of June 30, 2011, the market price of the Companys common stock was not greater than the exercise price of the purchased call options or warrants related to the convertible senior notes. On July 1, 2011, the Company entered into a 364 day accounts receivable securitization facility. The facility provides the Company with up to $1.0 billion in liquidity. Under the facility, the Companys U.S. originated trade accounts receivable are sold to a wholly owned bankruptcy remote entity which then sells an undivided interest in the receivable as a collateral for any borrowings under the facility. Any borrowings under the facility will be recorded as secured borrowings. As of August 24, 2011, the Company had not used the facility. This facility expands the Companys access to liquidity through efficient use of its balance sheet assets. The Companys credit facilities and certain debentures require the Company to comply with specified financial and non financial covenants including maintenance of minimum tangible net worth as well as limitations related to incurring liens, secured debt, and certain other financing arrangements. The Company is in compliance with these covenants as of June 30, 2011. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements In the normal course of business, the Company enters into contracts and commitments which obligate the Company to make payments in the future. The following table sets forth the Companys significant future obligations by time period. Purchases include commodity based contracts entered into in the normal course of business, which are further described in Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, energy related purchase contracts entered into in the normal course of business, and other purchase obligations related to the Companys normal business activities. The following table does not include unrecognized income tax benefits of $79 million as of June 30, 2011 as the Company is unable to reasonably estimate the timing of settlement. Where applicable, information included in the Companys consolidated financial statements and notes is cross referenced in this table. Payments Due by Period Contractual Item 8 Note Less than 1 3 3 5 More than Obligations Reference Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years (In millions) Purchases Inventories $ 17,457 $ 16,593 $ 807 $ 43 $ 14 Energy 456 340 76 22 18 Other 398 168 186 35 9 Total purchases 18,311 17,101 1,069 100 41 Short term debt 1,875 1,875 Long term debt Note 8 8,444 178 2,875 46 5,345 Estimated interest payments 7,177 384 690 646 5,457 Operating leases Note 14 1,163 233 334 225 371 Estimated pension and other postretirement plan contributions (1) Note 15 167 55 19 21 72 Total $ 37,137 $ 19,826 $ 4,987 $ 1,038 $ 11,286 (1) Includes pension contributions of $47 million for fiscal 2012. The Company is unable to estimate the amount of pension contributions beyond fiscal year 2012. For more information concerning the Companys pension and other postretirement plans, see Note 15 in Item 8. At June 30, 2011, the Company estimates it will spend approximately $2.8 billion through calendar year 2014 to complete currently approved capital projects which are not included in the table above. The Company also has outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds of $620 million at June 30, 2011. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) In addition, the Company has entered into agreements, primarily debt guarantee agreements related to equity method investees, which could obligate the Company to make future payments. The Companys liability under these agreements arises only if the primary entity fails to perform its contractual obligation. The Company has collateral for a portion of these contingent obligations. At June 30, 2011, these contingent obligations totaled approximately $121 million. Amounts outstanding for the primary entity under these contingent obligations were $69 million at June 30, 2011. Critical Accounting Policies The process of preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the carrying values of the Companys assets and liabilities as well as the recognition of revenues and expenses. These estimates and judgments are based on the Companys historical experience and managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Certain of the Companys accounting policies are considered critical, as these policies are important to the depiction of the Companys financial statements and require significant or complex judgment by management. Management has discussed with the Companys Audit Committee the development, selection, disclosure, and application of these critical accounting policies. Following are the accounting policies management considers critical to the Companys financial statements. Inventories and Derivatives Certain of the Companys merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, forward fixed price purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts are valued at estimated market values. These merchandisable agricultural commodities are freely traded, have quoted market prices, and may be sold without significant additional processing. Management estimates market value based on exchange quoted prices, adjusted for differences in local markets. Changes in the market values of these inventories and contracts are recognized in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. If management used different methods or factors to estimate market value, amounts reported as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. Additionally, if market conditions change subsequent to year end, amounts reported in future periods as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. The Company, from time to time, uses derivative contracts designated as cash flow hedges to fix the purchase price of anticipated volumes of commodities to be purchased and processed in a future month, to fix the purchase price of the Companys anticipated natural gas requirements for certain production facilities, and to fix the sales price of anticipated volumes of ethanol. The change in the market value of such derivative contracts has historically been, and is expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold and net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. If it is determined that the derivative instruments used are no longer effective at offsetting changes in the price of the hedged item, then the changes in the market value of these exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts would be recorded in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. See Note 4 in Item 8 for additional information. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Employee Benefit Plans The Company provides substantially all U.S. employees and employees at certain international subsidiaries with pension benefits. Eligible U.S. employees with five or more years of service prior to January 1, 2009 participate in a defined benefit pension plan. Eligible U.S. employees hired on or after January 1, 2009 (and eligible salaried employees with less than five years of service prior to January 1, 2009) participate in a cash balance pension formula. The Company provides eligible U.S. employees who retire under qualifying conditions with access to postretirement health care, at full cost to the retiree (certain employees are grandfathered into subsidized coverage). In order to measure the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans, management makes several estimates and assumptions, including interest rates used to discount certain liabilities, rates of return on assets set aside to fund these plans, rates of compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and anticipated future health care costs. These estimates and assumptions are based on the Companys historical experience combined with managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Management also uses third party actuaries to assist in measuring the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans. If management used different estimates and assumptions regarding these plans, the funded status of the plans could vary significantly, and the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. See Note 15 in Item 8 for additional information. Income Taxes The Company frequently faces challenges from U.S. and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company records reserves for estimates of potential additional tax owed by the Company. As an example, a subsidiary of the Company received tax assessments in the amount of $665 million consisting of tax, penalty, and interest (adjusted for interest and variation in currency exchange rates) from the Brazilian Federal Revenue Service challenging the deductibility of commodity hedging losses incurred by the Company for tax years 2004, 2006 and 2007. The Company evaluated its tax position regarding these hedging transactions and concluded, based in part upon advice from Brazilian legal counsel, that it was appropriate to recognize the tax benefits of these deductions (See Note 13 in Item 8 for additional information). Deferred tax assets represent items to be used as tax deductions or credits in future tax returns, and the related tax benefit has already been recognized in the Companys income statement. The realization of the Companys deferred tax assets is dependent upon future taxable income in specific tax jurisdictions, the timing and amount of which are uncertain. The Company evaluates all available positive and negative evidence including estimated future reversals of existing temporary differences, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies, and recent financial results. Valuation allowances related to these deferred tax assets have been established to the extent the realization of the tax benefit is not likely. To the extent the Company were to favorably resolve matters for which accruals have been established or be required to pay amounts in excess of the aforementioned reserves, the Companys effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be impacted. Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and the Companys share of the undistributed earnings of affiliated corporate joint venture companies accounted for on the equity method amounting to approximately $8.2 billion at June 30, 2011, are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned factors may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and cash flows of the Companys assets in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its factories. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment, technology, and companies related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. Assets are written down after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these assets, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Goodwill and other intangible assets The Company accounts for its goodwill and other intangible assets in accordance with ASC Topic 350, Intangibles Goodwill and Other. Under this standard, goodwill and intangible assets deemed to have indefinite lives are not amortized but are subject to annual impairment tests. The Company evaluates goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year or whenever there are indicators that the carrying value of the assets may not be fully recoverable. Definite lived intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its impairment tests, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Valuation of Marketable Securities and Investments in Affiliates The Company classifies the majority of its marketable securities as available for sale and carries these securities at fair value. The Company applies the equity method for investments over which the Company has the ability to exercise significant influence. These investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings and are adjusted, where appropriate, for amortizable basis differences between the investment balance and the underlying net assets of the investee. For publicly traded securities, the fair value of the Companys investments is readily available based on quoted market prices. For non publicly traded securities, managements assessment of fair value is based on valuation methodologies including discounted cash flows and estimates of sales proceeds. In the event of a decline in fair value of an investment below carrying value, management is required to determine if the decline in fair value is other than temporary. In evaluating the nature of a decline in the fair value of an investment, management considers the market conditions, trends of earnings, discounted cash flows, trading volumes, and other key measures of the investment as well as the Companys ability and intent to hold the investment. When such a decline in value is deemed to be other than temporary, an impairment loss is recognized in the current period operating results to the extent of the decline. See Notes 5 and 6 in Item 8 for information regarding the Companys marketable securities and investments in affiliates. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these marketable securities, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in: commodity market prices as they relate to the Companys net commodity position, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and prices of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to factors such as changes in weather conditions, disease, plantings, government programs and policies, competition, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. The Company enters into derivative and non derivative contracts with the primary objective of managing the Companys exposure to adverse price movements in the agricultural commodities used for, and produced in, our business operations. The Company will also use exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the volatility of the relationship between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contracts defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company, from time to time, enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold or net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. The Companys commodity position consists of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, related purchase and sales contracts, energy and freight contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts including contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements, net of sales. The fair value of the Companys commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing all of the commodity positions at quoted market prices for the period, where available, or utilizing a close proxy. The Company has established metrics to monitor the amount of market risk exposure, which consist of volumetric limits, and value at risk (VaR) limits. VaR measures the potential loss, at a 95% confidence level, that could be incurred over a one year period. Volumetric limits are monitored daily and VaR calculations and sensitivity analysis are monitored weekly. In addition to measuring the hypothetical loss resulting from an adverse two standard deviation move in market prices (assuming no correlations) over a one year period using VaR, sensitivity analysis is performed measuring the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in market prices. The highest, lowest, and average weekly position for each of the last two years together with the market risk from a hypothetical 10% adverse price change is as follows: 2011 2010 Long/(Short) Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest position $ 2,388 $ 239 $ 738 $ 74 Lowest position 368 37 (183 ) (18 ) Average position 1,644 164 216 22 The change in fair value of the average position for 2011 compared to 2010 was principally the result of changes in average quantities underlying the weekly commodity position. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) Currencies The Company conducts its business in over 75 countries. For the majority of the Companys subsidiaries located outside the United States, the local currency is the functional currency. To reduce the risks associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, the Company enters into currency exchange contracts to minimize its foreign currency position related to transactions denominated primarily in Euro, British pound, Canadian dollar, and Brazilian real currencies. These currencies represent the major functional or local currencies in which recurring business transactions occur. The Company does not use currency exchange contracts as hedges against amounts permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The currency exchange contracts used are forward contracts, swaps with banks, exchange traded futures contracts, and over the counter options. The changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $8.2 billion at June 30, 2011, and $6.4 billion at June 30, 2010. This increase is due to the appreciation of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar and an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The potential loss in fair value, which would principally be recognized in Other Comprehensive Income, resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $837 million and $639 million for 2011 and 2010, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 50 basis points decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2011 2010 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 9,108 $ 7,700 Excess of fair value over carrying value 842 870 Market risk 333 289 The increase in fair value of long term debt in 2011 resulted principally from the issuance of $1.5 billion of 18 month floating rate notes in February 2011. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) The Company has outstanding $1.15 billion principal amount of convertible senior notes. As of June 30, 2011, none of the conditions permitting conversion of these notes had been satisfied. The Company has purchased call options and warrants intended to reduce the potential shareholder dilution upon future conversion of the notes. As of June 30, 2011, the market price of the Companys common stock was not greater than the exercise price of the purchased call options or warrants related to the convertible senior notes. On July 1, 2011, the Company entered into a 364 day accounts receivable securitization facility. The facility provides the Company with up to $1.0 billion in liquidity. Under the facility, the Companys U.S. originated trade accounts receivable are sold to a wholly owned bankruptcy remote entity which then sells an undivided interest in the receivable as a collateral for any borrowings under the facility. Any borrowings under the facility will be recorded as secured borrowings. As of August 24, 2011, the Company had not used the facility. This facility expands the Companys access to liquidity through efficient use of its balance sheet assets. The Companys credit facilities and certain debentures require the Company to comply with specified financial and non financial covenants including maintenance of minimum tangible net worth as well as limitations related to incurring liens, secured debt, and certain other financing arrangements. The Company is in compliance with these covenants as of June 30, 2011. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements In the normal course of business, the Company enters into contracts and commitments which obligate the Company to make payments in the future. The following table sets forth the Companys significant future obligations by time period. Purchases include commodity based contracts entered into in the normal course of business, which are further described in Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, energy related purchase contracts entered into in the normal course of business, and other purchase obligations related to the Companys normal business activities. The following table does not include unrecognized income tax benefits of $79 million as of June 30, 2011 as the Company is unable to reasonably estimate the timing of settlement. Where applicable, information included in the Companys consolidated financial statements and notes is cross referenced in this table. Payments Due by Period Contractual Item 8 Note Less than 1 3 3 5 More than Obligations Reference Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years (In millions) Purchases Inventories $ 17,457 $ 16,593 $ 807 $ 43 $ 14 Energy 456 340 76 22 18 Other 398 168 186 35 9 Total purchases 18,311 17,101 1,069 100 41 Short term debt 1,875 1,875 Long term debt Note 8 8,444 178 2,875 46 5,345 Estimated interest payments 7,177 384 690 646 5,457 Operating leases Note 14 1,163 233 334 225 371 Estimated pension and other postretirement plan contributions (1) Note 15 167 55 19 21 72 Total $ 37,137 $ 19,826 $ 4,987 $ 1,038 $ 11,286 (1) Includes pension contributions of $47 million for fiscal 2012. The Company is unable to estimate the amount of pension contributions beyond fiscal year 2012. For more information concerning the Companys pension and other postretirement plans, see Note 15 in Item 8. At June 30, 2011, the Company estimates it will spend approximately $2.8 billion through calendar year 2014 to complete currently approved capital projects which are not included in the table above. The Company also has outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds of $620 million at June 30, 2011. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) In addition, the Company has entered into agreements, primarily debt guarantee agreements related to equity method investees, which could obligate the Company to make future payments. The Companys liability under these agreements arises only if the primary entity fails to perform its contractual obligation. The Company has collateral for a portion of these contingent obligations. At June 30, 2011, these contingent obligations totaled approximately $121 million. Amounts outstanding for the primary entity under these contingent obligations were $69 million at June 30, 2011. Critical Accounting Policies The process of preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the carrying values of the Companys assets and liabilities as well as the recognition of revenues and expenses. These estimates and judgments are based on the Companys historical experience and managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Certain of the Companys accounting policies are considered critical, as these policies are important to the depiction of the Companys financial statements and require significant or complex judgment by management. Management has discussed with the Companys Audit Committee the development, selection, disclosure, and application of these critical accounting policies. Following are the accounting policies management considers critical to the Companys financial statements. Inventories and Derivatives Certain of the Companys merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, forward fixed price purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts are valued at estimated market values. These merchandisable agricultural commodities are freely traded, have quoted market prices, and may be sold without significant additional processing. Management estimates market value based on exchange quoted prices, adjusted for differences in local markets. Changes in the market values of these inventories and contracts are recognized in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. If management used different methods or factors to estimate market value, amounts reported as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. Additionally, if market conditions change subsequent to year end, amounts reported in future periods as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. The Company, from time to time, uses derivative contracts designated as cash flow hedges to fix the purchase price of anticipated volumes of commodities to be purchased and processed in a future month, to fix the purchase price of the Companys anticipated natural gas requirements for certain production facilities, and to fix the sales price of anticipated volumes of ethanol. The change in the market value of such derivative contracts has historically been, and is expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold and net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. If it is determined that the derivative instruments used are no longer effective at offsetting changes in the price of the hedged item, then the changes in the market value of these exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts would be recorded in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. See Note 4 in Item 8 for additional information. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Employee Benefit Plans The Company provides substantially all U.S. employees and employees at certain international subsidiaries with pension benefits. Eligible U.S. employees with five or more years of service prior to January 1, 2009 participate in a defined benefit pension plan. Eligible U.S. employees hired on or after January 1, 2009 (and eligible salaried employees with less than five years of service prior to January 1, 2009) participate in a cash balance pension formula. The Company provides eligible U.S. employees who retire under qualifying conditions with access to postretirement health care, at full cost to the retiree (certain employees are grandfathered into subsidized coverage). In order to measure the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans, management makes several estimates and assumptions, including interest rates used to discount certain liabilities, rates of return on assets set aside to fund these plans, rates of compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and anticipated future health care costs. These estimates and assumptions are based on the Companys historical experience combined with managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Management also uses third party actuaries to assist in measuring the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans. If management used different estimates and assumptions regarding these plans, the funded status of the plans could vary significantly, and the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. See Note 15 in Item 8 for additional information. Income Taxes The Company frequently faces challenges from U.S. and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company records reserves for estimates of potential additional tax owed by the Company. As an example, a subsidiary of the Company received tax assessments in the amount of $665 million consisting of tax, penalty, and interest (adjusted for interest and variation in currency exchange rates) from the Brazilian Federal Revenue Service challenging the deductibility of commodity hedging losses incurred by the Company for tax years 2004, 2006 and 2007. The Company evaluated its tax position regarding these hedging transactions and concluded, based in part upon advice from Brazilian legal counsel, that it was appropriate to recognize the tax benefits of these deductions (See Note 13 in Item 8 for additional information). Deferred tax assets represent items to be used as tax deductions or credits in future tax returns, and the related tax benefit has already been recognized in the Companys income statement. The realization of the Companys deferred tax assets is dependent upon future taxable income in specific tax jurisdictions, the timing and amount of which are uncertain. The Company evaluates all available positive and negative evidence including estimated future reversals of existing temporary differences, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies, and recent financial results. Valuation allowances related to these deferred tax assets have been established to the extent the realization of the tax benefit is not likely. To the extent the Company were to favorably resolve matters for which accruals have been established or be required to pay amounts in excess of the aforementioned reserves, the Companys effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be impacted. Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and the Companys share of the undistributed earnings of affiliated corporate joint venture companies accounted for on the equity method amounting to approximately $8.2 billion at June 30, 2011, are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned factors may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and cash flows of the Companys assets in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its factories. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment, technology, and companies related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. Assets are written down after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these assets, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Goodwill and other intangible assets The Company accounts for its goodwill and other intangible assets in accordance with ASC Topic 350, Intangibles Goodwill and Other. Under this standard, goodwill and intangible assets deemed to have indefinite lives are not amortized but are subject to annual impairment tests. The Company evaluates goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year or whenever there are indicators that the carrying value of the assets may not be fully recoverable. Definite lived intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its impairment tests, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Valuation of Marketable Securities and Investments in Affiliates The Company classifies the majority of its marketable securities as available for sale and carries these securities at fair value. The Company applies the equity method for investments over which the Company has the ability to exercise significant influence. These investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings and are adjusted, where appropriate, for amortizable basis differences between the investment balance and the underlying net assets of the investee. For publicly traded securities, the fair value of the Companys investments is readily available based on quoted market prices. For non publicly traded securities, managements assessment of fair value is based on valuation methodologies including discounted cash flows and estimates of sales proceeds. In the event of a decline in fair value of an investment below carrying value, management is required to determine if the decline in fair value is other than temporary. In evaluating the nature of a decline in the fair value of an investment, management considers the market conditions, trends of earnings, discounted cash flows, trading volumes, and other key measures of the investment as well as the Companys ability and intent to hold the investment. When such a decline in value is deemed to be other than temporary, an impairment loss is recognized in the current period operating results to the extent of the decline. See Notes 5 and 6 in Item 8 for information regarding the Companys marketable securities and investments in affiliates. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these marketable securities, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in: commodity market prices as they relate to the Companys net commodity position, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and prices of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to factors such as changes in weather conditions, disease, plantings, government programs and policies, competition, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. The Company enters into derivative and non derivative contracts with the primary objective of managing the Companys exposure to adverse price movements in the agricultural commodities used for, and produced in, our business operations. The Company will also use exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the volatility of the relationship between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contracts defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company, from time to time, enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold or net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. The Companys commodity position consists of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, related purchase and sales contracts, energy and freight contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts including contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements, net of sales. The fair value of the Companys commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing all of the commodity positions at quoted market prices for the period, where available, or utilizing a close proxy. The Company has established metrics to monitor the amount of market risk exposure, which consist of volumetric limits, and value at risk (VaR) limits. VaR measures the potential loss, at a 95% confidence level, that could be incurred over a one year period. Volumetric limits are monitored daily and VaR calculations and sensitivity analysis are monitored weekly. In addition to measuring the hypothetical loss resulting from an adverse two standard deviation move in market prices (assuming no correlations) over a one year period using VaR, sensitivity analysis is performed measuring the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in market prices. The highest, lowest, and average weekly position for each of the last two years together with the market risk from a hypothetical 10% adverse price change is as follows: 2011 2010 Long/(Short) Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest position $ 2,388 $ 239 $ 738 $ 74 Lowest position 368 37 (183 ) (18 ) Average position 1,644 164 216 22 The change in fair value of the average position for 2011 compared to 2010 was principally the result of changes in average quantities underlying the weekly commodity position. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) Currencies The Company conducts its business in over 75 countries. For the majority of the Companys subsidiaries located outside the United States, the local currency is the functional currency. To reduce the risks associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, the Company enters into currency exchange contracts to minimize its foreign currency position related to transactions denominated primarily in Euro, British pound, Canadian dollar, and Brazilian real currencies. These currencies represent the major functional or local currencies in which recurring business transactions occur. The Company does not use currency exchange contracts as hedges against amounts permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The currency exchange contracts used are forward contracts, swaps with banks, exchange traded futures contracts, and over the counter options. The changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $8.2 billion at June 30, 2011, and $6.4 billion at June 30, 2010. This increase is due to the appreciation of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar and an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The potential loss in fair value, which would principally be recognized in Other Comprehensive Income, resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $837 million and $639 million for 2011 and 2010, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 50 basis points decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2011 2010 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 9,108 $ 7,700 Excess of fair value over carrying value 842 870 Market risk 333 289 The increase in fair value of long term debt in 2011 resulted principally from the issuance of $1.5 billion of 18 month floating rate notes in February 2011. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) In addition, the Company has entered into agreements, primarily debt guarantee agreements related to equity method investees, which could obligate the Company to make future payments. The Companys liability under these agreements arises only if the primary entity fails to perform its contractual obligation. The Company has collateral for a portion of these contingent obligations. At June 30, 2011, these contingent obligations totaled approximately $121 million. Amounts outstanding for the primary entity under these contingent obligations were $69 million at June 30, 2011. Critical Accounting Policies The process of preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the carrying values of the Companys assets and liabilities as well as the recognition of revenues and expenses. These estimates and judgments are based on the Companys historical experience and managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Certain of the Companys accounting policies are considered critical, as these policies are important to the depiction of the Companys financial statements and require significant or complex judgment by management. Management has discussed with the Companys Audit Committee the development, selection, disclosure, and application of these critical accounting policies. Following are the accounting policies management considers critical to the Companys financial statements. Inventories and Derivatives Certain of the Companys merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, forward fixed price purchase and sale contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter options contracts are valued at estimated market values. These merchandisable agricultural commodities are freely traded, have quoted market prices, and may be sold without significant additional processing. Management estimates market value based on exchange quoted prices, adjusted for differences in local markets. Changes in the market values of these inventories and contracts are recognized in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. If management used different methods or factors to estimate market value, amounts reported as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. Additionally, if market conditions change subsequent to year end, amounts reported in future periods as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. The Company, from time to time, uses derivative contracts designated as cash flow hedges to fix the purchase price of anticipated volumes of commodities to be purchased and processed in a future month, to fix the purchase price of the Companys anticipated natural gas requirements for certain production facilities, and to fix the sales price of anticipated volumes of ethanol. The change in the market value of such derivative contracts has historically been, and is expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold and net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. If it is determined that the derivative instruments used are no longer effective at offsetting changes in the price of the hedged item, then the changes in the market value of these exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts would be recorded in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. See Note 4 in Item 8 for additional information. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Employee Benefit Plans The Company provides substantially all U.S. employees and employees at certain international subsidiaries with pension benefits. Eligible U.S. employees with five or more years of service prior to January 1, 2009 participate in a defined benefit pension plan. Eligible U.S. employees hired on or after January 1, 2009 (and eligible salaried employees with less than five years of service prior to January 1, 2009) participate in a cash balance pension formula. The Company provides eligible U.S. employees who retire under qualifying conditions with access to postretirement health care, at full cost to the retiree (certain employees are grandfathered into subsidized coverage). In order to measure the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans, management makes several estimates and assumptions, including interest rates used to discount certain liabilities, rates of return on assets set aside to fund these plans, rates of compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and anticipated future health care costs. These estimates and assumptions are based on the Companys historical experience combined with managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Management also uses third party actuaries to assist in measuring the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans. If management used different estimates and assumptions regarding these plans, the funded status of the plans could vary significantly, and the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. See Note 15 in Item 8 for additional information. Income Taxes The Company frequently faces challenges from U.S. and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company records reserves for estimates of potential additional tax owed by the Company. As an example, a subsidiary of the Company received tax assessments in the amount of $665 million consisting of tax, penalty, and interest (adjusted for interest and variation in currency exchange rates) from the Brazilian Federal Revenue Service challenging the deductibility of commodity hedging losses incurred by the Company for tax years 2004, 2006 and 2007. The Company evaluated its tax position regarding these hedging transactions and concluded, based in part upon advice from Brazilian legal counsel, that it was appropriate to recognize the tax benefits of these deductions (See Note 13 in Item 8 for additional information). Deferred tax assets represent items to be used as tax deductions or credits in future tax returns, and the related tax benefit has already been recognized in the Companys income statement. The realization of the Companys deferred tax assets is dependent upon future taxable income in specific tax jurisdictions, the timing and amount of which are uncertain. The Company evaluates all available positive and negative evidence including estimated future reversals of existing temporary differences, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies, and recent financial results. Valuation allowances related to these deferred tax assets have been established to the extent the realization of the tax benefit is not likely. To the extent the Company were to favorably resolve matters for which accruals have been established or be required to pay amounts in excess of the aforementioned reserves, the Companys effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be impacted. Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and the Companys share of the undistributed earnings of affiliated corporate joint venture companies accounted for on the equity method amounting to approximately $8.2 billion at June 30, 2011, are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned factors may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and cash flows of the Companys assets in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its factories. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment, technology, and companies related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. Assets are written down after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these assets, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Goodwill and other intangible assets The Company accounts for its goodwill and other intangible assets in accordance with ASC Topic 350, Intangibles Goodwill and Other. Under this standard, goodwill and intangible assets deemed to have indefinite lives are not amortized but are subject to annual impairment tests. The Company evaluates goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year or whenever there are indicators that the carrying value of the assets may not be fully recoverable. Definite lived intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its impairment tests, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Valuation of Marketable Securities and Investments in Affiliates The Company classifies the majority of its marketable securities as available for sale and carries these securities at fair value. The Company applies the equity method for investments over which the Company has the ability to exercise significant influence. These investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings and are adjusted, where appropriate, for amortizable basis differences between the investment balance and the underlying net assets of the investee. For publicly traded securities, the fair value of the Companys investments is readily available based on quoted market prices. For non publicly traded securities, managements assessment of fair value is based on valuation methodologies including discounted cash flows and estimates of sales proceeds. In the event of a decline in fair value of an investment below carrying value, management is required to determine if the decline in fair value is other than temporary. In evaluating the nature of a decline in the fair value of an investment, management considers the market conditions, trends of earnings, discounted cash flows, trading volumes, and other key measures of the investment as well as the Companys ability and intent to hold the investment. When such a decline in value is deemed to be other than temporary, an impairment loss is recognized in the current period operating results to the extent of the decline. See Notes 5 and 6 in Item 8 for information regarding the Companys marketable securities and investments in affiliates. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these marketable securities, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in: commodity market prices as they relate to the Companys net commodity position, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and prices of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to factors such as changes in weather conditions, disease, plantings, government programs and policies, competition, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. The Company enters into derivative and non derivative contracts with the primary objective of managing the Companys exposure to adverse price movements in the agricultural commodities used for, and produced in, our business operations. The Company will also use exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the volatility of the relationship between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contracts defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company, from time to time, enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold or net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. The Companys commodity position consists of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, related purchase and sales contracts, energy and freight contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts including contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements, net of sales. The fair value of the Companys commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing all of the commodity positions at quoted market prices for the period, where available, or utilizing a close proxy. The Company has established metrics to monitor the amount of market risk exposure, which consist of volumetric limits, and value at risk (VaR) limits. VaR measures the potential loss, at a 95% confidence level, that could be incurred over a one year period. Volumetric limits are monitored daily and VaR calculations and sensitivity analysis are monitored weekly. In addition to measuring the hypothetical loss resulting from an adverse two standard deviation move in market prices (assuming no correlations) over a one year period using VaR, sensitivity analysis is performed measuring the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in market prices. The highest, lowest, and average weekly position for each of the last two years together with the market risk from a hypothetical 10% adverse price change is as follows: 2011 2010 Long/(Short) Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest position $ 2,388 $ 239 $ 738 $ 74 Lowest position 368 37 (183 ) (18 ) Average position 1,644 164 216 22 The change in fair value of the average position for 2011 compared to 2010 was principally the result of changes in average quantities underlying the weekly commodity position. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) Currencies The Company conducts its business in over 75 countries. For the majority of the Companys subsidiaries located outside the United States, the local currency is the functional currency. To reduce the risks associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, the Company enters into currency exchange contracts to minimize its foreign currency position related to transactions denominated primarily in Euro, British pound, Canadian dollar, and Brazilian real currencies. These currencies represent the major functional or local currencies in which recurring business transactions occur. The Company does not use currency exchange contracts as hedges against amounts permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The currency exchange contracts used are forward contracts, swaps with banks, exchange traded futures contracts, and over the counter options. The changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $8.2 billion at June 30, 2011, and $6.4 billion at June 30, 2010. This increase is due to the appreciation of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar and an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The potential loss in fair value, which would principally be recognized in Other Comprehensive Income, resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $837 million and $639 million for 2011 and 2010, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 50 basis points decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2011 2010 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 9,108 $ 7,700 Excess of fair value over carrying value 842 870 Market risk 333 289 The increase in fair value of long term debt in 2011 resulted principally from the issuance of $1.5 billion of 18 month floating rate notes in February 2011. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Employee Benefit Plans The Company provides substantially all U.S. employees and employees at certain international subsidiaries with pension benefits. Eligible U.S. employees with five or more years of service prior to January 1, 2009 participate in a defined benefit pension plan. Eligible U.S. employees hired on or after January 1, 2009 (and eligible salaried employees with less than five years of service prior to January 1, 2009) participate in a cash balance pension formula. The Company provides eligible U.S. employees who retire under qualifying conditions with access to postretirement health care, at full cost to the retiree (certain employees are grandfathered into subsidized coverage). In order to measure the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans, management makes several estimates and assumptions, including interest rates used to discount certain liabilities, rates of return on assets set aside to fund these plans, rates of compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and anticipated future health care costs. These estimates and assumptions are based on the Companys historical experience combined with managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Management also uses third party actuaries to assist in measuring the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans. If management used different estimates and assumptions regarding these plans, the funded status of the plans could vary significantly, and the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. See Note 15 in Item 8 for additional information. Income Taxes The Company frequently faces challenges from U.S. and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company records reserves for estimates of potential additional tax owed by the Company. As an example, a subsidiary of the Company received tax assessments in the amount of $665 million consisting of tax, penalty, and interest (adjusted for interest and variation in currency exchange rates) from the Brazilian Federal Revenue Service challenging the deductibility of commodity hedging losses incurred by the Company for tax years 2004, 2006 and 2007. The Company evaluated its tax position regarding these hedging transactions and concluded, based in part upon advice from Brazilian legal counsel, that it was appropriate to recognize the tax benefits of these deductions (See Note 13 in Item 8 for additional information). Deferred tax assets represent items to be used as tax deductions or credits in future tax returns, and the related tax benefit has already been recognized in the Companys income statement. The realization of the Companys deferred tax assets is dependent upon future taxable income in specific tax jurisdictions, the timing and amount of which are uncertain. The Company evaluates all available positive and negative evidence including estimated future reversals of existing temporary differences, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies, and recent financial results. Valuation allowances related to these deferred tax assets have been established to the extent the realization of the tax benefit is not likely. To the extent the Company were to favorably resolve matters for which accruals have been established or be required to pay amounts in excess of the aforementioned reserves, the Companys effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be impacted. Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and the Companys share of the undistributed earnings of affiliated corporate joint venture companies accounted for on the equity method amounting to approximately $8.2 billion at June 30, 2011, are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned factors may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and cash flows of the Companys assets in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its factories. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment, technology, and companies related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. Assets are written down after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these assets, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Goodwill and other intangible assets The Company accounts for its goodwill and other intangible assets in accordance with ASC Topic 350, Intangibles Goodwill and Other. Under this standard, goodwill and intangible assets deemed to have indefinite lives are not amortized but are subject to annual impairment tests. The Company evaluates goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year or whenever there are indicators that the carrying value of the assets may not be fully recoverable. Definite lived intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its impairment tests, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Valuation of Marketable Securities and Investments in Affiliates The Company classifies the majority of its marketable securities as available for sale and carries these securities at fair value. The Company applies the equity method for investments over which the Company has the ability to exercise significant influence. These investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings and are adjusted, where appropriate, for amortizable basis differences between the investment balance and the underlying net assets of the investee. For publicly traded securities, the fair value of the Companys investments is readily available based on quoted market prices. For non publicly traded securities, managements assessment of fair value is based on valuation methodologies including discounted cash flows and estimates of sales proceeds. In the event of a decline in fair value of an investment below carrying value, management is required to determine if the decline in fair value is other than temporary. In evaluating the nature of a decline in the fair value of an investment, management considers the market conditions, trends of earnings, discounted cash flows, trading volumes, and other key measures of the investment as well as the Companys ability and intent to hold the investment. When such a decline in value is deemed to be other than temporary, an impairment loss is recognized in the current period operating results to the extent of the decline. See Notes 5 and 6 in Item 8 for information regarding the Companys marketable securities and investments in affiliates. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these marketable securities, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in: commodity market prices as they relate to the Companys net commodity position, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and prices of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to factors such as changes in weather conditions, disease, plantings, government programs and policies, competition, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. The Company enters into derivative and non derivative contracts with the primary objective of managing the Companys exposure to adverse price movements in the agricultural commodities used for, and produced in, our business operations. The Company will also use exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the volatility of the relationship between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contracts defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company, from time to time, enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold or net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. The Companys commodity position consists of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, related purchase and sales contracts, energy and freight contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts including contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements, net of sales. The fair value of the Companys commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing all of the commodity positions at quoted market prices for the period, where available, or utilizing a close proxy. The Company has established metrics to monitor the amount of market risk exposure, which consist of volumetric limits, and value at risk (VaR) limits. VaR measures the potential loss, at a 95% confidence level, that could be incurred over a one year period. Volumetric limits are monitored daily and VaR calculations and sensitivity analysis are monitored weekly. In addition to measuring the hypothetical loss resulting from an adverse two standard deviation move in market prices (assuming no correlations) over a one year period using VaR, sensitivity analysis is performed measuring the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in market prices. The highest, lowest, and average weekly position for each of the last two years together with the market risk from a hypothetical 10% adverse price change is as follows: 2011 2010 Long/(Short) Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest position $ 2,388 $ 239 $ 738 $ 74 Lowest position 368 37 (183 ) (18 ) Average position 1,644 164 216 22 The change in fair value of the average position for 2011 compared to 2010 was principally the result of changes in average quantities underlying the weekly commodity position. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) Currencies The Company conducts its business in over 75 countries. For the majority of the Companys subsidiaries located outside the United States, the local currency is the functional currency. To reduce the risks associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, the Company enters into currency exchange contracts to minimize its foreign currency position related to transactions denominated primarily in Euro, British pound, Canadian dollar, and Brazilian real currencies. These currencies represent the major functional or local currencies in which recurring business transactions occur. The Company does not use currency exchange contracts as hedges against amounts permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The currency exchange contracts used are forward contracts, swaps with banks, exchange traded futures contracts, and over the counter options. The changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $8.2 billion at June 30, 2011, and $6.4 billion at June 30, 2010. This increase is due to the appreciation of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar and an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The potential loss in fair value, which would principally be recognized in Other Comprehensive Income, resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $837 million and $639 million for 2011 and 2010, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 50 basis points decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2011 2010 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 9,108 $ 7,700 Excess of fair value over carrying value 842 870 Market risk 333 289 The increase in fair value of long term debt in 2011 resulted principally from the issuance of $1.5 billion of 18 month floating rate notes in February 2011. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned factors may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and cash flows of the Companys assets in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its factories. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment, technology, and companies related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. Assets are written down after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these assets, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Goodwill and other intangible assets The Company accounts for its goodwill and other intangible assets in accordance with ASC Topic 350, Intangibles Goodwill and Other. Under this standard, goodwill and intangible assets deemed to have indefinite lives are not amortized but are subject to annual impairment tests. The Company evaluates goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year or whenever there are indicators that the carrying value of the assets may not be fully recoverable. Definite lived intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its impairment tests, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Valuation of Marketable Securities and Investments in Affiliates The Company classifies the majority of its marketable securities as available for sale and carries these securities at fair value. The Company applies the equity method for investments over which the Company has the ability to exercise significant influence. These investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings and are adjusted, where appropriate, for amortizable basis differences between the investment balance and the underlying net assets of the investee. For publicly traded securities, the fair value of the Companys investments is readily available based on quoted market prices. For non publicly traded securities, managements assessment of fair value is based on valuation methodologies including discounted cash flows and estimates of sales proceeds. In the event of a decline in fair value of an investment below carrying value, management is required to determine if the decline in fair value is other than temporary. In evaluating the nature of a decline in the fair value of an investment, management considers the market conditions, trends of earnings, discounted cash flows, trading volumes, and other key measures of the investment as well as the Companys ability and intent to hold the investment. When such a decline in value is deemed to be other than temporary, an impairment loss is recognized in the current period operating results to the extent of the decline. See Notes 5 and 6 in Item 8 for information regarding the Companys marketable securities and investments in affiliates. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these marketable securities, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in: commodity market prices as they relate to the Companys net commodity position, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and prices of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to factors such as changes in weather conditions, disease, plantings, government programs and policies, competition, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. The Company enters into derivative and non derivative contracts with the primary objective of managing the Companys exposure to adverse price movements in the agricultural commodities used for, and produced in, our business operations. The Company will also use exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the volatility of the relationship between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contracts defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company, from time to time, enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold or net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. The Companys commodity position consists of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, related purchase and sales contracts, energy and freight contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts including contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements, net of sales. The fair value of the Companys commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing all of the commodity positions at quoted market prices for the period, where available, or utilizing a close proxy. The Company has established metrics to monitor the amount of market risk exposure, which consist of volumetric limits, and value at risk (VaR) limits. VaR measures the potential loss, at a 95% confidence level, that could be incurred over a one year period. Volumetric limits are monitored daily and VaR calculations and sensitivity analysis are monitored weekly. In addition to measuring the hypothetical loss resulting from an adverse two standard deviation move in market prices (assuming no correlations) over a one year period using VaR, sensitivity analysis is performed measuring the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in market prices. The highest, lowest, and average weekly position for each of the last two years together with the market risk from a hypothetical 10% adverse price change is as follows: 2011 2010 Long/(Short) Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest position $ 2,388 $ 239 $ 738 $ 74 Lowest position 368 37 (183 ) (18 ) Average position 1,644 164 216 22 The change in fair value of the average position for 2011 compared to 2010 was principally the result of changes in average quantities underlying the weekly commodity position. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) Currencies The Company conducts its business in over 75 countries. For the majority of the Companys subsidiaries located outside the United States, the local currency is the functional currency. To reduce the risks associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, the Company enters into currency exchange contracts to minimize its foreign currency position related to transactions denominated primarily in Euro, British pound, Canadian dollar, and Brazilian real currencies. These currencies represent the major functional or local currencies in which recurring business transactions occur. The Company does not use currency exchange contracts as hedges against amounts permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The currency exchange contracts used are forward contracts, swaps with banks, exchange traded futures contracts, and over the counter options. The changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $8.2 billion at June 30, 2011, and $6.4 billion at June 30, 2010. This increase is due to the appreciation of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar and an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The potential loss in fair value, which would principally be recognized in Other Comprehensive Income, resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $837 million and $639 million for 2011 and 2010, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 50 basis points decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2011 2010 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 9,108 $ 7,700 Excess of fair value over carrying value 842 870 Market risk 333 289 The increase in fair value of long term debt in 2011 resulted principally from the issuance of $1.5 billion of 18 month floating rate notes in February 2011. 
 
