Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Company Overview This MD&A should be read in conjunction with the accompanying consolidated financial statements. The Company is principally engaged in procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. The Company uses its significant global asset base to originate and transport agricultural commodities, connecting to markets in more than 160 countries. The Company also processes corn, oilseeds, wheat and cocoa into products for food, animal feed, chemical and energy uses. The Company uses its global asset network, business acumen, and its relationships with suppliers and customers to efficiently connect the harvest to the home thereby generating returns for our shareholders, principally from margins earned on these activities. The Companys operations are organized, managed and classified into three reportable business segments: Oilseeds Processing, Corn Processing, and Agricultural Services. Each of these segments is organized based upon the nature of products and services offered. The Companys remaining operations are not reportable segments, as defined by the applicable accounting standard, and are classified as Other. During fiscal 2012, the Company reorganized and streamlined its business unit reporting structure and broadened management spans of control. Starting with this annual report on Form 10 K the Oilseeds Processing reportable segment includes cocoa processing operations while the Agricultural Services reportable segment includes wheat processing operations. The Corn Processing reportable segment, which includes sweeteners and starches and bioproducts, remains unchanged. The Companys remaining operations, which primarily include its financial business units, will continue to be classified as Other. Previously, cocoa and wheat processing operations were included in Other. Also, during fiscal 2012, the Company discontinued the allocation of interest expense from Corporate to the operating segments. Throughout this annual report on Form 10 K, prior periods have been reclassified to conform to current period segment presentation. The Oilseeds Processing segment includes global activities related to the origination, merchandising, crushing, and further processing of oilseeds such as soybeans and soft seeds (cottonseed, sunflower seed, canola, rapeseed, and flaxseed) into vegetable oils and protein meals. Oilseeds products produced and marketed by the Company include ingredients for the food, feed, energy, and industrial products industries. Crude vegetable oils produced by the segments crushing activities are sold as is or are further processed by refining, blending, bleaching, and deodorizing into salad oils. Salad oils are sold as is or are further processed by hydrogenating and or interesterifying into margarine, shortening, and other food products. Partially refined oils are used to produce biodiesel or are sold to other manufacturers for use in chemicals, paints, and other industrial products. Oilseed protein meals are principally sold to third parties to be used as ingredients in commercial livestock and poultry feeds. In Europe and South America, the Oilseeds Processing segment includes origination and merchandising activities as adjuncts to its oilseeds processing assets. These activities include a network of grain elevators, port facilities, and transportation assets used to buy, store, clean, and transport grains and oilseeds. The Oilseeds Processing segment produces natural health and nutrition products and other specialty food and feed ingredients. The Oilseeds Processing segment is a major supplier of peanuts and peanut derived ingredients to both the U.S. and export markets. In North America, cottonseed flour is produced and sold primarily to the pharmaceutical industry and cotton cellulose pulp is manufactured and sold to the chemical, paper, and filter markets. In South America, the Oilseeds Processing segment operates fertilizer blending facilities. The Oilseeds Processing segment also includes activities related to the procurement, transportation and processing of cocoa beans into cocoa liquor, cocoa butter, cocoa powder, chocolate, and various compounds in North America, South America, Europe, Asia, and Africa for the food processing industry. The Oilseeds Processing segment also includes the Companys share of the results of its equity investment in Wilmar and its share of results for its Stratas Foods LLC and Edible Oils Limited joint ventures. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) The Companys Corn Processing segment is engaged in corn wet milling and dry milling activities, with its asset base primarily located in the central part of the United States. The Corn Processing segment converts corn into sweeteners and starches, and bioproducts. Its products include ingredients used in the food and beverage industry including sweeteners, starch, syrup, glucose, and dextrose. Dextrose and starch are used by the Corn Processing segment as feedstocks for its bioproducts operations. By fermentation of dextrose, the Corn Processing segment produces alcohol, amino acids, and other specialty food and animal feed ingredients. Ethyl alcohol is produced by the Company for industrial use as ethanol or as beverage grade. Ethanol, in gasoline, increases octane and is used as an extender and oxygenate. Bioproducts also include amino acids such as lysine and threonine that are vital compounds used in swine feeds to produce leaner animals and in poultry feeds to enhance the speed and efficiency of poultry production. Corn gluten feed and meal, as well as distillers grains, are produced for use as animal feed ingredients. Corn germ, a by product of the wet milling process, is further processed into vegetable oil and protein meal. Other Corn Processing products include citric and lactic acids, lactates, sorbitol, xanthan gum, and glycols which are used in various food and industrial products. The Corn Processing segment includes the activities of a propylene and ethylene glycol facility and the Companys Brazilian sugarcane ethanol plant and related operations. In fiscal 2012, the Company ended its commercial alliance with Metabolix, Inc. As a result of this decision, Telles LLC, the sales and marketing commercial alliance created to commercialize Mirel, a bio based plastic, will be dissolved and the production of Mirel on behalf of Telles LLC has ended. This segment also includes the Companys share of the results of its equity investments in Almidones Mexicanos S.A., Eaststarch C.V., and Red Star Yeast Company LLC. The Agricultural Services segment utilizes its extensive U.S. grain elevator, global transportation network, and port operations to buy, store, clean, and transport agricultural commodities, such as oilseeds, corn, wheat, milo, oats, rice, and barley, and resells these commodities primarily as food and feed ingredients and as raw materials for the agricultural processing industry. Agricultural Services grain sourcing, handling, and transportation network provides reliable and efficient services to the Companys customers and agricultural processing operations. Agricultural Services transportation network capabilities include barge, ocean going vessel, truck, and rail freight services. Agricultural Services segment also includes the activities related to the processing of wheat into wheat flour, the processing and distribution of formula feeds, animal health and nutrition products, and the procurement, processing, and distribution of edible beans. The Agricultural Services segment includes the activities of Alfred C. Toepfer International, an 80% owned global merchant of agricultural commodities and processed products. The Agricultural Services segment also includes the Companys share of the results of its Kalama Export Company joint venture and its equity investment in Gruma S.A.B. de C.V. Other includes the Companys remaining operations, primarily its financial business units, related principally to futures commission merchant activities and captive insurance. On September 30, 2011, the Company sold a majority ownership interest of the Bank. The Bank was deconsolidated from the Companys consolidated financial statements in the first quarter of fiscal 2012 resulting in no material effect to ADMs earnings. The Company accounts for its remaining ownership interest in the Bank under the equity method. Corporate results principally include the impact of LIFO related inventory adjustments, unallocated corporate expenses, and interest cost net of investment income. Prior to January 1, 2012, Corporate results included the after tax elimination of income attributable to mandatorily redeemable interests in consolidated subsidiaries. Upon expiration of the put options related to these interests, the results were included in noncontrolling interest. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Operating Performance Indicators The Companys oilseeds processing and agricultural services operations are principally agricultural commodity based businesses where changes in selling prices move in relationship to changes in prices of the commodity based agricultural raw materials. Therefore, changes in agricultural commodity prices have relatively equal impacts on both net sales and other operating income and cost of products sold. Thus, changes in margins and gross profit of these businesses do not necessarily correspond to the changes in net sales and other operating income amounts. The Companys corn processing operations and certain other food and animal feed processing operations also utilize agricultural commodities (or products derived from agricultural commodities) as raw materials. In these operations, agricultural commodity market price changes can result in significant fluctuations in cost of products sold, and such price changes cannot necessarily be passed directly through to the selling price of the finished products. The Company has consolidated subsidiaries in over 75 countries. For the majority of the Companys subsidiaries located outside the United States, the local currency is the functional currency. Revenues and expenses denominated in foreign currencies are translated into U.S. dollars at the weighted average exchange rates for the applicable periods. For the majority of the Companys business activities in Brazil, the functional currency is the U.S. dollar; however, certain transactions, including taxes, occur in local currency and require conversion to the functional currency. Fluctuations in the exchange rates of foreign currencies, primarily the Euro, British pound, Canadian dollar, and Brazilian real, as compared to the U.S. dollar can result in corresponding fluctuations in the U.S. dollar value of revenues and expenses reported by the Company. The Company measures the performance of its business segments using key financial metrics such as segment operating profit, return on invested capital, and cost per metric ton. The Companys operating results can vary significantly due to changes in factors such as fluctuations in energy prices, weather conditions, crop plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand, general global economic conditions, changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. Due to these unpredictable factors, the Company does not provide forward looking information in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 2012 Compared to 2011 As an agricultural commodity based business, the Company is subject to a variety of market factors which affect the Companys operating results. From a demand perspective, global protein meal consumption has continued to grow although at a slower rate. Excess industry crushing production capacity has pressured oilseeds margins, and the Company has adjusted production rates regionally to balance supply with current market demand. Biodiesel markets supported global demand for refined and crude vegetable oils. In the U.S., high biodiesel inventories associated with the December 31, 2011, expiration of blenders incentives dampened margins in the second half of the fiscal year. U.S. corn sweetener exports continue to support sales volumes and margins. Ethanol sales volumes were supported by favorable gasoline blending economics in the U.S. However, excess industry production of ethanol, together with recently reduced U.S. ethanol export demand, have negatively impacted ethanol margins. From a supply perspective, crop supplies in certain key growing regions at the beginning of this fiscal year, including South America and the Black Sea region, were adequate, but a smaller than normal harvest in North America last fall resulted in low U.S. carryover stocks for corn and soybeans. Because of the smaller than expected current year South American harvest, global supplies of corn and soybeans are more dependent on this years North American harvest. While plantings of corn increased this year in the U.S., the drought conditions late in the fiscal year have decreased expectations for the size of the current year harvest. These factors, combined with concerns about the European debt situation and ongoing geopolitical uncertainties, contributed to volatile commodity market price movements during this fiscal year. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Net earnings attributable to controlling interests decreased $0.8 billion to $1.2 billion. Segment operating profit declined $1.6 billion to $2.5 billion amid more challenging conditions generally affecting all reportable segments. Segment operating profit in fiscal 2012 included $349 million of asset impairment charges and exit costs comprised of $335 million to exit the Companys Clinton, IA, bioplastics plant and $14 million to shut down its Walhalla, ND, ethanol dry mill. Earnings before income taxes included a credit of $10 million from the effect on LIFO inventory valuation reserves, including the liquidation of LIFO inventory layers, partially offset by increasing agricultural commodity prices, compared to charges of $368 million in the prior year. Fiscal 2012 unallocated corporate expenses included $71 million of charges related to the Companys global workforce reduction program. Income taxes decreased $0.5 billion due to lower earnings before income taxes and a lower effective income tax rate. The Companys effective income tax rate declined to 29.6% compared to 33.1% in the prior year primarily due to income tax benefits associated with foreign currency re measurement of non monetary assets partially offset by a geographic mix of earnings that shifted more to foreign jurisdictions. Analysis of Statements of Earnings Net sales and other operating income by segment are as follows: 2012 2011 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing and Origination $ 18,794 $ 16,518 $ 2,276 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel, and Other 11,628 9,476 2,152 Cocoa and Other 3,715 3,652 63 Asia 578 262 316 Total Oilseeds Processing 34,715 29,908 4,807 Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 4,793 3,766 1,027 Bioproducts 7,321 6,142 1,179 Total Corn Processing 12,114 9,908 2,206 Agricultural Services Merchandising and Handling 37,631 36,852 779 Transportation 269 222 47 Milling and Other 4,182 3,676 506 Total Agricultural Services 42,082 40,750 1,332 Other Financial 127 110 17 Total Other 127 110 17 Total $ 89,038 $ 80,676 $ 8,362 Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Net sales and other operating income increased $7.0 billion due to higher average selling prices, primarily related to higher underlying commodity costs, and $2.1 billion due to increased sales volumes, including sales volumes from acquisitions, partially offset by changes in foreign currency exchange rates of $0.7 billion. Oilseeds Processing sales increased 16% to $34.7 billion due principally to higher average selling prices of vegetable oils, merchandised commodities, protein meal, and biodiesel and increased sales volumes of biodiesel, protein meal, and peanuts, in part due to the acquisition of Golden Peanut in December 2010. Corn Processing sales increased 22% to $12.1 billion due principally to higher average selling prices of ethanol and sweeteners as well as higher sales volumes of sugar and ethanol. Agricultural Services sales increased 3% to $42.1 billion, due to higher average selling prices of corn and wheat flour partially offset by lower sales volumes, in part due to lower export volumes from the U.S. Cost of products sold increased 12% to $85.4 billion due principally to higher costs of agricultural commodities and, to a lesser extent, increased sales volumes. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates reduced current year cost of products sold by $0.7 billion. Manufacturing expenses increased $0.2 billion due to higher costs for maintenance, employee and benefit related expenses, energy, and chemicals. These higher costs were primarily due to higher production volumes, acquisitions, and higher unit costs for fuels and certain chemicals. Partially offsetting these higher costs was lower depreciation expense, in part due to the Companys change in estimated service lives for machinery and equipment during the second quarter of fiscal 2011. Selling, general, and administrative expenses remained steady at $1.6 billion. Loss provisions mainly due to an unfavorable arbitration award in the Companys Agricultural Services operating segment were partially offset by lower overhead expenses. Asset impairment, exit, and restructuring costs of $437 million were comprised of $349 million in the Corn Processing segment related to the Companys exit from its Clinton, IA, bioplastics business and ethanol dry mill in Walhalla, ND, $71 million in Corporate for the global workforce reduction, and $17 million in Corporate for investment writedown and other facility exit related costs. Interest expense decreased 9% to $441 million primarily due to lower long term debt balances, higher interest expense capitalized on construction projects in progress, and lower interest expense related to uncertain income tax positions. Equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates decreased 13% to $472 million principally due to decreased equity earnings from the Companys equity investee, Gruma, which included a $78 million gain in the prior year related to Grumas disposal of certain assets. Interest income declined 18% to $112 million primarily related to the sale and deconsolidation of the Bank, effective September 30, 2011. Other income net declined $113 million to $17 million due primarily to the absence of income recognized in the prior year period of $71 million for the Golden Peanut Gain and $30 million for gains on interest rate swaps. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Operating profit by segment is as follows: 2012 2011 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing and Origination $ 641 $ 925 $ (284 ) Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel, and Other 295 342 (47 ) Cocoa and Other 183 240 (57 ) Asia 183 183 Total Oilseeds Processing 1,302 1,690 (388 ) Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 335 330 5 Bioproducts (74 ) 749 (823 ) Total Corn Processing 261 1,079 (818 ) Agricultural Services Merchandising and Handling 493 807 (314 ) Transportation 125 117 8 Milling and Other 329 399 (70 ) Total Agricultural Services 947 1,323 (376 ) Other Financial 15 39 (24 ) Total Other 15 39 (24 ) Total Segment Operating Profit 2,525 4,131 (1,606 ) Corporate (see below) (760 ) (1,116 ) 356 Earnings Before Income Taxes $ 1,765 $ 3,015 $ (1,250 ) Corporate results are as follows: 2012 2011 Change (In millions) LIFO credit (charge) $ 10 $ (368 ) $ 378 Interest expense net (423 ) (445 ) 22 Unallocated corporate costs (360 ) (326 ) (34 ) Charges on early extinguishment of debt (4 ) (8 ) 4 Gains (losses) on interest rate swaps 30 (30 ) Other 17 1 16 Total Corporate $ (760 ) $ (1,116 ) $ 356 Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Oilseeds Processing operating profit decreased $0.4 billion to $1.3 billion. Crushing and Origination operating profit decreased $284 million to $641 million primarily due to weaker results in European softseeds, lower results in North American softseeds, and lower North American positioning results. Partially offsetting these lower results, were higher grain origination results in South America driven by higher volumes and favorable positioning. Poor European softseeds results were driven by a small prior year rapeseed crop, positioning losses, and weaker demand for protein meal and oils. North American softseed results declined primarily as a result of lower margins generated from a tight cottonseed supply. Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel, and Other results declined $47 million to $295 million due primarily to declines in biodiesel margins in South America and Europe and lower margins for specialty fats and oils in Europe. These declines were partially offset by improved North American protein specialties and natural health and nutrition results due to higher margins and volumes. Cocoa and Other results declined $57 million to $183 million. Current year results in Cocoa and Other were reduced by $100 million for net unrealized mark to market losses related to certain forward purchase and sales commitments accounted for as derivatives. Last year included $9 million of net unrealized mark to market losses. Excluding these timing effects, cocoa results improved in the current year driven by improved press margins caused by strong cocoa powder demand. The prior year included the $71 million Golden Peanut Gain which was partially offset this year by higher earnings in the Companys peanut business in part due to the first full year of consolidated results for Golden Peanut being reported by the Company in fiscal 2012. Asia results remained steady at $183 million, principally reflecting the Companys share of its results from equity investee, Wilmar. Corn Processing operating results decreased $818 million to $261 million due principally to poor ethanol margins and $349 million in asset impairment charges and exit costs. Excluding the asset impairment and exit costs related to the Companys bioplastics business and Walhalla, ND, ethanol dry grind facility, Corn Processing operating profit of $610 million in the current year represents a decline of $469 million compared to the prior year. Processed volumes were up 5 percent while net corn costs increased compared to last year. Sweeteners and Starches operating profit increased $5 million to $335 million, as higher average selling prices more than offset higher net corn costs. Bioproducts profit decreased $823 million to a loss of $74 million, including the $349 million asset impairment and exit charges. Lower ethanol margins were caused by excess supply as previously offline production restarted while industry demand declined, in part due to slowing export demand. Prior year bioproducts results were enhanced by favorable corn ownership positions, which lowered net corn costs in that period. Bioproducts results in the prior year were negatively impacted by startup costs of $94 million related to the Companys new dry grind ethanol, bioplastic, and glycol plants. Agricultural Services operating profits decreased $376 million to $947 million. Merchandising and Handling earnings decreased primarily due to lower results from U.S. operations. Lower sales volumes were principally the result of the relatively higher cost of U.S. grains and oilseeds in the global market due to lower stocks caused by a smaller U.S. harvest in 2011. This relatively weaker position led to reduced U.S. grain exports. In the prior year, Merchandising and Handling results were positively impacted by higher quantities of U.S. grain exports by the Company. In addition, fiscal 2012 included $40 million of increased loss provisions mainly due to an unfavorable arbitration award. Earnings from Transportation were steady. Last years operating results in Milling and Other operations included a $78 million gain related to Grumas disposal of certain assets. Other financial operating profit decreased $24 million to $15 million mainly due to higher loss provisions at the Companys captive insurance subsidiary related to property and crop risk reserves. Corporate expenses declined $356 million to $760 million this year. The effects of a liquidation of LIFO inventory layers partially offset by increasing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations resulted in a credit of $10 million in the current year compared to a charge of $368 million in the prior year primarily due to higher prices. Corporate interest expense decreased $22 million primarily due to lower interest expense on lower long term debt balances. Unallocated corporate costs include $71 million of costs related to the global workforce reduction program. Excluding these costs, unallocated corporate costs declined $37 million due primarily to lower administrative costs. Corporate other income increased due to higher investment income partially offset by $17 million for investment writedown and facility exit related costs. Also, in the prior year the Company recognized $30 million of gains on interest rate swaps. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) 2011 Compared to 2010 As an agricultural commodity based business, the Company is subject to a variety of market factors which affect the Companys operating results. In 2011, prices for certain agricultural commodities were higher in response to growing global demand and tighter crop supplies. The projections of lower 2011 carryover stocks for certain key commodities, coupled with regional crop supply dislocations for certain commodities, also led to high commodity price volatility. Global demand for agricultural commodities grew in 2011, resulting in increased sales volumes for most of the Companys products. The large 2010 North American harvest resulted in global merchandising, handling, and processing opportunities. Protein meal markets for commercial livestock producers in the U.S., particularly poultry producers, faced challenging conditions. Biodiesel markets in Europe and South America, together with the 2011 extension of the U.S. biodiesel blenders credit, helped support global demand for refined and crude vegetable oils. Sweeteners and starches demand remained strong in 2011 due primarily to U.S. exports of sweeteners and improved demand for industrial starches. Ethanol sales volumes, including increased volumes as the Companys new dry mills ramped up, were supported by favorable gasoline blending economics in the U.S. and good export demand. Net earnings increased $106 million to $2.0 billion due principally to a $794 million increase in segment operating profit partially offset by a negative impact from changing LIFO inventory valuations and higher income taxes. In 2011, the Company successfully managed through significant increases in market prices for most of its agricultural commodity raw materials, resulting in increased segment operating profit. Earnings before income taxes includes charges of $368 million from the effect of increasing agricultural commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuation reserves, compared to credits of $42 million in the prior year caused by decreasing agricultural commodity prices. Income taxes increased $331 million due to a higher effective income tax rate and higher earnings before income taxes. The effective income tax rate of 33.1% for 2011 was the result of changes in the geographic mix of earnings and unfavorable specific tax items. The fully diluted earnings per share calculation for 2011 was impacted by the completion of the Companys debt remarketing related to the $1.75 billion Equity Units. While the approximately 44 million new common shares related to the $1.75 billion Equity Units were not issued until June 1, 2011, the if converted method of accounting for diluted earnings per share required diluted EPS to be calculated as if the Company issued the shares on January 1, 2011, and this assumption resulted in a dilutive impact of $0.04 on earnings per share (See Note 11 in the accompanying consolidated financial statements). Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Analysis of Statements of Earnings Net sales and other operating income by segment are as follows: 2011 2010 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing and Origination $ 16,518 $ 14,411 $ 2,107 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel, and Other 9,476 7,133 2,343 Cocoa and Other 3,652 2,678 974 Asia 262 190 72 Total Oilseeds Processing 29,908 24,412 5,496 Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 3,766 3,264 502 Bioproducts 6,142 4,610 1,532 Total Corn Processing 9,908 7,874 2,034 Agricultural Services Merchandising and Handling 36,852 25,751 11,101 Transportation 222 167 55 Milling and Other 3,676 3,383 293 Total Agricultural Services 40,750 29,301 11,449 Other Financial 110 95 15 Total Other 110 95 15 Total $ 80,676 $ 61,682 $ 18,994 Net sales and other operating income increased $19.0 billion, or 31%, to $80.7 billion. Net sales and other operating income increased $14.2 billion due to higher average selling prices, primarily related to higher underlying commodity costs, and increased $4.8 billion due to increased sales volumes, including sales volumes from acquisitions. Agricultural Services sales increased 39% to $40.8 billion due to higher average selling prices of agricultural commodities and higher global sales volumes. Oilseeds Processing sales increased 23% to $29.9 billion primarily due to higher average selling prices for vegetable oils, soybeans, biodiesel, and protein meal. Corn Processing sales increased 26% to $9.9 billion due to higher average selling prices and increased sales volumes of ethanol and other corn products, in part due to the Companys two new ethanol dry mills coming on line. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Cost of products sold increased 32% to $76.4 billion due to higher costs of agricultural commodities, negative impacts resulting from changes in LIFO inventory valuations, and higher manufacturing costs. Cost of products sold includes charges of $368 million from the effect of increasing agricultural commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuation reserves, compared to credits of $42 million in the prior year caused by decreasing agricultural commodity prices. Manufacturing expenses increased $410 million due primarily to higher processed volumes, including the volumes of the Companys new greenfield operations coming on line, and higher average unit costs for certain chemicals and fuels used in the Companys processing and transportation operations. During the second quarter of fiscal 2011, the Company updated its estimates for service lives of certain of its machinery and equipment assets. This change in estimate resulted in a $133 million decrease in depreciation expense compared to the amount of depreciation expense the Company would have recorded using the previously estimated service lives. Manufacturing expenses included $94 million in fiscal 2011 related to the start up of new plants compared to $110 million in the prior year. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased 15% to $1.6 billion. This increase was due to higher employee related costs and higher administrative expenses. Higher employee related costs principally reflect the increase in number of employees during the year and included higher salaries and wages, higher accruals for performance based compensation and higher benefit expenses. Equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates declined 3% to $542 million. The decline in earnings from the Companys equity investee, Wilmar, was partially offset by higher earnings of the Companys equity investee, Gruma, in part due to a gain on Grumas disposition of certain assets. Interest income increased 8% to $136 million principally resulting from higher interest earned on advances to affiliates. Interest expense increased 14% to $482 million. Interest costs capitalized as a component of major construction projects in progress was $7 million compared to $75 million in the prior year. Interest incurred on long term debt declined $24 million as a result of debt retirements while interest incurred on short term debt increased $15 million due to higher average borrowings driven by higher working capital requirements. Other (income) expense net increased $255 million primarily due to the $71 million gain resulting from the revaluation of the Companys previously held equity interest in Golden Peanut upon acquisition of the remaining 50% interest, gains on interest rate swaps of $30 million compared to a loss of $59 million in the prior year, and a decrease in charges related to early extinguishment of debt from $75 million in the prior year to $15 million in the current year. Income taxes increased $331 million to $997 million due to a higher effective income tax rate and higher pretax earnings. The Companys effective income tax rate increased to 33.1% during 2011 compared to 25.8% in fiscal 2010. The increase in the 2011 rate was primarily due to a geographic mix of earnings that shifted more to the U.S., a higher U.S. effective income tax rate, income tax expense associated with foreign currency re measurement of non monetary assets in Brazil, and adjustments to deferred income tax balances. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Operating profit by segment is as follows: 2011 2010 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing and Origination $ 925 $ 834 $ 91 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel, and Other 342 300 42 Cocoa and Other 240 126 114 Asia 183 291 (108 ) Total Oilseeds Processing 1,690 1,551 139 Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 330 538 (208 ) Bioproducts 749 200 549 Total Corn Processing 1,079 738 341 Agricultural Services Merchandising and Handling 807 562 245 Transportation 117 96 21 Milling and Other 399 344 55 Total Agricultural Services 1,323 1,002 321 Other Financial 39 46 (7 ) Total Other 39 46 (7 ) Total Segment Operating Profit 4,131 3,337 794 Corporate (see below) (1,116 ) (752 ) (364 ) Earnings Before Income Taxes $ 3,015 $ 2,585 $ 430 Corporate results are as follows: 2011 2010 Change (In millions) LIFO credit $ (368 ) $ 42 $ (410 ) Interest expense net (445 ) (381 ) (64 ) Unallocated corporate costs (326 ) (266 ) (60 ) Charges on early extinguishment of debt (8 ) (75 ) 67 Gains (losses) on interest rate swaps 30 (59 ) 89 Other 1 (13 ) 14 Total Corporate $ (1,116 ) $ (752 ) $ (364 ) Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Oilseeds Processing operating profit increased 9% to $1.7 billion. Crushing and Origination results increased $91 million to $925 million. Improved North American crushing results, particularly for cotton seed and canola, were partially offset by lower crushing margins in South America and Europe. Margins globally were enhanced by good positioning and by improved origination results. In South America, fertilizer results improved due to higher margins and volumes. Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel and Other results increased $42 million to $342 million due principally to higher packaged oils margins and improved North American and European biodiesel results. Cocoa and Other results increased $114 million to $240 million primarily due to the $71 million gain on the revaluation of the Companys equity interest in Golden Peanut and higher peanut profits as a result of the December 31, 2010 acquisition of the remaining 50% interest of Golden Peanut. Asia results decreased $108 million due principally to decreased earnings from the Companys equity investee, Wilmar. Corn Processing operating profit increased 46% to $1.1 billion, which includes favorable impacts from ownership positions, which were allocated to sweeteners and starches and bioproducts based on total grind. Sweeteners and Starches operating profit decreased $208 million to $330 million due to higher net corn costs partially offset by higher sales volumes. Sales volumes increased due to U.S. export shipments of sweeteners and improved U.S. demand for industrial starches. Bioproducts operating profit improved $549 million primarily due to higher ethanol sales volumes and higher average selling prices leading to increased ethanol and lysine margins. Bioproducts margins were also enhanced by favorable corn ownership positions. Bioproducts results included startup costs related to the Companys new plants of $94 million in 2011 compared to $107 million in the prior year. Agricultural Services operating profit increased 32% to $1.3 billion. Merchandising and Handling results increased due to higher corn and wheat sales volumes and higher margins. A large 2010 U.S. harvest combined with strong international demand resulted in higher U.S. export shipments. Merchandising and Handling results in 2011 included an insurance recovery of $67 million related to property damage and business interruption resulting from an October 2008 explosion at the Companys Destrehan, LA, export facility. International merchandising results were weaker in part due to positions impacted by unexpected shifts in crop supply caused by weather conditions and government actions in the Black Sea region. Transportation results increased $21 million to $117 million primarily due to higher barge freight rates and higher barge utilization levels, in part due to higher U.S. export volumes. Milling and Other results improved due principally to increased equity earnings from the Companys equity investee, Gruma which include a $78 million gain related to Grumas disposal of certain assets. Other financial operating profit decreased 15% to $39 million primarily due to higher captive insurance loss provisions principally related to a $67 million loss related to the Companys Destrehan, LA, export facility insurance claim. Corporate results decreased $364 million primarily due to the negative impact from changing LIFO inventory valuations and higher interest expense net. The effects of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory reserves resulted in charges of $368 million compared to credits of $42 million for the prior year. Corporate interest expense increased $64 million mostly due to lower capitalization of interest costs for construction projects in progress. Partially offsetting the higher LIFO and interest costs were $30 million of gains on interest rate swaps compared to prior year losses on interest rate swaps of $59 million. In addition, 2010 included charges of $75 million on early debt extinguishment compared to $8 million of similar charges in 2011. Liquidity and Capital Resources A Company objective is to have sufficient liquidity, balance sheet strength, and financial flexibility to fund the operating and capital requirements of a capital intensive agricultural commodity based business. The primary source of funds to finance the Companys operations and capital expenditures is cash generated by operations and lines of credit, including a commercial paper borrowing facility. In addition, the Company believes it has access to funds from public and private equity and debt capital markets in both U.S. and international markets. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Cash provided by operating activities was $2.9 billion for the year compared to cash used in operating activities of $2.3 billion last year. Working capital decreased $0.3 billion since the beginning of fiscal 2012 due principally to the $1.0 billion account receivable securitization program discussed below. In fiscal 2011 working capital increased $5.2 billion due principally to higher agricultural commodity prices. Cash used in investing activities was $1.1 billion for the year compared to a $1.7 billion use last year. Capital expenditures were $1.5 billion for the year compared to $1.2 billion last year. The Company spent approximately $0.2 billion on acquisitions in fiscal 2012 and 2011. Related to the sale of the majority interest in Hickory Point Bank, the Company reduced its holdings of marketable securities generating cash of $0.3 billion and divested cash of $0.1 billion as a result of the deconsolidation. In fiscal 2011, net purchases of marketable securities used $0.3 billion of cash. Cash used in financing activities was $1.1 billion for the year compared to cash provided by financing activities of $3.6 billion last year. In fiscal 2012, the Company returned nearly $1.0 billion to shareholders in the form of dividends and share repurchases, including the acquisition of 18.4 million of its common shares for $0.5 billion. In fiscal 2011 net borrowings increased primarily to fund higher working capital. Short term borrowings increased due principally to higher commercial paper borrowings, and long term borrowings increased primarily as a result of the issuance of $1.5 billion of 18 month floating rate notes in February 2011. In addition the Company issued 44 million shares of common stock and received $1.75 billion in fiscal 2011 under the forward stock purchase component of the Companys Equity Units (see Note 10 in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data). At June 30, 2012, the Company had $1.5 billion of cash, cash equivalents, and short term marketable securities and a current ratio, defined as current assets divided by current liabilities, of 1.8 to 1. Included in working capital is $7.8 billion of readily marketable commodity inventories. At June 30, 2012, the Companys capital resources included net worth of $18.2 billion and lines of credit totaling $6.5 billion, of which $4.4 billion was unused. The Companys ratio of long term debt to total capital (the sum of the Companys long term debt and shareholders equity) was 26% at June 30, 2012 and 30% at June 30, 2011. This ratio is a measure of the Companys long term indebtedness and is an indicator of financial flexibility. Of the Companys total lines of credit, $4.3 billion support a commercial paper borrowing facility, against which there were $1.3 billion of commercial paper outstanding at June 30, 2012. In August 2012, the Company added a $2.0 billion credit facility which will support commercial paper borrowings. On March 27, 2012, the Company entered into an amendment of its accounts receivable securitization program (as amended, the Program) with certain commercial paper conduit purchasers and committed purchasers (collectively, the Purchasers). The Program provides the Company with up to $1.0 billion in funding against accounts receivable transferred into the Program and expands the Companys access to liquidity through efficient use of its balance sheet assets. Under the Program, certain U.S. originated trade accounts receivable are sold to a wholly owned bankruptcy remote entity, ADM Receivables, LLC (ADM Receivables). ADM Receivables in turn transfers such purchased accounts receivable in their entirety to the Purchasers pursuant to a receivables purchase agreement. In exchange for the transfer of the accounts receivable, ADM Receivables receives a cash payment of up to $1.0 billion and an additional amount upon the collection of the accounts receivable (deferred consideration). ADM Receivables uses the cash proceeds from the transfer of receivables to the Purchasers and other consideration to finance the purchase of receivables from the Company and the ADM subsidiaries originating the receivables. The Company acts as master servicer, responsible for servicing and collecting the accounts receivable under the Program. The Program terminates on June 28, 2013 (see Note 20 for more information and disclosures on the Program). As of June 30, 2012, the fair value of trade receivables transferred to the Purchasers under the Program and derecognized from the Companys consolidated balance sheet was $1.6 billion. In exchange for the transfer, the Company received cash of $1.0 billion and recorded a receivable for deferred consideration included in other current assets. The Company has outstanding $1.4 billion principal amount of floating rate notes due on August 13, 2012. Interest on the notes accrues at a floating rate three month LIBOR reset quarterly plus 0.16% and is paid quarterly. As of June 30, 2012, the interest rate on the notes was 0.63%. In August 2012, the Company paid these notes with funds available from short term borrowings. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) The Company has outstanding $1.15 billion principal amount of convertible senior notes. As of June 30, 2012, none of the conditions permitting conversion of these notes had been satisfied. The Company has purchased call options and warrants intended to reduce the potential shareholder dilution upon future conversion of the notes. As of June 30, 2012, the market price of the Companys common stock was not greater than the exercise price of the purchased call options or warrants related to the convertible senior notes. The Company is currently experiencing generally higher prices for agricultural commodities as a result of tightening crop supplies, mostly due to weather impacts on current year U.S. corn and soybean crop production. Higher prices of commodities have historically correlated with increases in the Companys working capital requirements. The Company depends on access to credit markets, which can be impacted by its credit rating and factors outside of the Companys control, such as the European debt situation, to fund its working capital needs and capital expenditures. The Company expects capital expenditures to range from $0.5 billion to $0.6 billion for the upcoming 6 month period ending December 31, 2012. On November 5, 2009, the Companys Board of Directors approved a stock repurchase program authorizing the Company to repurchase up to 100,000,000 shares of the Companys common stock during the period commencing January 1, 2010 and ending December 31, 2014. The Company has acquired approximately 31.6 million shares under this program, resulting in remaining approval to acquire 68.4 million shares. The Companys credit facilities and certain debentures require the Company to comply with specified financial and non financial covenants including maintenance of minimum tangible net worth as well as limitations related to incurring liens, secured debt, and certain other financing arrangements. The Company is in compliance with these covenants as of June 30, 2012. Contractual Obligations In the normal course of business, the Company enters into contracts and commitments which obligate the Company to make payments in the future. The following table sets forth the Companys significant future obligations by time period. Purchases include commodity based contracts entered into in the normal course of business, which are further described in Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, energy related purchase contracts entered into in the normal course of business, and other purchase obligations related to the Companys normal business activities. The following table does not include unrecognized income tax benefits of $80 million as of June 30, 2012 as the Company is unable to reasonably estimate the timing of settlement. Where applicable, information included in the Companys consolidated financial statements and notes is cross referenced in this table. Payments Due by Period Contractual Item 8 Note Less than 1 3 3 5 More than Obligations Reference Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years (In millions) Purchases Inventories $ 17,724 $ 17,307 $ 211 $ 130 $ 76 Energy 866 390 233 87 156 Other 242 145 86 10 1 Total purchases 18,832 17,842 530 227 233 Short term debt 2,108 2,108 Long term debt Note 10 8,212 1,677 1,114 320 5,101 Estimated interest payments 6,688 374 650 636 5,028 Operating leases Note 16 1,135 244 365 263 263 Estimated pension and other postretirement plan contributions (1) Note 17 188 64 23 25 76 Total $ 37,163 $ 22,309 $ 2,682 $ 1,471 $ 10,701 (1) Includes pension contributions of $53 million for fiscal 2013. The Company is unable to estimate the amount of pension contributions beyond fiscal year 2013. For more information concerning the Companys pension and other postretirement plans, see Note 17 in Item 8. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) At June 30, 2012, the Company estimates it will spend approximately $2.1 billion through calendar year 2015 to complete currently approved capital projects which are not included in the table above. The Company also has outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds of $644 million at June 30, 2012. In addition, the Company has entered into agreements, primarily debt guarantee agreements related to equity method investees, which could obligate the Company to make future payments. The Companys liability under these agreements arises only if the primary entity fails to perform its contractual obligation. The Company has collateral for a portion of these contingent obligations. At June 30, 2012, these contingent obligations totaled approximately $30 million. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements On March 27, 2012, the Company entered into an amendment of its accounts receivable securitization program (as amended, the Program) with certain commercial paper conduit purchasers and committed purchasers (collectively, the Purchasers). Under the Program, certain U.S. originated trade accounts receivable are sold to a wholly owned bankruptcy remote entity, ADM Receivables, LLC (ADM Receivables). ADM Receivables in turn transfers such purchased accounts receivable in their entirety to the Purchasers pursuant to a receivables purchase agreement. In exchange for the transfer of the accounts receivable, ADM Receivables receives a cash payment of up to $1.0 billion and an additional amount upon the collection of the accounts receivable (deferred consideration). ADM Receivables uses the cash proceeds from the transfer of receivables to the Purchasers and other consideration to finance the purchase of receivables from the Company and the ADM subsidiaries originating the receivables. The Company accounts for these transfers as sales. The Company has no retained interests in the transferred receivables, other than collection and administrative responsibilities and its right to the deferred consideration. At June 30, 2012, the Company did not record a servicing asset or liability related to its retained responsibility, based on its assessment of the servicing fee, market values for similar transactions and its cost of servicing the receivables sold. The Program terminates on June 28, 2013. As of June 30, 2012, the fair value of trade receivables transferred to the Purchasers under the Program and derecognized from the Companys consolidated balance sheet was $1.6 billion. In exchange for the transfer, the Company received cash of $1.0 billion and recorded a receivable for deferred consideration included in other current assets. Cash collections from customers on receivables sold were $8.9 billion for the four months ended June 30, 2012. Of this amount, $8.9 billion pertains to cash collections on the deferred consideration. Deferred consideration is paid to the Company in cash on behalf of the Purchasers as receivables are collected; however, as this is a revolving facility, cash collected from the Companys customers is reinvested by the Purchasers daily in new receivable purchases under the Program. The Companys risk of loss following the transfer of accounts receivable under the Program is limited to the deferred consideration outstanding, which is classified as other current assets and was $0.6 billion at June 30, 2012. The Company carries the deferred consideration at fair value determined by calculating the expected amount of cash to be received and is principally based on observable inputs (a Level 2 measurement under ASC 820) consisting mainly of the face amount of the receivables adjusted for anticipated credit losses and discounted at the appropriate market rate. Payment of deferred consideration is not subject to significant risks other than delinquencies and credit losses on accounts receivable transferred under the program which have historically been insignificant. Transfers of receivables under the Program during the year ended June 30, 2012 resulted in an expense for the loss on sale of $4 million which is classified as selling, general, and administrative expenses in the consolidated statements of earnings. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Critical Accounting Policies The process of preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the carrying values of the Companys assets and liabilities as well as the recognition of revenues and expenses. These estimates and judgments are based on the Companys historical experience and managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Certain of the Companys accounting policies are considered critical, as these policies are important to the depiction of the Companys financial statements and require significant or complex judgment by management. Management has discussed with the Companys Audit Committee the development, selection, disclosure, and application of these critical accounting policies. Following are the accounting policies management considers critical to the Companys financial statements. Fair Value Measurements Inventories and Derivatives Certain of the Companys assets and liabilities as of June 30, 2012 are valued at estimated fair values, including $6.8 billion of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, $3.1 billion of derivative assets, $3.0 billion of derivative liabilities, and $0.3 billion of inventory related payables. Derivative assets and liabilities include forward fixed price purchase and sale contracts for agricultural commodities, forward foreign exchange contracts, and over the counter instruments such as options contracts. The merchandisable agricultural commodities are freely traded, have quoted market prices, and may be sold without significant additional processing. Management estimates fair value for its commodity related assets and liabilities based on exchange quoted prices, adjusted for differences in local markets. The Companys fair value measurements are mainly based on observable market quotations without significant adjustments and are therefore reported as Level 1 or Level 2 within the fair value hierarchy. Level 3 fair value measurements represent fair value estimates where unobservable price components represent 10% or more of the total fair value price. For more information concerning amounts reported as Level 3, see Note 3 in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Changes in the market values of these inventories and contracts are recognized in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. If management used different methods or factors to estimate market value, amounts reported as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. Additionally, if market conditions change subsequent to year end, amounts reported in future periods as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. Derivatives Designated Hedging Activities The Company, from time to time, uses derivative contracts designated as cash flow hedges to fix the purchase price of anticipated volumes of commodities to be purchased and processed in a future month, to fix the purchase price of the Companys anticipated natural gas requirements for certain production facilities, and to fix the sales price of anticipated volumes of ethanol. These designated hedging programs principally relate to the Companys Corn Processing operating segment. The change in the market value of such derivative contracts has historically been, and is expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold and net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. If it is determined that the derivative instruments used are no longer effective at offsetting changes in the price of the hedged item, then the changes in the market value of these exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts would be recorded immediately in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. See Note 4 in Item 8 for additional information. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Investments in Affiliates The Company applies the equity method of accounting for investments over which the Company has the ability to exercise significant influence, including its 16.4% investment in Wilmar. These investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings and are adjusted, where appropriate, for amortizable basis differences between the investment balance and the underlying net assets of the investee. Generally, the minimum ownership threshold for asserting significant influence is 20% ownership of the investee. However, the Company considers all relevant factors in determining its ability to assert significant influence including but not limited to, ownership percentage, board membership, customer and vendor relationships, and other arrangements. If management used a different accounting method for these investments, then the amount of earnings from affiliates the Company recognizes may differ. Income Taxes The Company frequently faces challenges from U.S. and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company records reserves for estimates of potential additional tax owed by the Company. As an example, a subsidiary of the Company received tax assessments in the amount of $570 million consisting of tax, penalty, and interest (adjusted for interest and variation in currency exchange rates) from the Brazilian Federal Revenue Service challenging the deductibility of commodity hedging losses incurred by the Company for tax years 2004, 2006 and 2007. The Company evaluated its tax position regarding these hedging transactions and concluded, based in part upon advice from Brazilian legal counsel, that it was appropriate to recognize the tax benefits of these deductions (see Note 15 in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for additional information). Deferred tax assets represent items to be used as tax deductions or credits in future tax returns, and the related tax benefit has already been recognized in the Companys income statement. The realization of the Companys deferred tax assets is dependent upon future taxable income in specific tax jurisdictions, the timing and amount of which are uncertain. The Company evaluates all available positive and negative evidence including estimated future reversals of existing temporary differences, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies, and recent financial results. Valuation allowances related to these deferred tax assets have been established to the extent the realization of the tax benefit is not likely. To the extent the Company were to favorably resolve matters for which accruals have been established or be required to pay amounts in excess of the aforementioned reserves, the Companys effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be impacted. Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and the Companys share of the undistributed earnings of affiliated corporate joint venture companies accounted for on the equity method amounting to approximately $7.2 billion at June 30, 2012, are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Property, Plant, and Equipment and Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand, changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned factors may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and cash flows of the Companys assets in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its facilities. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment, technology, and companies related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. Assets are written down after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these assets, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. During 2012, 2011, and 2010, impairment charges were $367 million, $2 million, and $9 million, respectively (see Note 19 for additional information on charges taken in 2012). Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets Goodwill and intangible assets deemed to have indefinite lives are not amortized but are subject to annual impairment tests. The Company evaluates goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year or whenever there are indicators that the carrying value of the assets may not be fully recoverable. Definite lived intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives and are reviewed for impairment whenever there are indicators that the carrying value of the assets may not be fully recoverable. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its impairment tests, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Employee Benefit Plans The Company provides substantially all U.S. employees and employees at certain international subsidiaries with pension benefits. Eligible U.S. employees with five or more years of service prior to January 1, 2009 participate in a defined benefit pension plan. Eligible U.S. employees hired on or after January 1, 2009 (and eligible salaried employees with less than five years of service prior to January 1, 2009) participate in a cash balance pension formula. The Company provides eligible U.S. employees who retire under qualifying conditions with access to postretirement health care, at full cost to the retiree (certain employees are grandfathered into subsidized coverage). In order to measure the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans, management makes several estimates and assumptions, including interest rates used to discount certain liabilities, rates of return on assets set aside to fund these plans, rates of compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and anticipated future health care costs. These estimates and assumptions are based on the Companys historical experience combined with managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Management also uses third party actuaries to assist in measuring the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans. If management used different estimates and assumptions regarding these plans, the funded status of the plans could vary significantly, and the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. See Note 17 in Item 8 for additional information. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in: commodity market prices as they relate to the Companys net commodity position, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and prices of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to factors such as changes in weather conditions, crop disease, plantings, government programs and policies, competition, changes in global demand, changes in customer preferences and standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. The Company manages its exposure to adverse price movements of agricultural commodities used for, and produced in, its business operations, by entering into derivative and non derivative contracts which reduce the Companys overall short or long commodity position. Additionally, the Company uses exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the correlation between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contract defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company, from time to time, enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed designated hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold or net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. The Companys commodity position consists of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, related purchase and sales contracts, energy and freight contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts including contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements, net of sales. The fair value of the Companys commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing all of the commodity positions at quoted market prices for the period, where available, or utilizing a close proxy. The Company has established metrics to monitor the amount of market risk exposure, which consist of volumetric limits, and value at risk (VaR) limits. VaR measures the potential loss, at a 95% confidence level, that could be incurred over a one year period. Volumetric limits are monitored daily and VaR calculations and sensitivity analysis are monitored weekly. In addition to measuring the hypothetical loss resulting from an adverse two standard deviation move in market prices (assuming no correlations) over a one year period using VaR, sensitivity analysis is performed measuring the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in market prices. The highest, lowest, and average weekly position for each of the last two years together with the market risk from a hypothetical 10% adverse price change is as follows: 2012 2011 Long/(Short) Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest position $ 1,477 $ 148 $ 2,388 $ 239 Lowest position (383 ) (38 ) 368 37 Average position 546 55 1,644 164 The decline in fair value of the average position for 2012 compared to 2011 was principally the result of the decline in average quantities underlying the weekly commodity position. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) Currencies The Company has consolidated subsidiaries in over 75 countries. For the majority of the Companys subsidiaries located outside the United States, the local currency is the functional currency. To reduce the risks associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, the Company enters into currency exchange contracts to minimize its foreign currency position related to transactions denominated primarily in Euro, British pound, Canadian dollar, and Brazilian real currencies. These currencies represent the major functional or local currencies in which recurring business transactions occur. The Company does not use currency exchange contracts as hedges against amounts permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The currency exchange contracts used are forward contracts, swaps with banks, exchange traded futures contracts, and over the counter options. The changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $7.2 billion at June 30, 2012, and $8.2 billion at June 30, 2011. This decrease is due to the depreciation of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar partially offset by an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The potential loss in fair value, which would principally be recognized in Other Comprehensive Income, resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $722 million and $823 million for 2012 and 2011, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 50 basis points decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2012 2011 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 8,057 $ 9,108 Excess of fair value over carrying value 1,522 842 Market risk 422 333 The decrease in fair value of long term debt in 2012 resulted principally from the reclassification of $1.5 billion in floating rate notes to short term debt partially offset by decreased interest rates. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) The Companys Corn Processing segment is engaged in corn wet milling and dry milling activities, with its asset base primarily located in the central part of the United States. The Corn Processing segment converts corn into sweeteners and starches, and bioproducts. Its products include ingredients used in the food and beverage industry including sweeteners, starch, syrup, glucose, and dextrose. Dextrose and starch are used by the Corn Processing segment as feedstocks for its bioproducts operations. By fermentation of dextrose, the Corn Processing segment produces alcohol, amino acids, and other specialty food and animal feed ingredients. Ethyl alcohol is produced by the Company for industrial use as ethanol or as beverage grade. Ethanol, in gasoline, increases octane and is used as an extender and oxygenate. Bioproducts also include amino acids such as lysine and threonine that are vital compounds used in swine feeds to produce leaner animals and in poultry feeds to enhance the speed and efficiency of poultry production. Corn gluten feed and meal, as well as distillers grains, are produced for use as animal feed ingredients. Corn germ, a by product of the wet milling process, is further processed into vegetable oil and protein meal. Other Corn Processing products include citric and lactic acids, lactates, sorbitol, xanthan gum, and glycols which are used in various food and industrial products. The Corn Processing segment includes the activities of a propylene and ethylene glycol facility and the Companys Brazilian sugarcane ethanol plant and related operations. In fiscal 2012, the Company ended its commercial alliance with Metabolix, Inc. As a result of this decision, Telles LLC, the sales and marketing commercial alliance created to commercialize Mirel, a bio based plastic, will be dissolved and the production of Mirel on behalf of Telles LLC has ended. This segment also includes the Companys share of the results of its equity investments in Almidones Mexicanos S.A., Eaststarch C.V., and Red Star Yeast Company LLC. The Agricultural Services segment utilizes its extensive U.S. grain elevator, global transportation network, and port operations to buy, store, clean, and transport agricultural commodities, such as oilseeds, corn, wheat, milo, oats, rice, and barley, and resells these commodities primarily as food and feed ingredients and as raw materials for the agricultural processing industry. Agricultural Services grain sourcing, handling, and transportation network provides reliable and efficient services to the Companys customers and agricultural processing operations. Agricultural Services transportation network capabilities include barge, ocean going vessel, truck, and rail freight services. Agricultural Services segment also includes the activities related to the processing of wheat into wheat flour, the processing and distribution of formula feeds, animal health and nutrition products, and the procurement, processing, and distribution of edible beans. The Agricultural Services segment includes the activities of Alfred C. Toepfer International, an 80% owned global merchant of agricultural commodities and processed products. The Agricultural Services segment also includes the Companys share of the results of its Kalama Export Company joint venture and its equity investment in Gruma S.A.B. de C.V. Other includes the Companys remaining operations, primarily its financial business units, related principally to futures commission merchant activities and captive insurance. On September 30, 2011, the Company sold a majority ownership interest of the Bank. The Bank was deconsolidated from the Companys consolidated financial statements in the first quarter of fiscal 2012 resulting in no material effect to ADMs earnings. The Company accounts for its remaining ownership interest in the Bank under the equity method. Corporate results principally include the impact of LIFO related inventory adjustments, unallocated corporate expenses, and interest cost net of investment income. Prior to January 1, 2012, Corporate results included the after tax elimination of income attributable to mandatorily redeemable interests in consolidated subsidiaries. Upon expiration of the put options related to these interests, the results were included in noncontrolling interest. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Operating Performance Indicators The Companys oilseeds processing and agricultural services operations are principally agricultural commodity based businesses where changes in selling prices move in relationship to changes in prices of the commodity based agricultural raw materials. Therefore, changes in agricultural commodity prices have relatively equal impacts on both net sales and other operating income and cost of products sold. Thus, changes in margins and gross profit of these businesses do not necessarily correspond to the changes in net sales and other operating income amounts. The Companys corn processing operations and certain other food and animal feed processing operations also utilize agricultural commodities (or products derived from agricultural commodities) as raw materials. In these operations, agricultural commodity market price changes can result in significant fluctuations in cost of products sold, and such price changes cannot necessarily be passed directly through to the selling price of the finished products. The Company has consolidated subsidiaries in over 75 countries. For the majority of the Companys subsidiaries located outside the United States, the local currency is the functional currency. Revenues and expenses denominated in foreign currencies are translated into U.S. dollars at the weighted average exchange rates for the applicable periods. For the majority of the Companys business activities in Brazil, the functional currency is the U.S. dollar; however, certain transactions, including taxes, occur in local currency and require conversion to the functional currency. Fluctuations in the exchange rates of foreign currencies, primarily the Euro, British pound, Canadian dollar, and Brazilian real, as compared to the U.S. dollar can result in corresponding fluctuations in the U.S. dollar value of revenues and expenses reported by the Company. The Company measures the performance of its business segments using key financial metrics such as segment operating profit, return on invested capital, and cost per metric ton. The Companys operating results can vary significantly due to changes in factors such as fluctuations in energy prices, weather conditions, crop plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand, general global economic conditions, changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. Due to these unpredictable factors, the Company does not provide forward looking information in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 2012 Compared to 2011 As an agricultural commodity based business, the Company is subject to a variety of market factors which affect the Companys operating results. From a demand perspective, global protein meal consumption has continued to grow although at a slower rate. Excess industry crushing production capacity has pressured oilseeds margins, and the Company has adjusted production rates regionally to balance supply with current market demand. Biodiesel markets supported global demand for refined and crude vegetable oils. In the U.S., high biodiesel inventories associated with the December 31, 2011, expiration of blenders incentives dampened margins in the second half of the fiscal year. U.S. corn sweetener exports continue to support sales volumes and margins. Ethanol sales volumes were supported by favorable gasoline blending economics in the U.S. However, excess industry production of ethanol, together with recently reduced U.S. ethanol export demand, have negatively impacted ethanol margins. From a supply perspective, crop supplies in certain key growing regions at the beginning of this fiscal year, including South America and the Black Sea region, were adequate, but a smaller than normal harvest in North America last fall resulted in low U.S. carryover stocks for corn and soybeans. Because of the smaller than expected current year South American harvest, global supplies of corn and soybeans are more dependent on this years North American harvest. While plantings of corn increased this year in the U.S., the drought conditions late in the fiscal year have decreased expectations for the size of the current year harvest. These factors, combined with concerns about the European debt situation and ongoing geopolitical uncertainties, contributed to volatile commodity market price movements during this fiscal year. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Net earnings attributable to controlling interests decreased $0.8 billion to $1.2 billion. Segment operating profit declined $1.6 billion to $2.5 billion amid more challenging conditions generally affecting all reportable segments. Segment operating profit in fiscal 2012 included $349 million of asset impairment charges and exit costs comprised of $335 million to exit the Companys Clinton, IA, bioplastics plant and $14 million to shut down its Walhalla, ND, ethanol dry mill. Earnings before income taxes included a credit of $10 million from the effect on LIFO inventory valuation reserves, including the liquidation of LIFO inventory layers, partially offset by increasing agricultural commodity prices, compared to charges of $368 million in the prior year. Fiscal 2012 unallocated corporate expenses included $71 million of charges related to the Companys global workforce reduction program. Income taxes decreased $0.5 billion due to lower earnings before income taxes and a lower effective income tax rate. The Companys effective income tax rate declined to 29.6% compared to 33.1% in the prior year primarily due to income tax benefits associated with foreign currency re measurement of non monetary assets partially offset by a geographic mix of earnings that shifted more to foreign jurisdictions. Analysis of Statements of Earnings Net sales and other operating income by segment are as follows: 2012 2011 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing and Origination $ 18,794 $ 16,518 $ 2,276 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel, and Other 11,628 9,476 2,152 Cocoa and Other 3,715 3,652 63 Asia 578 262 316 Total Oilseeds Processing 34,715 29,908 4,807 Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 4,793 3,766 1,027 Bioproducts 7,321 6,142 1,179 Total Corn Processing 12,114 9,908 2,206 Agricultural Services Merchandising and Handling 37,631 36,852 779 Transportation 269 222 47 Milling and Other 4,182 3,676 506 Total Agricultural Services 42,082 40,750 1,332 Other Financial 127 110 17 Total Other 127 110 17 Total $ 89,038 $ 80,676 $ 8,362 Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Net sales and other operating income increased $7.0 billion due to higher average selling prices, primarily related to higher underlying commodity costs, and $2.1 billion due to increased sales volumes, including sales volumes from acquisitions, partially offset by changes in foreign currency exchange rates of $0.7 billion. Oilseeds Processing sales increased 16% to $34.7 billion due principally to higher average selling prices of vegetable oils, merchandised commodities, protein meal, and biodiesel and increased sales volumes of biodiesel, protein meal, and peanuts, in part due to the acquisition of Golden Peanut in December 2010. Corn Processing sales increased 22% to $12.1 billion due principally to higher average selling prices of ethanol and sweeteners as well as higher sales volumes of sugar and ethanol. Agricultural Services sales increased 3% to $42.1 billion, due to higher average selling prices of corn and wheat flour partially offset by lower sales volumes, in part due to lower export volumes from the U.S. Cost of products sold increased 12% to $85.4 billion due principally to higher costs of agricultural commodities and, to a lesser extent, increased sales volumes. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates reduced current year cost of products sold by $0.7 billion. Manufacturing expenses increased $0.2 billion due to higher costs for maintenance, employee and benefit related expenses, energy, and chemicals. These higher costs were primarily due to higher production volumes, acquisitions, and higher unit costs for fuels and certain chemicals. Partially offsetting these higher costs was lower depreciation expense, in part due to the Companys change in estimated service lives for machinery and equipment during the second quarter of fiscal 2011. Selling, general, and administrative expenses remained steady at $1.6 billion. Loss provisions mainly due to an unfavorable arbitration award in the Companys Agricultural Services operating segment were partially offset by lower overhead expenses. Asset impairment, exit, and restructuring costs of $437 million were comprised of $349 million in the Corn Processing segment related to the Companys exit from its Clinton, IA, bioplastics business and ethanol dry mill in Walhalla, ND, $71 million in Corporate for the global workforce reduction, and $17 million in Corporate for investment writedown and other facility exit related costs. Interest expense decreased 9% to $441 million primarily due to lower long term debt balances, higher interest expense capitalized on construction projects in progress, and lower interest expense related to uncertain income tax positions. Equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates decreased 13% to $472 million principally due to decreased equity earnings from the Companys equity investee, Gruma, which included a $78 million gain in the prior year related to Grumas disposal of certain assets. Interest income declined 18% to $112 million primarily related to the sale and deconsolidation of the Bank, effective September 30, 2011. Other income net declined $113 million to $17 million due primarily to the absence of income recognized in the prior year period of $71 million for the Golden Peanut Gain and $30 million for gains on interest rate swaps. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Operating profit by segment is as follows: 2012 2011 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing and Origination $ 641 $ 925 $ (284 ) Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel, and Other 295 342 (47 ) Cocoa and Other 183 240 (57 ) Asia 183 183 Total Oilseeds Processing 1,302 1,690 (388 ) Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 335 330 5 Bioproducts (74 ) 749 (823 ) Total Corn Processing 261 1,079 (818 ) Agricultural Services Merchandising and Handling 493 807 (314 ) Transportation 125 117 8 Milling and Other 329 399 (70 ) Total Agricultural Services 947 1,323 (376 ) Other Financial 15 39 (24 ) Total Other 15 39 (24 ) Total Segment Operating Profit 2,525 4,131 (1,606 ) Corporate (see below) (760 ) (1,116 ) 356 Earnings Before Income Taxes $ 1,765 $ 3,015 $ (1,250 ) Corporate results are as follows: 2012 2011 Change (In millions) LIFO credit (charge) $ 10 $ (368 ) $ 378 Interest expense net (423 ) (445 ) 22 Unallocated corporate costs (360 ) (326 ) (34 ) Charges on early extinguishment of debt (4 ) (8 ) 4 Gains (losses) on interest rate swaps 30 (30 ) Other 17 1 16 Total Corporate $ (760 ) $ (1,116 ) $ 356 Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Oilseeds Processing operating profit decreased $0.4 billion to $1.3 billion. Crushing and Origination operating profit decreased $284 million to $641 million primarily due to weaker results in European softseeds, lower results in North American softseeds, and lower North American positioning results. Partially offsetting these lower results, were higher grain origination results in South America driven by higher volumes and favorable positioning. Poor European softseeds results were driven by a small prior year rapeseed crop, positioning losses, and weaker demand for protein meal and oils. North American softseed results declined primarily as a result of lower margins generated from a tight cottonseed supply. Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel, and Other results declined $47 million to $295 million due primarily to declines in biodiesel margins in South America and Europe and lower margins for specialty fats and oils in Europe. These declines were partially offset by improved North American protein specialties and natural health and nutrition results due to higher margins and volumes. Cocoa and Other results declined $57 million to $183 million. Current year results in Cocoa and Other were reduced by $100 million for net unrealized mark to market losses related to certain forward purchase and sales commitments accounted for as derivatives. Last year included $9 million of net unrealized mark to market losses. Excluding these timing effects, cocoa results improved in the current year driven by improved press margins caused by strong cocoa powder demand. The prior year included the $71 million Golden Peanut Gain which was partially offset this year by higher earnings in the Companys peanut business in part due to the first full year of consolidated results for Golden Peanut being reported by the Company in fiscal 2012. Asia results remained steady at $183 million, principally reflecting the Companys share of its results from equity investee, Wilmar. Corn Processing operating results decreased $818 million to $261 million due principally to poor ethanol margins and $349 million in asset impairment charges and exit costs. Excluding the asset impairment and exit costs related to the Companys bioplastics business and Walhalla, ND, ethanol dry grind facility, Corn Processing operating profit of $610 million in the current year represents a decline of $469 million compared to the prior year. Processed volumes were up 5 percent while net corn costs increased compared to last year. Sweeteners and Starches operating profit increased $5 million to $335 million, as higher average selling prices more than offset higher net corn costs. Bioproducts profit decreased $823 million to a loss of $74 million, including the $349 million asset impairment and exit charges. Lower ethanol margins were caused by excess supply as previously offline production restarted while industry demand declined, in part due to slowing export demand. Prior year bioproducts results were enhanced by favorable corn ownership positions, which lowered net corn costs in that period. Bioproducts results in the prior year were negatively impacted by startup costs of $94 million related to the Companys new dry grind ethanol, bioplastic, and glycol plants. Agricultural Services operating profits decreased $376 million to $947 million. Merchandising and Handling earnings decreased primarily due to lower results from U.S. operations. Lower sales volumes were principally the result of the relatively higher cost of U.S. grains and oilseeds in the global market due to lower stocks caused by a smaller U.S. harvest in 2011. This relatively weaker position led to reduced U.S. grain exports. In the prior year, Merchandising and Handling results were positively impacted by higher quantities of U.S. grain exports by the Company. In addition, fiscal 2012 included $40 million of increased loss provisions mainly due to an unfavorable arbitration award. Earnings from Transportation were steady. Last years operating results in Milling and Other operations included a $78 million gain related to Grumas disposal of certain assets. Other financial operating profit decreased $24 million to $15 million mainly due to higher loss provisions at the Companys captive insurance subsidiary related to property and crop risk reserves. Corporate expenses declined $356 million to $760 million this year. The effects of a liquidation of LIFO inventory layers partially offset by increasing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations resulted in a credit of $10 million in the current year compared to a charge of $368 million in the prior year primarily due to higher prices. Corporate interest expense decreased $22 million primarily due to lower interest expense on lower long term debt balances. Unallocated corporate costs include $71 million of costs related to the global workforce reduction program. Excluding these costs, unallocated corporate costs declined $37 million due primarily to lower administrative costs. Corporate other income increased due to higher investment income partially offset by $17 million for investment writedown and facility exit related costs. Also, in the prior year the Company recognized $30 million of gains on interest rate swaps. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) 2011 Compared to 2010 As an agricultural commodity based business, the Company is subject to a variety of market factors which affect the Companys operating results. In 2011, prices for certain agricultural commodities were higher in response to growing global demand and tighter crop supplies. The projections of lower 2011 carryover stocks for certain key commodities, coupled with regional crop supply dislocations for certain commodities, also led to high commodity price volatility. Global demand for agricultural commodities grew in 2011, resulting in increased sales volumes for most of the Companys products. The large 2010 North American harvest resulted in global merchandising, handling, and processing opportunities. Protein meal markets for commercial livestock producers in the U.S., particularly poultry producers, faced challenging conditions. Biodiesel markets in Europe and South America, together with the 2011 extension of the U.S. biodiesel blenders credit, helped support global demand for refined and crude vegetable oils. Sweeteners and starches demand remained strong in 2011 due primarily to U.S. exports of sweeteners and improved demand for industrial starches. Ethanol sales volumes, including increased volumes as the Companys new dry mills ramped up, were supported by favorable gasoline blending economics in the U.S. and good export demand. Net earnings increased $106 million to $2.0 billion due principally to a $794 million increase in segment operating profit partially offset by a negative impact from changing LIFO inventory valuations and higher income taxes. In 2011, the Company successfully managed through significant increases in market prices for most of its agricultural commodity raw materials, resulting in increased segment operating profit. Earnings before income taxes includes charges of $368 million from the effect of increasing agricultural commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuation reserves, compared to credits of $42 million in the prior year caused by decreasing agricultural commodity prices. Income taxes increased $331 million due to a higher effective income tax rate and higher earnings before income taxes. The effective income tax rate of 33.1% for 2011 was the result of changes in the geographic mix of earnings and unfavorable specific tax items. The fully diluted earnings per share calculation for 2011 was impacted by the completion of the Companys debt remarketing related to the $1.75 billion Equity Units. While the approximately 44 million new common shares related to the $1.75 billion Equity Units were not issued until June 1, 2011, the if converted method of accounting for diluted earnings per share required diluted EPS to be calculated as if the Company issued the shares on January 1, 2011, and this assumption resulted in a dilutive impact of $0.04 on earnings per share (See Note 11 in the accompanying consolidated financial statements). Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Analysis of Statements of Earnings Net sales and other operating income by segment are as follows: 2011 2010 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing and Origination $ 16,518 $ 14,411 $ 2,107 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel, and Other 9,476 7,133 2,343 Cocoa and Other 3,652 2,678 974 Asia 262 190 72 Total Oilseeds Processing 29,908 24,412 5,496 Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 3,766 3,264 502 Bioproducts 6,142 4,610 1,532 Total Corn Processing 9,908 7,874 2,034 Agricultural Services Merchandising and Handling 36,852 25,751 11,101 Transportation 222 167 55 Milling and Other 3,676 3,383 293 Total Agricultural Services 40,750 29,301 11,449 Other Financial 110 95 15 Total Other 110 95 15 Total $ 80,676 $ 61,682 $ 18,994 Net sales and other operating income increased $19.0 billion, or 31%, to $80.7 billion. Net sales and other operating income increased $14.2 billion due to higher average selling prices, primarily related to higher underlying commodity costs, and increased $4.8 billion due to increased sales volumes, including sales volumes from acquisitions. Agricultural Services sales increased 39% to $40.8 billion due to higher average selling prices of agricultural commodities and higher global sales volumes. Oilseeds Processing sales increased 23% to $29.9 billion primarily due to higher average selling prices for vegetable oils, soybeans, biodiesel, and protein meal. Corn Processing sales increased 26% to $9.9 billion due to higher average selling prices and increased sales volumes of ethanol and other corn products, in part due to the Companys two new ethanol dry mills coming on line. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Cost of products sold increased 32% to $76.4 billion due to higher costs of agricultural commodities, negative impacts resulting from changes in LIFO inventory valuations, and higher manufacturing costs. Cost of products sold includes charges of $368 million from the effect of increasing agricultural commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuation reserves, compared to credits of $42 million in the prior year caused by decreasing agricultural commodity prices. Manufacturing expenses increased $410 million due primarily to higher processed volumes, including the volumes of the Companys new greenfield operations coming on line, and higher average unit costs for certain chemicals and fuels used in the Companys processing and transportation operations. During the second quarter of fiscal 2011, the Company updated its estimates for service lives of certain of its machinery and equipment assets. This change in estimate resulted in a $133 million decrease in depreciation expense compared to the amount of depreciation expense the Company would have recorded using the previously estimated service lives. Manufacturing expenses included $94 million in fiscal 2011 related to the start up of new plants compared to $110 million in the prior year. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased 15% to $1.6 billion. This increase was due to higher employee related costs and higher administrative expenses. Higher employee related costs principally reflect the increase in number of employees during the year and included higher salaries and wages, higher accruals for performance based compensation and higher benefit expenses. Equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates declined 3% to $542 million. The decline in earnings from the Companys equity investee, Wilmar, was partially offset by higher earnings of the Companys equity investee, Gruma, in part due to a gain on Grumas disposition of certain assets. Interest income increased 8% to $136 million principally resulting from higher interest earned on advances to affiliates. Interest expense increased 14% to $482 million. Interest costs capitalized as a component of major construction projects in progress was $7 million compared to $75 million in the prior year. Interest incurred on long term debt declined $24 million as a result of debt retirements while interest incurred on short term debt increased $15 million due to higher average borrowings driven by higher working capital requirements. Other (income) expense net increased $255 million primarily due to the $71 million gain resulting from the revaluation of the Companys previously held equity interest in Golden Peanut upon acquisition of the remaining 50% interest, gains on interest rate swaps of $30 million compared to a loss of $59 million in the prior year, and a decrease in charges related to early extinguishment of debt from $75 million in the prior year to $15 million in the current year. Income taxes increased $331 million to $997 million due to a higher effective income tax rate and higher pretax earnings. The Companys effective income tax rate increased to 33.1% during 2011 compared to 25.8% in fiscal 2010. The increase in the 2011 rate was primarily due to a geographic mix of earnings that shifted more to the U.S., a higher U.S. effective income tax rate, income tax expense associated with foreign currency re measurement of non monetary assets in Brazil, and adjustments to deferred income tax balances. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Operating profit by segment is as follows: 2011 2010 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing and Origination $ 925 $ 834 $ 91 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel, and Other 342 300 42 Cocoa and Other 240 126 114 Asia 183 291 (108 ) Total Oilseeds Processing 1,690 1,551 139 Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 330 538 (208 ) Bioproducts 749 200 549 Total Corn Processing 1,079 738 341 Agricultural Services Merchandising and Handling 807 562 245 Transportation 117 96 21 Milling and Other 399 344 55 Total Agricultural Services 1,323 1,002 321 Other Financial 39 46 (7 ) Total Other 39 46 (7 ) Total Segment Operating Profit 4,131 3,337 794 Corporate (see below) (1,116 ) (752 ) (364 ) Earnings Before Income Taxes $ 3,015 $ 2,585 $ 430 Corporate results are as follows: 2011 2010 Change (In millions) LIFO credit $ (368 ) $ 42 $ (410 ) Interest expense net (445 ) (381 ) (64 ) Unallocated corporate costs (326 ) (266 ) (60 ) Charges on early extinguishment of debt (8 ) (75 ) 67 Gains (losses) on interest rate swaps 30 (59 ) 89 Other 1 (13 ) 14 Total Corporate $ (1,116 ) $ (752 ) $ (364 ) Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Oilseeds Processing operating profit increased 9% to $1.7 billion. Crushing and Origination results increased $91 million to $925 million. Improved North American crushing results, particularly for cotton seed and canola, were partially offset by lower crushing margins in South America and Europe. Margins globally were enhanced by good positioning and by improved origination results. In South America, fertilizer results improved due to higher margins and volumes. Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel and Other results increased $42 million to $342 million due principally to higher packaged oils margins and improved North American and European biodiesel results. Cocoa and Other results increased $114 million to $240 million primarily due to the $71 million gain on the revaluation of the Companys equity interest in Golden Peanut and higher peanut profits as a result of the December 31, 2010 acquisition of the remaining 50% interest of Golden Peanut. Asia results decreased $108 million due principally to decreased earnings from the Companys equity investee, Wilmar. Corn Processing operating profit increased 46% to $1.1 billion, which includes favorable impacts from ownership positions, which were allocated to sweeteners and starches and bioproducts based on total grind. Sweeteners and Starches operating profit decreased $208 million to $330 million due to higher net corn costs partially offset by higher sales volumes. Sales volumes increased due to U.S. export shipments of sweeteners and improved U.S. demand for industrial starches. Bioproducts operating profit improved $549 million primarily due to higher ethanol sales volumes and higher average selling prices leading to increased ethanol and lysine margins. Bioproducts margins were also enhanced by favorable corn ownership positions. Bioproducts results included startup costs related to the Companys new plants of $94 million in 2011 compared to $107 million in the prior year. Agricultural Services operating profit increased 32% to $1.3 billion. Merchandising and Handling results increased due to higher corn and wheat sales volumes and higher margins. A large 2010 U.S. harvest combined with strong international demand resulted in higher U.S. export shipments. Merchandising and Handling results in 2011 included an insurance recovery of $67 million related to property damage and business interruption resulting from an October 2008 explosion at the Companys Destrehan, LA, export facility. International merchandising results were weaker in part due to positions impacted by unexpected shifts in crop supply caused by weather conditions and government actions in the Black Sea region. Transportation results increased $21 million to $117 million primarily due to higher barge freight rates and higher barge utilization levels, in part due to higher U.S. export volumes. Milling and Other results improved due principally to increased equity earnings from the Companys equity investee, Gruma which include a $78 million gain related to Grumas disposal of certain assets. Other financial operating profit decreased 15% to $39 million primarily due to higher captive insurance loss provisions principally related to a $67 million loss related to the Companys Destrehan, LA, export facility insurance claim. Corporate results decreased $364 million primarily due to the negative impact from changing LIFO inventory valuations and higher interest expense net. The effects of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory reserves resulted in charges of $368 million compared to credits of $42 million for the prior year. Corporate interest expense increased $64 million mostly due to lower capitalization of interest costs for construction projects in progress. Partially offsetting the higher LIFO and interest costs were $30 million of gains on interest rate swaps compared to prior year losses on interest rate swaps of $59 million. In addition, 2010 included charges of $75 million on early debt extinguishment compared to $8 million of similar charges in 2011. Liquidity and Capital Resources A Company objective is to have sufficient liquidity, balance sheet strength, and financial flexibility to fund the operating and capital requirements of a capital intensive agricultural commodity based business. The primary source of funds to finance the Companys operations and capital expenditures is cash generated by operations and lines of credit, including a commercial paper borrowing facility. In addition, the Company believes it has access to funds from public and private equity and debt capital markets in both U.S. and international markets. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Cash provided by operating activities was $2.9 billion for the year compared to cash used in operating activities of $2.3 billion last year. Working capital decreased $0.3 billion since the beginning of fiscal 2012 due principally to the $1.0 billion account receivable securitization program discussed below. In fiscal 2011 working capital increased $5.2 billion due principally to higher agricultural commodity prices. Cash used in investing activities was $1.1 billion for the year compared to a $1.7 billion use last year. Capital expenditures were $1.5 billion for the year compared to $1.2 billion last year. The Company spent approximately $0.2 billion on acquisitions in fiscal 2012 and 2011. Related to the sale of the majority interest in Hickory Point Bank, the Company reduced its holdings of marketable securities generating cash of $0.3 billion and divested cash of $0.1 billion as a result of the deconsolidation. In fiscal 2011, net purchases of marketable securities used $0.3 billion of cash. Cash used in financing activities was $1.1 billion for the year compared to cash provided by financing activities of $3.6 billion last year. In fiscal 2012, the Company returned nearly $1.0 billion to shareholders in the form of dividends and share repurchases, including the acquisition of 18.4 million of its common shares for $0.5 billion. In fiscal 2011 net borrowings increased primarily to fund higher working capital. Short term borrowings increased due principally to higher commercial paper borrowings, and long term borrowings increased primarily as a result of the issuance of $1.5 billion of 18 month floating rate notes in February 2011. In addition the Company issued 44 million shares of common stock and received $1.75 billion in fiscal 2011 under the forward stock purchase component of the Companys Equity Units (see Note 10 in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data). At June 30, 2012, the Company had $1.5 billion of cash, cash equivalents, and short term marketable securities and a current ratio, defined as current assets divided by current liabilities, of 1.8 to 1. Included in working capital is $7.8 billion of readily marketable commodity inventories. At June 30, 2012, the Companys capital resources included net worth of $18.2 billion and lines of credit totaling $6.5 billion, of which $4.4 billion was unused. The Companys ratio of long term debt to total capital (the sum of the Companys long term debt and shareholders equity) was 26% at June 30, 2012 and 30% at June 30, 2011. This ratio is a measure of the Companys long term indebtedness and is an indicator of financial flexibility. Of the Companys total lines of credit, $4.3 billion support a commercial paper borrowing facility, against which there were $1.3 billion of commercial paper outstanding at June 30, 2012. In August 2012, the Company added a $2.0 billion credit facility which will support commercial paper borrowings. On March 27, 2012, the Company entered into an amendment of its accounts receivable securitization program (as amended, the Program) with certain commercial paper conduit purchasers and committed purchasers (collectively, the Purchasers). The Program provides the Company with up to $1.0 billion in funding against accounts receivable transferred into the Program and expands the Companys access to liquidity through efficient use of its balance sheet assets. Under the Program, certain U.S. originated trade accounts receivable are sold to a wholly owned bankruptcy remote entity, ADM Receivables, LLC (ADM Receivables). ADM Receivables in turn transfers such purchased accounts receivable in their entirety to the Purchasers pursuant to a receivables purchase agreement. In exchange for the transfer of the accounts receivable, ADM Receivables receives a cash payment of up to $1.0 billion and an additional amount upon the collection of the accounts receivable (deferred consideration). ADM Receivables uses the cash proceeds from the transfer of receivables to the Purchasers and other consideration to finance the purchase of receivables from the Company and the ADM subsidiaries originating the receivables. The Company acts as master servicer, responsible for servicing and collecting the accounts receivable under the Program. The Program terminates on June 28, 2013 (see Note 20 for more information and disclosures on the Program). As of June 30, 2012, the fair value of trade receivables transferred to the Purchasers under the Program and derecognized from the Companys consolidated balance sheet was $1.6 billion. In exchange for the transfer, the Company received cash of $1.0 billion and recorded a receivable for deferred consideration included in other current assets. The Company has outstanding $1.4 billion principal amount of floating rate notes due on August 13, 2012. Interest on the notes accrues at a floating rate three month LIBOR reset quarterly plus 0.16% and is paid quarterly. As of June 30, 2012, the interest rate on the notes was 0.63%. In August 2012, the Company paid these notes with funds available from short term borrowings. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) The Company has outstanding $1.15 billion principal amount of convertible senior notes. As of June 30, 2012, none of the conditions permitting conversion of these notes had been satisfied. The Company has purchased call options and warrants intended to reduce the potential shareholder dilution upon future conversion of the notes. As of June 30, 2012, the market price of the Companys common stock was not greater than the exercise price of the purchased call options or warrants related to the convertible senior notes. The Company is currently experiencing generally higher prices for agricultural commodities as a result of tightening crop supplies, mostly due to weather impacts on current year U.S. corn and soybean crop production. Higher prices of commodities have historically correlated with increases in the Companys working capital requirements. The Company depends on access to credit markets, which can be impacted by its credit rating and factors outside of the Companys control, such as the European debt situation, to fund its working capital needs and capital expenditures. The Company expects capital expenditures to range from $0.5 billion to $0.6 billion for the upcoming 6 month period ending December 31, 2012. On November 5, 2009, the Companys Board of Directors approved a stock repurchase program authorizing the Company to repurchase up to 100,000,000 shares of the Companys common stock during the period commencing January 1, 2010 and ending December 31, 2014. The Company has acquired approximately 31.6 million shares under this program, resulting in remaining approval to acquire 68.4 million shares. The Companys credit facilities and certain debentures require the Company to comply with specified financial and non financial covenants including maintenance of minimum tangible net worth as well as limitations related to incurring liens, secured debt, and certain other financing arrangements. The Company is in compliance with these covenants as of June 30, 2012. Contractual Obligations In the normal course of business, the Company enters into contracts and commitments which obligate the Company to make payments in the future. The following table sets forth the Companys significant future obligations by time period. Purchases include commodity based contracts entered into in the normal course of business, which are further described in Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, energy related purchase contracts entered into in the normal course of business, and other purchase obligations related to the Companys normal business activities. The following table does not include unrecognized income tax benefits of $80 million as of June 30, 2012 as the Company is unable to reasonably estimate the timing of settlement. Where applicable, information included in the Companys consolidated financial statements and notes is cross referenced in this table. Payments Due by Period Contractual Item 8 Note Less than 1 3 3 5 More than Obligations Reference Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years (In millions) Purchases Inventories $ 17,724 $ 17,307 $ 211 $ 130 $ 76 Energy 866 390 233 87 156 Other 242 145 86 10 1 Total purchases 18,832 17,842 530 227 233 Short term debt 2,108 2,108 Long term debt Note 10 8,212 1,677 1,114 320 5,101 Estimated interest payments 6,688 374 650 636 5,028 Operating leases Note 16 1,135 244 365 263 263 Estimated pension and other postretirement plan contributions (1) Note 17 188 64 23 25 76 Total $ 37,163 $ 22,309 $ 2,682 $ 1,471 $ 10,701 (1) Includes pension contributions of $53 million for fiscal 2013. The Company is unable to estimate the amount of pension contributions beyond fiscal year 2013. For more information concerning the Companys pension and other postretirement plans, see Note 17 in Item 8. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) At June 30, 2012, the Company estimates it will spend approximately $2.1 billion through calendar year 2015 to complete currently approved capital projects which are not included in the table above. The Company also has outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds of $644 million at June 30, 2012. In addition, the Company has entered into agreements, primarily debt guarantee agreements related to equity method investees, which could obligate the Company to make future payments. The Companys liability under these agreements arises only if the primary entity fails to perform its contractual obligation. The Company has collateral for a portion of these contingent obligations. At June 30, 2012, these contingent obligations totaled approximately $30 million. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements On March 27, 2012, the Company entered into an amendment of its accounts receivable securitization program (as amended, the Program) with certain commercial paper conduit purchasers and committed purchasers (collectively, the Purchasers). Under the Program, certain U.S. originated trade accounts receivable are sold to a wholly owned bankruptcy remote entity, ADM Receivables, LLC (ADM Receivables). ADM Receivables in turn transfers such purchased accounts receivable in their entirety to the Purchasers pursuant to a receivables purchase agreement. In exchange for the transfer of the accounts receivable, ADM Receivables receives a cash payment of up to $1.0 billion and an additional amount upon the collection of the accounts receivable (deferred consideration). ADM Receivables uses the cash proceeds from the transfer of receivables to the Purchasers and other consideration to finance the purchase of receivables from the Company and the ADM subsidiaries originating the receivables. The Company accounts for these transfers as sales. The Company has no retained interests in the transferred receivables, other than collection and administrative responsibilities and its right to the deferred consideration. At June 30, 2012, the Company did not record a servicing asset or liability related to its retained responsibility, based on its assessment of the servicing fee, market values for similar transactions and its cost of servicing the receivables sold. The Program terminates on June 28, 2013. As of June 30, 2012, the fair value of trade receivables transferred to the Purchasers under the Program and derecognized from the Companys consolidated balance sheet was $1.6 billion. In exchange for the transfer, the Company received cash of $1.0 billion and recorded a receivable for deferred consideration included in other current assets. Cash collections from customers on receivables sold were $8.9 billion for the four months ended June 30, 2012. Of this amount, $8.9 billion pertains to cash collections on the deferred consideration. Deferred consideration is paid to the Company in cash on behalf of the Purchasers as receivables are collected; however, as this is a revolving facility, cash collected from the Companys customers is reinvested by the Purchasers daily in new receivable purchases under the Program. The Companys risk of loss following the transfer of accounts receivable under the Program is limited to the deferred consideration outstanding, which is classified as other current assets and was $0.6 billion at June 30, 2012. The Company carries the deferred consideration at fair value determined by calculating the expected amount of cash to be received and is principally based on observable inputs (a Level 2 measurement under ASC 820) consisting mainly of the face amount of the receivables adjusted for anticipated credit losses and discounted at the appropriate market rate. Payment of deferred consideration is not subject to significant risks other than delinquencies and credit losses on accounts receivable transferred under the program which have historically been insignificant. Transfers of receivables under the Program during the year ended June 30, 2012 resulted in an expense for the loss on sale of $4 million which is classified as selling, general, and administrative expenses in the consolidated statements of earnings. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Critical Accounting Policies The process of preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the carrying values of the Companys assets and liabilities as well as the recognition of revenues and expenses. These estimates and judgments are based on the Companys historical experience and managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Certain of the Companys accounting policies are considered critical, as these policies are important to the depiction of the Companys financial statements and require significant or complex judgment by management. Management has discussed with the Companys Audit Committee the development, selection, disclosure, and application of these critical accounting policies. Following are the accounting policies management considers critical to the Companys financial statements. Fair Value Measurements Inventories and Derivatives Certain of the Companys assets and liabilities as of June 30, 2012 are valued at estimated fair values, including $6.8 billion of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, $3.1 billion of derivative assets, $3.0 billion of derivative liabilities, and $0.3 billion of inventory related payables. Derivative assets and liabilities include forward fixed price purchase and sale contracts for agricultural commodities, forward foreign exchange contracts, and over the counter instruments such as options contracts. The merchandisable agricultural commodities are freely traded, have quoted market prices, and may be sold without significant additional processing. Management estimates fair value for its commodity related assets and liabilities based on exchange quoted prices, adjusted for differences in local markets. The Companys fair value measurements are mainly based on observable market quotations without significant adjustments and are therefore reported as Level 1 or Level 2 within the fair value hierarchy. Level 3 fair value measurements represent fair value estimates where unobservable price components represent 10% or more of the total fair value price. For more information concerning amounts reported as Level 3, see Note 3 in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Changes in the market values of these inventories and contracts are recognized in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. If management used different methods or factors to estimate market value, amounts reported as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. Additionally, if market conditions change subsequent to year end, amounts reported in future periods as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. Derivatives Designated Hedging Activities The Company, from time to time, uses derivative contracts designated as cash flow hedges to fix the purchase price of anticipated volumes of commodities to be purchased and processed in a future month, to fix the purchase price of the Companys anticipated natural gas requirements for certain production facilities, and to fix the sales price of anticipated volumes of ethanol. These designated hedging programs principally relate to the Companys Corn Processing operating segment. The change in the market value of such derivative contracts has historically been, and is expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold and net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. If it is determined that the derivative instruments used are no longer effective at offsetting changes in the price of the hedged item, then the changes in the market value of these exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts would be recorded immediately in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. See Note 4 in Item 8 for additional information. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Investments in Affiliates The Company applies the equity method of accounting for investments over which the Company has the ability to exercise significant influence, including its 16.4% investment in Wilmar. These investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings and are adjusted, where appropriate, for amortizable basis differences between the investment balance and the underlying net assets of the investee. Generally, the minimum ownership threshold for asserting significant influence is 20% ownership of the investee. However, the Company considers all relevant factors in determining its ability to assert significant influence including but not limited to, ownership percentage, board membership, customer and vendor relationships, and other arrangements. If management used a different accounting method for these investments, then the amount of earnings from affiliates the Company recognizes may differ. Income Taxes The Company frequently faces challenges from U.S. and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company records reserves for estimates of potential additional tax owed by the Company. As an example, a subsidiary of the Company received tax assessments in the amount of $570 million consisting of tax, penalty, and interest (adjusted for interest and variation in currency exchange rates) from the Brazilian Federal Revenue Service challenging the deductibility of commodity hedging losses incurred by the Company for tax years 2004, 2006 and 2007. The Company evaluated its tax position regarding these hedging transactions and concluded, based in part upon advice from Brazilian legal counsel, that it was appropriate to recognize the tax benefits of these deductions (see Note 15 in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for additional information). Deferred tax assets represent items to be used as tax deductions or credits in future tax returns, and the related tax benefit has already been recognized in the Companys income statement. The realization of the Companys deferred tax assets is dependent upon future taxable income in specific tax jurisdictions, the timing and amount of which are uncertain. The Company evaluates all available positive and negative evidence including estimated future reversals of existing temporary differences, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies, and recent financial results. Valuation allowances related to these deferred tax assets have been established to the extent the realization of the tax benefit is not likely. To the extent the Company were to favorably resolve matters for which accruals have been established or be required to pay amounts in excess of the aforementioned reserves, the Companys effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be impacted. Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and the Companys share of the undistributed earnings of affiliated corporate joint venture companies accounted for on the equity method amounting to approximately $7.2 billion at June 30, 2012, are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Property, Plant, and Equipment and Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand, changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned factors may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and cash flows of the Companys assets in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its facilities. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment, technology, and companies related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. Assets are written down after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these assets, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. During 2012, 2011, and 2010, impairment charges were $367 million, $2 million, and $9 million, respectively (see Note 19 for additional information on charges taken in 2012). Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets Goodwill and intangible assets deemed to have indefinite lives are not amortized but are subject to annual impairment tests. The Company evaluates goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year or whenever there are indicators that the carrying value of the assets may not be fully recoverable. Definite lived intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives and are reviewed for impairment whenever there are indicators that the carrying value of the assets may not be fully recoverable. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its impairment tests, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Employee Benefit Plans The Company provides substantially all U.S. employees and employees at certain international subsidiaries with pension benefits. Eligible U.S. employees with five or more years of service prior to January 1, 2009 participate in a defined benefit pension plan. Eligible U.S. employees hired on or after January 1, 2009 (and eligible salaried employees with less than five years of service prior to January 1, 2009) participate in a cash balance pension formula. The Company provides eligible U.S. employees who retire under qualifying conditions with access to postretirement health care, at full cost to the retiree (certain employees are grandfathered into subsidized coverage). In order to measure the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans, management makes several estimates and assumptions, including interest rates used to discount certain liabilities, rates of return on assets set aside to fund these plans, rates of compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and anticipated future health care costs. These estimates and assumptions are based on the Companys historical experience combined with managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Management also uses third party actuaries to assist in measuring the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans. If management used different estimates and assumptions regarding these plans, the funded status of the plans could vary significantly, and the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. See Note 17 in Item 8 for additional information. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in: commodity market prices as they relate to the Companys net commodity position, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and prices of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to factors such as changes in weather conditions, crop disease, plantings, government programs and policies, competition, changes in global demand, changes in customer preferences and standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. The Company manages its exposure to adverse price movements of agricultural commodities used for, and produced in, its business operations, by entering into derivative and non derivative contracts which reduce the Companys overall short or long commodity position. Additionally, the Company uses exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the correlation between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contract defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company, from time to time, enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed designated hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold or net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. The Companys commodity position consists of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, related purchase and sales contracts, energy and freight contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts including contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements, net of sales. The fair value of the Companys commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing all of the commodity positions at quoted market prices for the period, where available, or utilizing a close proxy. The Company has established metrics to monitor the amount of market risk exposure, which consist of volumetric limits, and value at risk (VaR) limits. VaR measures the potential loss, at a 95% confidence level, that could be incurred over a one year period. Volumetric limits are monitored daily and VaR calculations and sensitivity analysis are monitored weekly. In addition to measuring the hypothetical loss resulting from an adverse two standard deviation move in market prices (assuming no correlations) over a one year period using VaR, sensitivity analysis is performed measuring the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in market prices. The highest, lowest, and average weekly position for each of the last two years together with the market risk from a hypothetical 10% adverse price change is as follows: 2012 2011 Long/(Short) Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest position $ 1,477 $ 148 $ 2,388 $ 239 Lowest position (383 ) (38 ) 368 37 Average position 546 55 1,644 164 The decline in fair value of the average position for 2012 compared to 2011 was principally the result of the decline in average quantities underlying the weekly commodity position. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) Currencies The Company has consolidated subsidiaries in over 75 countries. For the majority of the Companys subsidiaries located outside the United States, the local currency is the functional currency. To reduce the risks associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, the Company enters into currency exchange contracts to minimize its foreign currency position related to transactions denominated primarily in Euro, British pound, Canadian dollar, and Brazilian real currencies. These currencies represent the major functional or local currencies in which recurring business transactions occur. The Company does not use currency exchange contracts as hedges against amounts permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The currency exchange contracts used are forward contracts, swaps with banks, exchange traded futures contracts, and over the counter options. The changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $7.2 billion at June 30, 2012, and $8.2 billion at June 30, 2011. This decrease is due to the depreciation of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar partially offset by an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The potential loss in fair value, which would principally be recognized in Other Comprehensive Income, resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $722 million and $823 million for 2012 and 2011, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 50 basis points decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2012 2011 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 8,057 $ 9,108 Excess of fair value over carrying value 1,522 842 Market risk 422 333 The decrease in fair value of long term debt in 2012 resulted principally from the reclassification of $1.5 billion in floating rate notes to short term debt partially offset by decreased interest rates. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Operating Performance Indicators The Companys oilseeds processing and agricultural services operations are principally agricultural commodity based businesses where changes in selling prices move in relationship to changes in prices of the commodity based agricultural raw materials. Therefore, changes in agricultural commodity prices have relatively equal impacts on both net sales and other operating income and cost of products sold. Thus, changes in margins and gross profit of these businesses do not necessarily correspond to the changes in net sales and other operating income amounts. The Companys corn processing operations and certain other food and animal feed processing operations also utilize agricultural commodities (or products derived from agricultural commodities) as raw materials. In these operations, agricultural commodity market price changes can result in significant fluctuations in cost of products sold, and such price changes cannot necessarily be passed directly through to the selling price of the finished products. The Company has consolidated subsidiaries in over 75 countries. For the majority of the Companys subsidiaries located outside the United States, the local currency is the functional currency. Revenues and expenses denominated in foreign currencies are translated into U.S. dollars at the weighted average exchange rates for the applicable periods. For the majority of the Companys business activities in Brazil, the functional currency is the U.S. dollar; however, certain transactions, including taxes, occur in local currency and require conversion to the functional currency. Fluctuations in the exchange rates of foreign currencies, primarily the Euro, British pound, Canadian dollar, and Brazilian real, as compared to the U.S. dollar can result in corresponding fluctuations in the U.S. dollar value of revenues and expenses reported by the Company. The Company measures the performance of its business segments using key financial metrics such as segment operating profit, return on invested capital, and cost per metric ton. The Companys operating results can vary significantly due to changes in factors such as fluctuations in energy prices, weather conditions, crop plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand, general global economic conditions, changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. Due to these unpredictable factors, the Company does not provide forward looking information in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 2012 Compared to 2011 As an agricultural commodity based business, the Company is subject to a variety of market factors which affect the Companys operating results. From a demand perspective, global protein meal consumption has continued to grow although at a slower rate. Excess industry crushing production capacity has pressured oilseeds margins, and the Company has adjusted production rates regionally to balance supply with current market demand. Biodiesel markets supported global demand for refined and crude vegetable oils. In the U.S., high biodiesel inventories associated with the December 31, 2011, expiration of blenders incentives dampened margins in the second half of the fiscal year. U.S. corn sweetener exports continue to support sales volumes and margins. Ethanol sales volumes were supported by favorable gasoline blending economics in the U.S. However, excess industry production of ethanol, together with recently reduced U.S. ethanol export demand, have negatively impacted ethanol margins. From a supply perspective, crop supplies in certain key growing regions at the beginning of this fiscal year, including South America and the Black Sea region, were adequate, but a smaller than normal harvest in North America last fall resulted in low U.S. carryover stocks for corn and soybeans. Because of the smaller than expected current year South American harvest, global supplies of corn and soybeans are more dependent on this years North American harvest. While plantings of corn increased this year in the U.S., the drought conditions late in the fiscal year have decreased expectations for the size of the current year harvest. These factors, combined with concerns about the European debt situation and ongoing geopolitical uncertainties, contributed to volatile commodity market price movements during this fiscal year. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Net earnings attributable to controlling interests decreased $0.8 billion to $1.2 billion. Segment operating profit declined $1.6 billion to $2.5 billion amid more challenging conditions generally affecting all reportable segments. Segment operating profit in fiscal 2012 included $349 million of asset impairment charges and exit costs comprised of $335 million to exit the Companys Clinton, IA, bioplastics plant and $14 million to shut down its Walhalla, ND, ethanol dry mill. Earnings before income taxes included a credit of $10 million from the effect on LIFO inventory valuation reserves, including the liquidation of LIFO inventory layers, partially offset by increasing agricultural commodity prices, compared to charges of $368 million in the prior year. Fiscal 2012 unallocated corporate expenses included $71 million of charges related to the Companys global workforce reduction program. Income taxes decreased $0.5 billion due to lower earnings before income taxes and a lower effective income tax rate. The Companys effective income tax rate declined to 29.6% compared to 33.1% in the prior year primarily due to income tax benefits associated with foreign currency re measurement of non monetary assets partially offset by a geographic mix of earnings that shifted more to foreign jurisdictions. Analysis of Statements of Earnings Net sales and other operating income by segment are as follows: 2012 2011 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing and Origination $ 18,794 $ 16,518 $ 2,276 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel, and Other 11,628 9,476 2,152 Cocoa and Other 3,715 3,652 63 Asia 578 262 316 Total Oilseeds Processing 34,715 29,908 4,807 Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 4,793 3,766 1,027 Bioproducts 7,321 6,142 1,179 Total Corn Processing 12,114 9,908 2,206 Agricultural Services Merchandising and Handling 37,631 36,852 779 Transportation 269 222 47 Milling and Other 4,182 3,676 506 Total Agricultural Services 42,082 40,750 1,332 Other Financial 127 110 17 Total Other 127 110 17 Total $ 89,038 $ 80,676 $ 8,362 Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Net sales and other operating income increased $7.0 billion due to higher average selling prices, primarily related to higher underlying commodity costs, and $2.1 billion due to increased sales volumes, including sales volumes from acquisitions, partially offset by changes in foreign currency exchange rates of $0.7 billion. Oilseeds Processing sales increased 16% to $34.7 billion due principally to higher average selling prices of vegetable oils, merchandised commodities, protein meal, and biodiesel and increased sales volumes of biodiesel, protein meal, and peanuts, in part due to the acquisition of Golden Peanut in December 2010. Corn Processing sales increased 22% to $12.1 billion due principally to higher average selling prices of ethanol and sweeteners as well as higher sales volumes of sugar and ethanol. Agricultural Services sales increased 3% to $42.1 billion, due to higher average selling prices of corn and wheat flour partially offset by lower sales volumes, in part due to lower export volumes from the U.S. Cost of products sold increased 12% to $85.4 billion due principally to higher costs of agricultural commodities and, to a lesser extent, increased sales volumes. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates reduced current year cost of products sold by $0.7 billion. Manufacturing expenses increased $0.2 billion due to higher costs for maintenance, employee and benefit related expenses, energy, and chemicals. These higher costs were primarily due to higher production volumes, acquisitions, and higher unit costs for fuels and certain chemicals. Partially offsetting these higher costs was lower depreciation expense, in part due to the Companys change in estimated service lives for machinery and equipment during the second quarter of fiscal 2011. Selling, general, and administrative expenses remained steady at $1.6 billion. Loss provisions mainly due to an unfavorable arbitration award in the Companys Agricultural Services operating segment were partially offset by lower overhead expenses. Asset impairment, exit, and restructuring costs of $437 million were comprised of $349 million in the Corn Processing segment related to the Companys exit from its Clinton, IA, bioplastics business and ethanol dry mill in Walhalla, ND, $71 million in Corporate for the global workforce reduction, and $17 million in Corporate for investment writedown and other facility exit related costs. Interest expense decreased 9% to $441 million primarily due to lower long term debt balances, higher interest expense capitalized on construction projects in progress, and lower interest expense related to uncertain income tax positions. Equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates decreased 13% to $472 million principally due to decreased equity earnings from the Companys equity investee, Gruma, which included a $78 million gain in the prior year related to Grumas disposal of certain assets. Interest income declined 18% to $112 million primarily related to the sale and deconsolidation of the Bank, effective September 30, 2011. Other income net declined $113 million to $17 million due primarily to the absence of income recognized in the prior year period of $71 million for the Golden Peanut Gain and $30 million for gains on interest rate swaps. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Operating profit by segment is as follows: 2012 2011 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing and Origination $ 641 $ 925 $ (284 ) Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel, and Other 295 342 (47 ) Cocoa and Other 183 240 (57 ) Asia 183 183 Total Oilseeds Processing 1,302 1,690 (388 ) Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 335 330 5 Bioproducts (74 ) 749 (823 ) Total Corn Processing 261 1,079 (818 ) Agricultural Services Merchandising and Handling 493 807 (314 ) Transportation 125 117 8 Milling and Other 329 399 (70 ) Total Agricultural Services 947 1,323 (376 ) Other Financial 15 39 (24 ) Total Other 15 39 (24 ) Total Segment Operating Profit 2,525 4,131 (1,606 ) Corporate (see below) (760 ) (1,116 ) 356 Earnings Before Income Taxes $ 1,765 $ 3,015 $ (1,250 ) Corporate results are as follows: 2012 2011 Change (In millions) LIFO credit (charge) $ 10 $ (368 ) $ 378 Interest expense net (423 ) (445 ) 22 Unallocated corporate costs (360 ) (326 ) (34 ) Charges on early extinguishment of debt (4 ) (8 ) 4 Gains (losses) on interest rate swaps 30 (30 ) Other 17 1 16 Total Corporate $ (760 ) $ (1,116 ) $ 356 Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Oilseeds Processing operating profit decreased $0.4 billion to $1.3 billion. Crushing and Origination operating profit decreased $284 million to $641 million primarily due to weaker results in European softseeds, lower results in North American softseeds, and lower North American positioning results. Partially offsetting these lower results, were higher grain origination results in South America driven by higher volumes and favorable positioning. Poor European softseeds results were driven by a small prior year rapeseed crop, positioning losses, and weaker demand for protein meal and oils. North American softseed results declined primarily as a result of lower margins generated from a tight cottonseed supply. Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel, and Other results declined $47 million to $295 million due primarily to declines in biodiesel margins in South America and Europe and lower margins for specialty fats and oils in Europe. These declines were partially offset by improved North American protein specialties and natural health and nutrition results due to higher margins and volumes. Cocoa and Other results declined $57 million to $183 million. Current year results in Cocoa and Other were reduced by $100 million for net unrealized mark to market losses related to certain forward purchase and sales commitments accounted for as derivatives. Last year included $9 million of net unrealized mark to market losses. Excluding these timing effects, cocoa results improved in the current year driven by improved press margins caused by strong cocoa powder demand. The prior year included the $71 million Golden Peanut Gain which was partially offset this year by higher earnings in the Companys peanut business in part due to the first full year of consolidated results for Golden Peanut being reported by the Company in fiscal 2012. Asia results remained steady at $183 million, principally reflecting the Companys share of its results from equity investee, Wilmar. Corn Processing operating results decreased $818 million to $261 million due principally to poor ethanol margins and $349 million in asset impairment charges and exit costs. Excluding the asset impairment and exit costs related to the Companys bioplastics business and Walhalla, ND, ethanol dry grind facility, Corn Processing operating profit of $610 million in the current year represents a decline of $469 million compared to the prior year. Processed volumes were up 5 percent while net corn costs increased compared to last year. Sweeteners and Starches operating profit increased $5 million to $335 million, as higher average selling prices more than offset higher net corn costs. Bioproducts profit decreased $823 million to a loss of $74 million, including the $349 million asset impairment and exit charges. Lower ethanol margins were caused by excess supply as previously offline production restarted while industry demand declined, in part due to slowing export demand. Prior year bioproducts results were enhanced by favorable corn ownership positions, which lowered net corn costs in that period. Bioproducts results in the prior year were negatively impacted by startup costs of $94 million related to the Companys new dry grind ethanol, bioplastic, and glycol plants. Agricultural Services operating profits decreased $376 million to $947 million. Merchandising and Handling earnings decreased primarily due to lower results from U.S. operations. Lower sales volumes were principally the result of the relatively higher cost of U.S. grains and oilseeds in the global market due to lower stocks caused by a smaller U.S. harvest in 2011. This relatively weaker position led to reduced U.S. grain exports. In the prior year, Merchandising and Handling results were positively impacted by higher quantities of U.S. grain exports by the Company. In addition, fiscal 2012 included $40 million of increased loss provisions mainly due to an unfavorable arbitration award. Earnings from Transportation were steady. Last years operating results in Milling and Other operations included a $78 million gain related to Grumas disposal of certain assets. Other financial operating profit decreased $24 million to $15 million mainly due to higher loss provisions at the Companys captive insurance subsidiary related to property and crop risk reserves. Corporate expenses declined $356 million to $760 million this year. The effects of a liquidation of LIFO inventory layers partially offset by increasing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations resulted in a credit of $10 million in the current year compared to a charge of $368 million in the prior year primarily due to higher prices. Corporate interest expense decreased $22 million primarily due to lower interest expense on lower long term debt balances. Unallocated corporate costs include $71 million of costs related to the global workforce reduction program. Excluding these costs, unallocated corporate costs declined $37 million due primarily to lower administrative costs. Corporate other income increased due to higher investment income partially offset by $17 million for investment writedown and facility exit related costs. Also, in the prior year the Company recognized $30 million of gains on interest rate swaps. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) 2011 Compared to 2010 As an agricultural commodity based business, the Company is subject to a variety of market factors which affect the Companys operating results. In 2011, prices for certain agricultural commodities were higher in response to growing global demand and tighter crop supplies. The projections of lower 2011 carryover stocks for certain key commodities, coupled with regional crop supply dislocations for certain commodities, also led to high commodity price volatility. Global demand for agricultural commodities grew in 2011, resulting in increased sales volumes for most of the Companys products. The large 2010 North American harvest resulted in global merchandising, handling, and processing opportunities. Protein meal markets for commercial livestock producers in the U.S., particularly poultry producers, faced challenging conditions. Biodiesel markets in Europe and South America, together with the 2011 extension of the U.S. biodiesel blenders credit, helped support global demand for refined and crude vegetable oils. Sweeteners and starches demand remained strong in 2011 due primarily to U.S. exports of sweeteners and improved demand for industrial starches. Ethanol sales volumes, including increased volumes as the Companys new dry mills ramped up, were supported by favorable gasoline blending economics in the U.S. and good export demand. Net earnings increased $106 million to $2.0 billion due principally to a $794 million increase in segment operating profit partially offset by a negative impact from changing LIFO inventory valuations and higher income taxes. In 2011, the Company successfully managed through significant increases in market prices for most of its agricultural commodity raw materials, resulting in increased segment operating profit. Earnings before income taxes includes charges of $368 million from the effect of increasing agricultural commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuation reserves, compared to credits of $42 million in the prior year caused by decreasing agricultural commodity prices. Income taxes increased $331 million due to a higher effective income tax rate and higher earnings before income taxes. The effective income tax rate of 33.1% for 2011 was the result of changes in the geographic mix of earnings and unfavorable specific tax items. The fully diluted earnings per share calculation for 2011 was impacted by the completion of the Companys debt remarketing related to the $1.75 billion Equity Units. While the approximately 44 million new common shares related to the $1.75 billion Equity Units were not issued until June 1, 2011, the if converted method of accounting for diluted earnings per share required diluted EPS to be calculated as if the Company issued the shares on January 1, 2011, and this assumption resulted in a dilutive impact of $0.04 on earnings per share (See Note 11 in the accompanying consolidated financial statements). Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Analysis of Statements of Earnings Net sales and other operating income by segment are as follows: 2011 2010 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing and Origination $ 16,518 $ 14,411 $ 2,107 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel, and Other 9,476 7,133 2,343 Cocoa and Other 3,652 2,678 974 Asia 262 190 72 Total Oilseeds Processing 29,908 24,412 5,496 Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 3,766 3,264 502 Bioproducts 6,142 4,610 1,532 Total Corn Processing 9,908 7,874 2,034 Agricultural Services Merchandising and Handling 36,852 25,751 11,101 Transportation 222 167 55 Milling and Other 3,676 3,383 293 Total Agricultural Services 40,750 29,301 11,449 Other Financial 110 95 15 Total Other 110 95 15 Total $ 80,676 $ 61,682 $ 18,994 Net sales and other operating income increased $19.0 billion, or 31%, to $80.7 billion. Net sales and other operating income increased $14.2 billion due to higher average selling prices, primarily related to higher underlying commodity costs, and increased $4.8 billion due to increased sales volumes, including sales volumes from acquisitions. Agricultural Services sales increased 39% to $40.8 billion due to higher average selling prices of agricultural commodities and higher global sales volumes. Oilseeds Processing sales increased 23% to $29.9 billion primarily due to higher average selling prices for vegetable oils, soybeans, biodiesel, and protein meal. Corn Processing sales increased 26% to $9.9 billion due to higher average selling prices and increased sales volumes of ethanol and other corn products, in part due to the Companys two new ethanol dry mills coming on line. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Cost of products sold increased 32% to $76.4 billion due to higher costs of agricultural commodities, negative impacts resulting from changes in LIFO inventory valuations, and higher manufacturing costs. Cost of products sold includes charges of $368 million from the effect of increasing agricultural commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuation reserves, compared to credits of $42 million in the prior year caused by decreasing agricultural commodity prices. Manufacturing expenses increased $410 million due primarily to higher processed volumes, including the volumes of the Companys new greenfield operations coming on line, and higher average unit costs for certain chemicals and fuels used in the Companys processing and transportation operations. During the second quarter of fiscal 2011, the Company updated its estimates for service lives of certain of its machinery and equipment assets. This change in estimate resulted in a $133 million decrease in depreciation expense compared to the amount of depreciation expense the Company would have recorded using the previously estimated service lives. Manufacturing expenses included $94 million in fiscal 2011 related to the start up of new plants compared to $110 million in the prior year. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased 15% to $1.6 billion. This increase was due to higher employee related costs and higher administrative expenses. Higher employee related costs principally reflect the increase in number of employees during the year and included higher salaries and wages, higher accruals for performance based compensation and higher benefit expenses. Equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates declined 3% to $542 million. The decline in earnings from the Companys equity investee, Wilmar, was partially offset by higher earnings of the Companys equity investee, Gruma, in part due to a gain on Grumas disposition of certain assets. Interest income increased 8% to $136 million principally resulting from higher interest earned on advances to affiliates. Interest expense increased 14% to $482 million. Interest costs capitalized as a component of major construction projects in progress was $7 million compared to $75 million in the prior year. Interest incurred on long term debt declined $24 million as a result of debt retirements while interest incurred on short term debt increased $15 million due to higher average borrowings driven by higher working capital requirements. Other (income) expense net increased $255 million primarily due to the $71 million gain resulting from the revaluation of the Companys previously held equity interest in Golden Peanut upon acquisition of the remaining 50% interest, gains on interest rate swaps of $30 million compared to a loss of $59 million in the prior year, and a decrease in charges related to early extinguishment of debt from $75 million in the prior year to $15 million in the current year. Income taxes increased $331 million to $997 million due to a higher effective income tax rate and higher pretax earnings. The Companys effective income tax rate increased to 33.1% during 2011 compared to 25.8% in fiscal 2010. The increase in the 2011 rate was primarily due to a geographic mix of earnings that shifted more to the U.S., a higher U.S. effective income tax rate, income tax expense associated with foreign currency re measurement of non monetary assets in Brazil, and adjustments to deferred income tax balances. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Operating profit by segment is as follows: 2011 2010 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing and Origination $ 925 $ 834 $ 91 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel, and Other 342 300 42 Cocoa and Other 240 126 114 Asia 183 291 (108 ) Total Oilseeds Processing 1,690 1,551 139 Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 330 538 (208 ) Bioproducts 749 200 549 Total Corn Processing 1,079 738 341 Agricultural Services Merchandising and Handling 807 562 245 Transportation 117 96 21 Milling and Other 399 344 55 Total Agricultural Services 1,323 1,002 321 Other Financial 39 46 (7 ) Total Other 39 46 (7 ) Total Segment Operating Profit 4,131 3,337 794 Corporate (see below) (1,116 ) (752 ) (364 ) Earnings Before Income Taxes $ 3,015 $ 2,585 $ 430 Corporate results are as follows: 2011 2010 Change (In millions) LIFO credit $ (368 ) $ 42 $ (410 ) Interest expense net (445 ) (381 ) (64 ) Unallocated corporate costs (326 ) (266 ) (60 ) Charges on early extinguishment of debt (8 ) (75 ) 67 Gains (losses) on interest rate swaps 30 (59 ) 89 Other 1 (13 ) 14 Total Corporate $ (1,116 ) $ (752 ) $ (364 ) Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Oilseeds Processing operating profit increased 9% to $1.7 billion. Crushing and Origination results increased $91 million to $925 million. Improved North American crushing results, particularly for cotton seed and canola, were partially offset by lower crushing margins in South America and Europe. Margins globally were enhanced by good positioning and by improved origination results. In South America, fertilizer results improved due to higher margins and volumes. Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel and Other results increased $42 million to $342 million due principally to higher packaged oils margins and improved North American and European biodiesel results. Cocoa and Other results increased $114 million to $240 million primarily due to the $71 million gain on the revaluation of the Companys equity interest in Golden Peanut and higher peanut profits as a result of the December 31, 2010 acquisition of the remaining 50% interest of Golden Peanut. Asia results decreased $108 million due principally to decreased earnings from the Companys equity investee, Wilmar. Corn Processing operating profit increased 46% to $1.1 billion, which includes favorable impacts from ownership positions, which were allocated to sweeteners and starches and bioproducts based on total grind. Sweeteners and Starches operating profit decreased $208 million to $330 million due to higher net corn costs partially offset by higher sales volumes. Sales volumes increased due to U.S. export shipments of sweeteners and improved U.S. demand for industrial starches. Bioproducts operating profit improved $549 million primarily due to higher ethanol sales volumes and higher average selling prices leading to increased ethanol and lysine margins. Bioproducts margins were also enhanced by favorable corn ownership positions. Bioproducts results included startup costs related to the Companys new plants of $94 million in 2011 compared to $107 million in the prior year. Agricultural Services operating profit increased 32% to $1.3 billion. Merchandising and Handling results increased due to higher corn and wheat sales volumes and higher margins. A large 2010 U.S. harvest combined with strong international demand resulted in higher U.S. export shipments. Merchandising and Handling results in 2011 included an insurance recovery of $67 million related to property damage and business interruption resulting from an October 2008 explosion at the Companys Destrehan, LA, export facility. International merchandising results were weaker in part due to positions impacted by unexpected shifts in crop supply caused by weather conditions and government actions in the Black Sea region. Transportation results increased $21 million to $117 million primarily due to higher barge freight rates and higher barge utilization levels, in part due to higher U.S. export volumes. Milling and Other results improved due principally to increased equity earnings from the Companys equity investee, Gruma which include a $78 million gain related to Grumas disposal of certain assets. Other financial operating profit decreased 15% to $39 million primarily due to higher captive insurance loss provisions principally related to a $67 million loss related to the Companys Destrehan, LA, export facility insurance claim. Corporate results decreased $364 million primarily due to the negative impact from changing LIFO inventory valuations and higher interest expense net. The effects of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory reserves resulted in charges of $368 million compared to credits of $42 million for the prior year. Corporate interest expense increased $64 million mostly due to lower capitalization of interest costs for construction projects in progress. Partially offsetting the higher LIFO and interest costs were $30 million of gains on interest rate swaps compared to prior year losses on interest rate swaps of $59 million. In addition, 2010 included charges of $75 million on early debt extinguishment compared to $8 million of similar charges in 2011. Liquidity and Capital Resources A Company objective is to have sufficient liquidity, balance sheet strength, and financial flexibility to fund the operating and capital requirements of a capital intensive agricultural commodity based business. The primary source of funds to finance the Companys operations and capital expenditures is cash generated by operations and lines of credit, including a commercial paper borrowing facility. In addition, the Company believes it has access to funds from public and private equity and debt capital markets in both U.S. and international markets. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Cash provided by operating activities was $2.9 billion for the year compared to cash used in operating activities of $2.3 billion last year. Working capital decreased $0.3 billion since the beginning of fiscal 2012 due principally to the $1.0 billion account receivable securitization program discussed below. In fiscal 2011 working capital increased $5.2 billion due principally to higher agricultural commodity prices. Cash used in investing activities was $1.1 billion for the year compared to a $1.7 billion use last year. Capital expenditures were $1.5 billion for the year compared to $1.2 billion last year. The Company spent approximately $0.2 billion on acquisitions in fiscal 2012 and 2011. Related to the sale of the majority interest in Hickory Point Bank, the Company reduced its holdings of marketable securities generating cash of $0.3 billion and divested cash of $0.1 billion as a result of the deconsolidation. In fiscal 2011, net purchases of marketable securities used $0.3 billion of cash. Cash used in financing activities was $1.1 billion for the year compared to cash provided by financing activities of $3.6 billion last year. In fiscal 2012, the Company returned nearly $1.0 billion to shareholders in the form of dividends and share repurchases, including the acquisition of 18.4 million of its common shares for $0.5 billion. In fiscal 2011 net borrowings increased primarily to fund higher working capital. Short term borrowings increased due principally to higher commercial paper borrowings, and long term borrowings increased primarily as a result of the issuance of $1.5 billion of 18 month floating rate notes in February 2011. In addition the Company issued 44 million shares of common stock and received $1.75 billion in fiscal 2011 under the forward stock purchase component of the Companys Equity Units (see Note 10 in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data). At June 30, 2012, the Company had $1.5 billion of cash, cash equivalents, and short term marketable securities and a current ratio, defined as current assets divided by current liabilities, of 1.8 to 1. Included in working capital is $7.8 billion of readily marketable commodity inventories. At June 30, 2012, the Companys capital resources included net worth of $18.2 billion and lines of credit totaling $6.5 billion, of which $4.4 billion was unused. The Companys ratio of long term debt to total capital (the sum of the Companys long term debt and shareholders equity) was 26% at June 30, 2012 and 30% at June 30, 2011. This ratio is a measure of the Companys long term indebtedness and is an indicator of financial flexibility. Of the Companys total lines of credit, $4.3 billion support a commercial paper borrowing facility, against which there were $1.3 billion of commercial paper outstanding at June 30, 2012. In August 2012, the Company added a $2.0 billion credit facility which will support commercial paper borrowings. On March 27, 2012, the Company entered into an amendment of its accounts receivable securitization program (as amended, the Program) with certain commercial paper conduit purchasers and committed purchasers (collectively, the Purchasers). The Program provides the Company with up to $1.0 billion in funding against accounts receivable transferred into the Program and expands the Companys access to liquidity through efficient use of its balance sheet assets. Under the Program, certain U.S. originated trade accounts receivable are sold to a wholly owned bankruptcy remote entity, ADM Receivables, LLC (ADM Receivables). ADM Receivables in turn transfers such purchased accounts receivable in their entirety to the Purchasers pursuant to a receivables purchase agreement. In exchange for the transfer of the accounts receivable, ADM Receivables receives a cash payment of up to $1.0 billion and an additional amount upon the collection of the accounts receivable (deferred consideration). ADM Receivables uses the cash proceeds from the transfer of receivables to the Purchasers and other consideration to finance the purchase of receivables from the Company and the ADM subsidiaries originating the receivables. The Company acts as master servicer, responsible for servicing and collecting the accounts receivable under the Program. The Program terminates on June 28, 2013 (see Note 20 for more information and disclosures on the Program). As of June 30, 2012, the fair value of trade receivables transferred to the Purchasers under the Program and derecognized from the Companys consolidated balance sheet was $1.6 billion. In exchange for the transfer, the Company received cash of $1.0 billion and recorded a receivable for deferred consideration included in other current assets. The Company has outstanding $1.4 billion principal amount of floating rate notes due on August 13, 2012. Interest on the notes accrues at a floating rate three month LIBOR reset quarterly plus 0.16% and is paid quarterly. As of June 30, 2012, the interest rate on the notes was 0.63%. In August 2012, the Company paid these notes with funds available from short term borrowings. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) The Company has outstanding $1.15 billion principal amount of convertible senior notes. As of June 30, 2012, none of the conditions permitting conversion of these notes had been satisfied. The Company has purchased call options and warrants intended to reduce the potential shareholder dilution upon future conversion of the notes. As of June 30, 2012, the market price of the Companys common stock was not greater than the exercise price of the purchased call options or warrants related to the convertible senior notes. The Company is currently experiencing generally higher prices for agricultural commodities as a result of tightening crop supplies, mostly due to weather impacts on current year U.S. corn and soybean crop production. Higher prices of commodities have historically correlated with increases in the Companys working capital requirements. The Company depends on access to credit markets, which can be impacted by its credit rating and factors outside of the Companys control, such as the European debt situation, to fund its working capital needs and capital expenditures. The Company expects capital expenditures to range from $0.5 billion to $0.6 billion for the upcoming 6 month period ending December 31, 2012. On November 5, 2009, the Companys Board of Directors approved a stock repurchase program authorizing the Company to repurchase up to 100,000,000 shares of the Companys common stock during the period commencing January 1, 2010 and ending December 31, 2014. The Company has acquired approximately 31.6 million shares under this program, resulting in remaining approval to acquire 68.4 million shares. The Companys credit facilities and certain debentures require the Company to comply with specified financial and non financial covenants including maintenance of minimum tangible net worth as well as limitations related to incurring liens, secured debt, and certain other financing arrangements. The Company is in compliance with these covenants as of June 30, 2012. Contractual Obligations In the normal course of business, the Company enters into contracts and commitments which obligate the Company to make payments in the future. The following table sets forth the Companys significant future obligations by time period. Purchases include commodity based contracts entered into in the normal course of business, which are further described in Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, energy related purchase contracts entered into in the normal course of business, and other purchase obligations related to the Companys normal business activities. The following table does not include unrecognized income tax benefits of $80 million as of June 30, 2012 as the Company is unable to reasonably estimate the timing of settlement. Where applicable, information included in the Companys consolidated financial statements and notes is cross referenced in this table. Payments Due by Period Contractual Item 8 Note Less than 1 3 3 5 More than Obligations Reference Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years (In millions) Purchases Inventories $ 17,724 $ 17,307 $ 211 $ 130 $ 76 Energy 866 390 233 87 156 Other 242 145 86 10 1 Total purchases 18,832 17,842 530 227 233 Short term debt 2,108 2,108 Long term debt Note 10 8,212 1,677 1,114 320 5,101 Estimated interest payments 6,688 374 650 636 5,028 Operating leases Note 16 1,135 244 365 263 263 Estimated pension and other postretirement plan contributions (1) Note 17 188 64 23 25 76 Total $ 37,163 $ 22,309 $ 2,682 $ 1,471 $ 10,701 (1) Includes pension contributions of $53 million for fiscal 2013. The Company is unable to estimate the amount of pension contributions beyond fiscal year 2013. For more information concerning the Companys pension and other postretirement plans, see Note 17 in Item 8. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) At June 30, 2012, the Company estimates it will spend approximately $2.1 billion through calendar year 2015 to complete currently approved capital projects which are not included in the table above. The Company also has outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds of $644 million at June 30, 2012. In addition, the Company has entered into agreements, primarily debt guarantee agreements related to equity method investees, which could obligate the Company to make future payments. The Companys liability under these agreements arises only if the primary entity fails to perform its contractual obligation. The Company has collateral for a portion of these contingent obligations. At June 30, 2012, these contingent obligations totaled approximately $30 million. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements On March 27, 2012, the Company entered into an amendment of its accounts receivable securitization program (as amended, the Program) with certain commercial paper conduit purchasers and committed purchasers (collectively, the Purchasers). Under the Program, certain U.S. originated trade accounts receivable are sold to a wholly owned bankruptcy remote entity, ADM Receivables, LLC (ADM Receivables). ADM Receivables in turn transfers such purchased accounts receivable in their entirety to the Purchasers pursuant to a receivables purchase agreement. In exchange for the transfer of the accounts receivable, ADM Receivables receives a cash payment of up to $1.0 billion and an additional amount upon the collection of the accounts receivable (deferred consideration). ADM Receivables uses the cash proceeds from the transfer of receivables to the Purchasers and other consideration to finance the purchase of receivables from the Company and the ADM subsidiaries originating the receivables. The Company accounts for these transfers as sales. The Company has no retained interests in the transferred receivables, other than collection and administrative responsibilities and its right to the deferred consideration. At June 30, 2012, the Company did not record a servicing asset or liability related to its retained responsibility, based on its assessment of the servicing fee, market values for similar transactions and its cost of servicing the receivables sold. The Program terminates on June 28, 2013. As of June 30, 2012, the fair value of trade receivables transferred to the Purchasers under the Program and derecognized from the Companys consolidated balance sheet was $1.6 billion. In exchange for the transfer, the Company received cash of $1.0 billion and recorded a receivable for deferred consideration included in other current assets. Cash collections from customers on receivables sold were $8.9 billion for the four months ended June 30, 2012. Of this amount, $8.9 billion pertains to cash collections on the deferred consideration. Deferred consideration is paid to the Company in cash on behalf of the Purchasers as receivables are collected; however, as this is a revolving facility, cash collected from the Companys customers is reinvested by the Purchasers daily in new receivable purchases under the Program. The Companys risk of loss following the transfer of accounts receivable under the Program is limited to the deferred consideration outstanding, which is classified as other current assets and was $0.6 billion at June 30, 2012. The Company carries the deferred consideration at fair value determined by calculating the expected amount of cash to be received and is principally based on observable inputs (a Level 2 measurement under ASC 820) consisting mainly of the face amount of the receivables adjusted for anticipated credit losses and discounted at the appropriate market rate. Payment of deferred consideration is not subject to significant risks other than delinquencies and credit losses on accounts receivable transferred under the program which have historically been insignificant. Transfers of receivables under the Program during the year ended June 30, 2012 resulted in an expense for the loss on sale of $4 million which is classified as selling, general, and administrative expenses in the consolidated statements of earnings. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Critical Accounting Policies The process of preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the carrying values of the Companys assets and liabilities as well as the recognition of revenues and expenses. These estimates and judgments are based on the Companys historical experience and managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Certain of the Companys accounting policies are considered critical, as these policies are important to the depiction of the Companys financial statements and require significant or complex judgment by management. Management has discussed with the Companys Audit Committee the development, selection, disclosure, and application of these critical accounting policies. Following are the accounting policies management considers critical to the Companys financial statements. Fair Value Measurements Inventories and Derivatives Certain of the Companys assets and liabilities as of June 30, 2012 are valued at estimated fair values, including $6.8 billion of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, $3.1 billion of derivative assets, $3.0 billion of derivative liabilities, and $0.3 billion of inventory related payables. Derivative assets and liabilities include forward fixed price purchase and sale contracts for agricultural commodities, forward foreign exchange contracts, and over the counter instruments such as options contracts. The merchandisable agricultural commodities are freely traded, have quoted market prices, and may be sold without significant additional processing. Management estimates fair value for its commodity related assets and liabilities based on exchange quoted prices, adjusted for differences in local markets. The Companys fair value measurements are mainly based on observable market quotations without significant adjustments and are therefore reported as Level 1 or Level 2 within the fair value hierarchy. Level 3 fair value measurements represent fair value estimates where unobservable price components represent 10% or more of the total fair value price. For more information concerning amounts reported as Level 3, see Note 3 in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Changes in the market values of these inventories and contracts are recognized in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. If management used different methods or factors to estimate market value, amounts reported as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. Additionally, if market conditions change subsequent to year end, amounts reported in future periods as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. Derivatives Designated Hedging Activities The Company, from time to time, uses derivative contracts designated as cash flow hedges to fix the purchase price of anticipated volumes of commodities to be purchased and processed in a future month, to fix the purchase price of the Companys anticipated natural gas requirements for certain production facilities, and to fix the sales price of anticipated volumes of ethanol. These designated hedging programs principally relate to the Companys Corn Processing operating segment. The change in the market value of such derivative contracts has historically been, and is expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold and net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. If it is determined that the derivative instruments used are no longer effective at offsetting changes in the price of the hedged item, then the changes in the market value of these exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts would be recorded immediately in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. See Note 4 in Item 8 for additional information. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Investments in Affiliates The Company applies the equity method of accounting for investments over which the Company has the ability to exercise significant influence, including its 16.4% investment in Wilmar. These investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings and are adjusted, where appropriate, for amortizable basis differences between the investment balance and the underlying net assets of the investee. Generally, the minimum ownership threshold for asserting significant influence is 20% ownership of the investee. However, the Company considers all relevant factors in determining its ability to assert significant influence including but not limited to, ownership percentage, board membership, customer and vendor relationships, and other arrangements. If management used a different accounting method for these investments, then the amount of earnings from affiliates the Company recognizes may differ. Income Taxes The Company frequently faces challenges from U.S. and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company records reserves for estimates of potential additional tax owed by the Company. As an example, a subsidiary of the Company received tax assessments in the amount of $570 million consisting of tax, penalty, and interest (adjusted for interest and variation in currency exchange rates) from the Brazilian Federal Revenue Service challenging the deductibility of commodity hedging losses incurred by the Company for tax years 2004, 2006 and 2007. The Company evaluated its tax position regarding these hedging transactions and concluded, based in part upon advice from Brazilian legal counsel, that it was appropriate to recognize the tax benefits of these deductions (see Note 15 in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for additional information). Deferred tax assets represent items to be used as tax deductions or credits in future tax returns, and the related tax benefit has already been recognized in the Companys income statement. The realization of the Companys deferred tax assets is dependent upon future taxable income in specific tax jurisdictions, the timing and amount of which are uncertain. The Company evaluates all available positive and negative evidence including estimated future reversals of existing temporary differences, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies, and recent financial results. Valuation allowances related to these deferred tax assets have been established to the extent the realization of the tax benefit is not likely. To the extent the Company were to favorably resolve matters for which accruals have been established or be required to pay amounts in excess of the aforementioned reserves, the Companys effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be impacted. Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and the Companys share of the undistributed earnings of affiliated corporate joint venture companies accounted for on the equity method amounting to approximately $7.2 billion at June 30, 2012, are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Property, Plant, and Equipment and Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand, changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned factors may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and cash flows of the Companys assets in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its facilities. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment, technology, and companies related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. Assets are written down after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these assets, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. During 2012, 2011, and 2010, impairment charges were $367 million, $2 million, and $9 million, respectively (see Note 19 for additional information on charges taken in 2012). Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets Goodwill and intangible assets deemed to have indefinite lives are not amortized but are subject to annual impairment tests. The Company evaluates goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year or whenever there are indicators that the carrying value of the assets may not be fully recoverable. Definite lived intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives and are reviewed for impairment whenever there are indicators that the carrying value of the assets may not be fully recoverable. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its impairment tests, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Employee Benefit Plans The Company provides substantially all U.S. employees and employees at certain international subsidiaries with pension benefits. Eligible U.S. employees with five or more years of service prior to January 1, 2009 participate in a defined benefit pension plan. Eligible U.S. employees hired on or after January 1, 2009 (and eligible salaried employees with less than five years of service prior to January 1, 2009) participate in a cash balance pension formula. The Company provides eligible U.S. employees who retire under qualifying conditions with access to postretirement health care, at full cost to the retiree (certain employees are grandfathered into subsidized coverage). In order to measure the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans, management makes several estimates and assumptions, including interest rates used to discount certain liabilities, rates of return on assets set aside to fund these plans, rates of compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and anticipated future health care costs. These estimates and assumptions are based on the Companys historical experience combined with managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Management also uses third party actuaries to assist in measuring the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans. If management used different estimates and assumptions regarding these plans, the funded status of the plans could vary significantly, and the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. See Note 17 in Item 8 for additional information. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in: commodity market prices as they relate to the Companys net commodity position, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and prices of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to factors such as changes in weather conditions, crop disease, plantings, government programs and policies, competition, changes in global demand, changes in customer preferences and standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. The Company manages its exposure to adverse price movements of agricultural commodities used for, and produced in, its business operations, by entering into derivative and non derivative contracts which reduce the Companys overall short or long commodity position. Additionally, the Company uses exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the correlation between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contract defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company, from time to time, enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed designated hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold or net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. The Companys commodity position consists of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, related purchase and sales contracts, energy and freight contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts including contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements, net of sales. The fair value of the Companys commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing all of the commodity positions at quoted market prices for the period, where available, or utilizing a close proxy. The Company has established metrics to monitor the amount of market risk exposure, which consist of volumetric limits, and value at risk (VaR) limits. VaR measures the potential loss, at a 95% confidence level, that could be incurred over a one year period. Volumetric limits are monitored daily and VaR calculations and sensitivity analysis are monitored weekly. In addition to measuring the hypothetical loss resulting from an adverse two standard deviation move in market prices (assuming no correlations) over a one year period using VaR, sensitivity analysis is performed measuring the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in market prices. The highest, lowest, and average weekly position for each of the last two years together with the market risk from a hypothetical 10% adverse price change is as follows: 2012 2011 Long/(Short) Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest position $ 1,477 $ 148 $ 2,388 $ 239 Lowest position (383 ) (38 ) 368 37 Average position 546 55 1,644 164 The decline in fair value of the average position for 2012 compared to 2011 was principally the result of the decline in average quantities underlying the weekly commodity position. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) Currencies The Company has consolidated subsidiaries in over 75 countries. For the majority of the Companys subsidiaries located outside the United States, the local currency is the functional currency. To reduce the risks associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, the Company enters into currency exchange contracts to minimize its foreign currency position related to transactions denominated primarily in Euro, British pound, Canadian dollar, and Brazilian real currencies. These currencies represent the major functional or local currencies in which recurring business transactions occur. The Company does not use currency exchange contracts as hedges against amounts permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The currency exchange contracts used are forward contracts, swaps with banks, exchange traded futures contracts, and over the counter options. The changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $7.2 billion at June 30, 2012, and $8.2 billion at June 30, 2011. This decrease is due to the depreciation of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar partially offset by an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The potential loss in fair value, which would principally be recognized in Other Comprehensive Income, resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $722 million and $823 million for 2012 and 2011, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 50 basis points decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2012 2011 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 8,057 $ 9,108 Excess of fair value over carrying value 1,522 842 Market risk 422 333 The decrease in fair value of long term debt in 2012 resulted principally from the reclassification of $1.5 billion in floating rate notes to short term debt partially offset by decreased interest rates. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Net earnings attributable to controlling interests decreased $0.8 billion to $1.2 billion. Segment operating profit declined $1.6 billion to $2.5 billion amid more challenging conditions generally affecting all reportable segments. Segment operating profit in fiscal 2012 included $349 million of asset impairment charges and exit costs comprised of $335 million to exit the Companys Clinton, IA, bioplastics plant and $14 million to shut down its Walhalla, ND, ethanol dry mill. Earnings before income taxes included a credit of $10 million from the effect on LIFO inventory valuation reserves, including the liquidation of LIFO inventory layers, partially offset by increasing agricultural commodity prices, compared to charges of $368 million in the prior year. Fiscal 2012 unallocated corporate expenses included $71 million of charges related to the Companys global workforce reduction program. Income taxes decreased $0.5 billion due to lower earnings before income taxes and a lower effective income tax rate. The Companys effective income tax rate declined to 29.6% compared to 33.1% in the prior year primarily due to income tax benefits associated with foreign currency re measurement of non monetary assets partially offset by a geographic mix of earnings that shifted more to foreign jurisdictions. Analysis of Statements of Earnings Net sales and other operating income by segment are as follows: 2012 2011 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing and Origination $ 18,794 $ 16,518 $ 2,276 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel, and Other 11,628 9,476 2,152 Cocoa and Other 3,715 3,652 63 Asia 578 262 316 Total Oilseeds Processing 34,715 29,908 4,807 Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 4,793 3,766 1,027 Bioproducts 7,321 6,142 1,179 Total Corn Processing 12,114 9,908 2,206 Agricultural Services Merchandising and Handling 37,631 36,852 779 Transportation 269 222 47 Milling and Other 4,182 3,676 506 Total Agricultural Services 42,082 40,750 1,332 Other Financial 127 110 17 Total Other 127 110 17 Total $ 89,038 $ 80,676 $ 8,362 Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Net sales and other operating income increased $7.0 billion due to higher average selling prices, primarily related to higher underlying commodity costs, and $2.1 billion due to increased sales volumes, including sales volumes from acquisitions, partially offset by changes in foreign currency exchange rates of $0.7 billion. Oilseeds Processing sales increased 16% to $34.7 billion due principally to higher average selling prices of vegetable oils, merchandised commodities, protein meal, and biodiesel and increased sales volumes of biodiesel, protein meal, and peanuts, in part due to the acquisition of Golden Peanut in December 2010. Corn Processing sales increased 22% to $12.1 billion due principally to higher average selling prices of ethanol and sweeteners as well as higher sales volumes of sugar and ethanol. Agricultural Services sales increased 3% to $42.1 billion, due to higher average selling prices of corn and wheat flour partially offset by lower sales volumes, in part due to lower export volumes from the U.S. Cost of products sold increased 12% to $85.4 billion due principally to higher costs of agricultural commodities and, to a lesser extent, increased sales volumes. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates reduced current year cost of products sold by $0.7 billion. Manufacturing expenses increased $0.2 billion due to higher costs for maintenance, employee and benefit related expenses, energy, and chemicals. These higher costs were primarily due to higher production volumes, acquisitions, and higher unit costs for fuels and certain chemicals. Partially offsetting these higher costs was lower depreciation expense, in part due to the Companys change in estimated service lives for machinery and equipment during the second quarter of fiscal 2011. Selling, general, and administrative expenses remained steady at $1.6 billion. Loss provisions mainly due to an unfavorable arbitration award in the Companys Agricultural Services operating segment were partially offset by lower overhead expenses. Asset impairment, exit, and restructuring costs of $437 million were comprised of $349 million in the Corn Processing segment related to the Companys exit from its Clinton, IA, bioplastics business and ethanol dry mill in Walhalla, ND, $71 million in Corporate for the global workforce reduction, and $17 million in Corporate for investment writedown and other facility exit related costs. Interest expense decreased 9% to $441 million primarily due to lower long term debt balances, higher interest expense capitalized on construction projects in progress, and lower interest expense related to uncertain income tax positions. Equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates decreased 13% to $472 million principally due to decreased equity earnings from the Companys equity investee, Gruma, which included a $78 million gain in the prior year related to Grumas disposal of certain assets. Interest income declined 18% to $112 million primarily related to the sale and deconsolidation of the Bank, effective September 30, 2011. Other income net declined $113 million to $17 million due primarily to the absence of income recognized in the prior year period of $71 million for the Golden Peanut Gain and $30 million for gains on interest rate swaps. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Operating profit by segment is as follows: 2012 2011 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing and Origination $ 641 $ 925 $ (284 ) Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel, and Other 295 342 (47 ) Cocoa and Other 183 240 (57 ) Asia 183 183 Total Oilseeds Processing 1,302 1,690 (388 ) Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 335 330 5 Bioproducts (74 ) 749 (823 ) Total Corn Processing 261 1,079 (818 ) Agricultural Services Merchandising and Handling 493 807 (314 ) Transportation 125 117 8 Milling and Other 329 399 (70 ) Total Agricultural Services 947 1,323 (376 ) Other Financial 15 39 (24 ) Total Other 15 39 (24 ) Total Segment Operating Profit 2,525 4,131 (1,606 ) Corporate (see below) (760 ) (1,116 ) 356 Earnings Before Income Taxes $ 1,765 $ 3,015 $ (1,250 ) Corporate results are as follows: 2012 2011 Change (In millions) LIFO credit (charge) $ 10 $ (368 ) $ 378 Interest expense net (423 ) (445 ) 22 Unallocated corporate costs (360 ) (326 ) (34 ) Charges on early extinguishment of debt (4 ) (8 ) 4 Gains (losses) on interest rate swaps 30 (30 ) Other 17 1 16 Total Corporate $ (760 ) $ (1,116 ) $ 356 Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Oilseeds Processing operating profit decreased $0.4 billion to $1.3 billion. Crushing and Origination operating profit decreased $284 million to $641 million primarily due to weaker results in European softseeds, lower results in North American softseeds, and lower North American positioning results. Partially offsetting these lower results, were higher grain origination results in South America driven by higher volumes and favorable positioning. Poor European softseeds results were driven by a small prior year rapeseed crop, positioning losses, and weaker demand for protein meal and oils. North American softseed results declined primarily as a result of lower margins generated from a tight cottonseed supply. Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel, and Other results declined $47 million to $295 million due primarily to declines in biodiesel margins in South America and Europe and lower margins for specialty fats and oils in Europe. These declines were partially offset by improved North American protein specialties and natural health and nutrition results due to higher margins and volumes. Cocoa and Other results declined $57 million to $183 million. Current year results in Cocoa and Other were reduced by $100 million for net unrealized mark to market losses related to certain forward purchase and sales commitments accounted for as derivatives. Last year included $9 million of net unrealized mark to market losses. Excluding these timing effects, cocoa results improved in the current year driven by improved press margins caused by strong cocoa powder demand. The prior year included the $71 million Golden Peanut Gain which was partially offset this year by higher earnings in the Companys peanut business in part due to the first full year of consolidated results for Golden Peanut being reported by the Company in fiscal 2012. Asia results remained steady at $183 million, principally reflecting the Companys share of its results from equity investee, Wilmar. Corn Processing operating results decreased $818 million to $261 million due principally to poor ethanol margins and $349 million in asset impairment charges and exit costs. Excluding the asset impairment and exit costs related to the Companys bioplastics business and Walhalla, ND, ethanol dry grind facility, Corn Processing operating profit of $610 million in the current year represents a decline of $469 million compared to the prior year. Processed volumes were up 5 percent while net corn costs increased compared to last year. Sweeteners and Starches operating profit increased $5 million to $335 million, as higher average selling prices more than offset higher net corn costs. Bioproducts profit decreased $823 million to a loss of $74 million, including the $349 million asset impairment and exit charges. Lower ethanol margins were caused by excess supply as previously offline production restarted while industry demand declined, in part due to slowing export demand. Prior year bioproducts results were enhanced by favorable corn ownership positions, which lowered net corn costs in that period. Bioproducts results in the prior year were negatively impacted by startup costs of $94 million related to the Companys new dry grind ethanol, bioplastic, and glycol plants. Agricultural Services operating profits decreased $376 million to $947 million. Merchandising and Handling earnings decreased primarily due to lower results from U.S. operations. Lower sales volumes were principally the result of the relatively higher cost of U.S. grains and oilseeds in the global market due to lower stocks caused by a smaller U.S. harvest in 2011. This relatively weaker position led to reduced U.S. grain exports. In the prior year, Merchandising and Handling results were positively impacted by higher quantities of U.S. grain exports by the Company. In addition, fiscal 2012 included $40 million of increased loss provisions mainly due to an unfavorable arbitration award. Earnings from Transportation were steady. Last years operating results in Milling and Other operations included a $78 million gain related to Grumas disposal of certain assets. Other financial operating profit decreased $24 million to $15 million mainly due to higher loss provisions at the Companys captive insurance subsidiary related to property and crop risk reserves. Corporate expenses declined $356 million to $760 million this year. The effects of a liquidation of LIFO inventory layers partially offset by increasing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations resulted in a credit of $10 million in the current year compared to a charge of $368 million in the prior year primarily due to higher prices. Corporate interest expense decreased $22 million primarily due to lower interest expense on lower long term debt balances. Unallocated corporate costs include $71 million of costs related to the global workforce reduction program. Excluding these costs, unallocated corporate costs declined $37 million due primarily to lower administrative costs. Corporate other income increased due to higher investment income partially offset by $17 million for investment writedown and facility exit related costs. Also, in the prior year the Company recognized $30 million of gains on interest rate swaps. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) 2011 Compared to 2010 As an agricultural commodity based business, the Company is subject to a variety of market factors which affect the Companys operating results. In 2011, prices for certain agricultural commodities were higher in response to growing global demand and tighter crop supplies. The projections of lower 2011 carryover stocks for certain key commodities, coupled with regional crop supply dislocations for certain commodities, also led to high commodity price volatility. Global demand for agricultural commodities grew in 2011, resulting in increased sales volumes for most of the Companys products. The large 2010 North American harvest resulted in global merchandising, handling, and processing opportunities. Protein meal markets for commercial livestock producers in the U.S., particularly poultry producers, faced challenging conditions. Biodiesel markets in Europe and South America, together with the 2011 extension of the U.S. biodiesel blenders credit, helped support global demand for refined and crude vegetable oils. Sweeteners and starches demand remained strong in 2011 due primarily to U.S. exports of sweeteners and improved demand for industrial starches. Ethanol sales volumes, including increased volumes as the Companys new dry mills ramped up, were supported by favorable gasoline blending economics in the U.S. and good export demand. Net earnings increased $106 million to $2.0 billion due principally to a $794 million increase in segment operating profit partially offset by a negative impact from changing LIFO inventory valuations and higher income taxes. In 2011, the Company successfully managed through significant increases in market prices for most of its agricultural commodity raw materials, resulting in increased segment operating profit. Earnings before income taxes includes charges of $368 million from the effect of increasing agricultural commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuation reserves, compared to credits of $42 million in the prior year caused by decreasing agricultural commodity prices. Income taxes increased $331 million due to a higher effective income tax rate and higher earnings before income taxes. The effective income tax rate of 33.1% for 2011 was the result of changes in the geographic mix of earnings and unfavorable specific tax items. The fully diluted earnings per share calculation for 2011 was impacted by the completion of the Companys debt remarketing related to the $1.75 billion Equity Units. While the approximately 44 million new common shares related to the $1.75 billion Equity Units were not issued until June 1, 2011, the if converted method of accounting for diluted earnings per share required diluted EPS to be calculated as if the Company issued the shares on January 1, 2011, and this assumption resulted in a dilutive impact of $0.04 on earnings per share (See Note 11 in the accompanying consolidated financial statements). Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Analysis of Statements of Earnings Net sales and other operating income by segment are as follows: 2011 2010 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing and Origination $ 16,518 $ 14,411 $ 2,107 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel, and Other 9,476 7,133 2,343 Cocoa and Other 3,652 2,678 974 Asia 262 190 72 Total Oilseeds Processing 29,908 24,412 5,496 Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 3,766 3,264 502 Bioproducts 6,142 4,610 1,532 Total Corn Processing 9,908 7,874 2,034 Agricultural Services Merchandising and Handling 36,852 25,751 11,101 Transportation 222 167 55 Milling and Other 3,676 3,383 293 Total Agricultural Services 40,750 29,301 11,449 Other Financial 110 95 15 Total Other 110 95 15 Total $ 80,676 $ 61,682 $ 18,994 Net sales and other operating income increased $19.0 billion, or 31%, to $80.7 billion. Net sales and other operating income increased $14.2 billion due to higher average selling prices, primarily related to higher underlying commodity costs, and increased $4.8 billion due to increased sales volumes, including sales volumes from acquisitions. Agricultural Services sales increased 39% to $40.8 billion due to higher average selling prices of agricultural commodities and higher global sales volumes. Oilseeds Processing sales increased 23% to $29.9 billion primarily due to higher average selling prices for vegetable oils, soybeans, biodiesel, and protein meal. Corn Processing sales increased 26% to $9.9 billion due to higher average selling prices and increased sales volumes of ethanol and other corn products, in part due to the Companys two new ethanol dry mills coming on line. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Cost of products sold increased 32% to $76.4 billion due to higher costs of agricultural commodities, negative impacts resulting from changes in LIFO inventory valuations, and higher manufacturing costs. Cost of products sold includes charges of $368 million from the effect of increasing agricultural commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuation reserves, compared to credits of $42 million in the prior year caused by decreasing agricultural commodity prices. Manufacturing expenses increased $410 million due primarily to higher processed volumes, including the volumes of the Companys new greenfield operations coming on line, and higher average unit costs for certain chemicals and fuels used in the Companys processing and transportation operations. During the second quarter of fiscal 2011, the Company updated its estimates for service lives of certain of its machinery and equipment assets. This change in estimate resulted in a $133 million decrease in depreciation expense compared to the amount of depreciation expense the Company would have recorded using the previously estimated service lives. Manufacturing expenses included $94 million in fiscal 2011 related to the start up of new plants compared to $110 million in the prior year. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased 15% to $1.6 billion. This increase was due to higher employee related costs and higher administrative expenses. Higher employee related costs principally reflect the increase in number of employees during the year and included higher salaries and wages, higher accruals for performance based compensation and higher benefit expenses. Equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates declined 3% to $542 million. The decline in earnings from the Companys equity investee, Wilmar, was partially offset by higher earnings of the Companys equity investee, Gruma, in part due to a gain on Grumas disposition of certain assets. Interest income increased 8% to $136 million principally resulting from higher interest earned on advances to affiliates. Interest expense increased 14% to $482 million. Interest costs capitalized as a component of major construction projects in progress was $7 million compared to $75 million in the prior year. Interest incurred on long term debt declined $24 million as a result of debt retirements while interest incurred on short term debt increased $15 million due to higher average borrowings driven by higher working capital requirements. Other (income) expense net increased $255 million primarily due to the $71 million gain resulting from the revaluation of the Companys previously held equity interest in Golden Peanut upon acquisition of the remaining 50% interest, gains on interest rate swaps of $30 million compared to a loss of $59 million in the prior year, and a decrease in charges related to early extinguishment of debt from $75 million in the prior year to $15 million in the current year. Income taxes increased $331 million to $997 million due to a higher effective income tax rate and higher pretax earnings. The Companys effective income tax rate increased to 33.1% during 2011 compared to 25.8% in fiscal 2010. The increase in the 2011 rate was primarily due to a geographic mix of earnings that shifted more to the U.S., a higher U.S. effective income tax rate, income tax expense associated with foreign currency re measurement of non monetary assets in Brazil, and adjustments to deferred income tax balances. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Operating profit by segment is as follows: 2011 2010 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing and Origination $ 925 $ 834 $ 91 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel, and Other 342 300 42 Cocoa and Other 240 126 114 Asia 183 291 (108 ) Total Oilseeds Processing 1,690 1,551 139 Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 330 538 (208 ) Bioproducts 749 200 549 Total Corn Processing 1,079 738 341 Agricultural Services Merchandising and Handling 807 562 245 Transportation 117 96 21 Milling and Other 399 344 55 Total Agricultural Services 1,323 1,002 321 Other Financial 39 46 (7 ) Total Other 39 46 (7 ) Total Segment Operating Profit 4,131 3,337 794 Corporate (see below) (1,116 ) (752 ) (364 ) Earnings Before Income Taxes $ 3,015 $ 2,585 $ 430 Corporate results are as follows: 2011 2010 Change (In millions) LIFO credit $ (368 ) $ 42 $ (410 ) Interest expense net (445 ) (381 ) (64 ) Unallocated corporate costs (326 ) (266 ) (60 ) Charges on early extinguishment of debt (8 ) (75 ) 67 Gains (losses) on interest rate swaps 30 (59 ) 89 Other 1 (13 ) 14 Total Corporate $ (1,116 ) $ (752 ) $ (364 ) Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Oilseeds Processing operating profit increased 9% to $1.7 billion. Crushing and Origination results increased $91 million to $925 million. Improved North American crushing results, particularly for cotton seed and canola, were partially offset by lower crushing margins in South America and Europe. Margins globally were enhanced by good positioning and by improved origination results. In South America, fertilizer results improved due to higher margins and volumes. Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel and Other results increased $42 million to $342 million due principally to higher packaged oils margins and improved North American and European biodiesel results. Cocoa and Other results increased $114 million to $240 million primarily due to the $71 million gain on the revaluation of the Companys equity interest in Golden Peanut and higher peanut profits as a result of the December 31, 2010 acquisition of the remaining 50% interest of Golden Peanut. Asia results decreased $108 million due principally to decreased earnings from the Companys equity investee, Wilmar. Corn Processing operating profit increased 46% to $1.1 billion, which includes favorable impacts from ownership positions, which were allocated to sweeteners and starches and bioproducts based on total grind. Sweeteners and Starches operating profit decreased $208 million to $330 million due to higher net corn costs partially offset by higher sales volumes. Sales volumes increased due to U.S. export shipments of sweeteners and improved U.S. demand for industrial starches. Bioproducts operating profit improved $549 million primarily due to higher ethanol sales volumes and higher average selling prices leading to increased ethanol and lysine margins. Bioproducts margins were also enhanced by favorable corn ownership positions. Bioproducts results included startup costs related to the Companys new plants of $94 million in 2011 compared to $107 million in the prior year. Agricultural Services operating profit increased 32% to $1.3 billion. Merchandising and Handling results increased due to higher corn and wheat sales volumes and higher margins. A large 2010 U.S. harvest combined with strong international demand resulted in higher U.S. export shipments. Merchandising and Handling results in 2011 included an insurance recovery of $67 million related to property damage and business interruption resulting from an October 2008 explosion at the Companys Destrehan, LA, export facility. International merchandising results were weaker in part due to positions impacted by unexpected shifts in crop supply caused by weather conditions and government actions in the Black Sea region. Transportation results increased $21 million to $117 million primarily due to higher barge freight rates and higher barge utilization levels, in part due to higher U.S. export volumes. Milling and Other results improved due principally to increased equity earnings from the Companys equity investee, Gruma which include a $78 million gain related to Grumas disposal of certain assets. Other financial operating profit decreased 15% to $39 million primarily due to higher captive insurance loss provisions principally related to a $67 million loss related to the Companys Destrehan, LA, export facility insurance claim. Corporate results decreased $364 million primarily due to the negative impact from changing LIFO inventory valuations and higher interest expense net. The effects of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory reserves resulted in charges of $368 million compared to credits of $42 million for the prior year. Corporate interest expense increased $64 million mostly due to lower capitalization of interest costs for construction projects in progress. Partially offsetting the higher LIFO and interest costs were $30 million of gains on interest rate swaps compared to prior year losses on interest rate swaps of $59 million. In addition, 2010 included charges of $75 million on early debt extinguishment compared to $8 million of similar charges in 2011. Liquidity and Capital Resources A Company objective is to have sufficient liquidity, balance sheet strength, and financial flexibility to fund the operating and capital requirements of a capital intensive agricultural commodity based business. The primary source of funds to finance the Companys operations and capital expenditures is cash generated by operations and lines of credit, including a commercial paper borrowing facility. In addition, the Company believes it has access to funds from public and private equity and debt capital markets in both U.S. and international markets. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Cash provided by operating activities was $2.9 billion for the year compared to cash used in operating activities of $2.3 billion last year. Working capital decreased $0.3 billion since the beginning of fiscal 2012 due principally to the $1.0 billion account receivable securitization program discussed below. In fiscal 2011 working capital increased $5.2 billion due principally to higher agricultural commodity prices. Cash used in investing activities was $1.1 billion for the year compared to a $1.7 billion use last year. Capital expenditures were $1.5 billion for the year compared to $1.2 billion last year. The Company spent approximately $0.2 billion on acquisitions in fiscal 2012 and 2011. Related to the sale of the majority interest in Hickory Point Bank, the Company reduced its holdings of marketable securities generating cash of $0.3 billion and divested cash of $0.1 billion as a result of the deconsolidation. In fiscal 2011, net purchases of marketable securities used $0.3 billion of cash. Cash used in financing activities was $1.1 billion for the year compared to cash provided by financing activities of $3.6 billion last year. In fiscal 2012, the Company returned nearly $1.0 billion to shareholders in the form of dividends and share repurchases, including the acquisition of 18.4 million of its common shares for $0.5 billion. In fiscal 2011 net borrowings increased primarily to fund higher working capital. Short term borrowings increased due principally to higher commercial paper borrowings, and long term borrowings increased primarily as a result of the issuance of $1.5 billion of 18 month floating rate notes in February 2011. In addition the Company issued 44 million shares of common stock and received $1.75 billion in fiscal 2011 under the forward stock purchase component of the Companys Equity Units (see Note 10 in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data). At June 30, 2012, the Company had $1.5 billion of cash, cash equivalents, and short term marketable securities and a current ratio, defined as current assets divided by current liabilities, of 1.8 to 1. Included in working capital is $7.8 billion of readily marketable commodity inventories. At June 30, 2012, the Companys capital resources included net worth of $18.2 billion and lines of credit totaling $6.5 billion, of which $4.4 billion was unused. The Companys ratio of long term debt to total capital (the sum of the Companys long term debt and shareholders equity) was 26% at June 30, 2012 and 30% at June 30, 2011. This ratio is a measure of the Companys long term indebtedness and is an indicator of financial flexibility. Of the Companys total lines of credit, $4.3 billion support a commercial paper borrowing facility, against which there were $1.3 billion of commercial paper outstanding at June 30, 2012. In August 2012, the Company added a $2.0 billion credit facility which will support commercial paper borrowings. On March 27, 2012, the Company entered into an amendment of its accounts receivable securitization program (as amended, the Program) with certain commercial paper conduit purchasers and committed purchasers (collectively, the Purchasers). The Program provides the Company with up to $1.0 billion in funding against accounts receivable transferred into the Program and expands the Companys access to liquidity through efficient use of its balance sheet assets. Under the Program, certain U.S. originated trade accounts receivable are sold to a wholly owned bankruptcy remote entity, ADM Receivables, LLC (ADM Receivables). ADM Receivables in turn transfers such purchased accounts receivable in their entirety to the Purchasers pursuant to a receivables purchase agreement. In exchange for the transfer of the accounts receivable, ADM Receivables receives a cash payment of up to $1.0 billion and an additional amount upon the collection of the accounts receivable (deferred consideration). ADM Receivables uses the cash proceeds from the transfer of receivables to the Purchasers and other consideration to finance the purchase of receivables from the Company and the ADM subsidiaries originating the receivables. The Company acts as master servicer, responsible for servicing and collecting the accounts receivable under the Program. The Program terminates on June 28, 2013 (see Note 20 for more information and disclosures on the Program). As of June 30, 2012, the fair value of trade receivables transferred to the Purchasers under the Program and derecognized from the Companys consolidated balance sheet was $1.6 billion. In exchange for the transfer, the Company received cash of $1.0 billion and recorded a receivable for deferred consideration included in other current assets. The Company has outstanding $1.4 billion principal amount of floating rate notes due on August 13, 2012. Interest on the notes accrues at a floating rate three month LIBOR reset quarterly plus 0.16% and is paid quarterly. As of June 30, 2012, the interest rate on the notes was 0.63%. In August 2012, the Company paid these notes with funds available from short term borrowings. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) The Company has outstanding $1.15 billion principal amount of convertible senior notes. As of June 30, 2012, none of the conditions permitting conversion of these notes had been satisfied. The Company has purchased call options and warrants intended to reduce the potential shareholder dilution upon future conversion of the notes. As of June 30, 2012, the market price of the Companys common stock was not greater than the exercise price of the purchased call options or warrants related to the convertible senior notes. The Company is currently experiencing generally higher prices for agricultural commodities as a result of tightening crop supplies, mostly due to weather impacts on current year U.S. corn and soybean crop production. Higher prices of commodities have historically correlated with increases in the Companys working capital requirements. The Company depends on access to credit markets, which can be impacted by its credit rating and factors outside of the Companys control, such as the European debt situation, to fund its working capital needs and capital expenditures. The Company expects capital expenditures to range from $0.5 billion to $0.6 billion for the upcoming 6 month period ending December 31, 2012. On November 5, 2009, the Companys Board of Directors approved a stock repurchase program authorizing the Company to repurchase up to 100,000,000 shares of the Companys common stock during the period commencing January 1, 2010 and ending December 31, 2014. The Company has acquired approximately 31.6 million shares under this program, resulting in remaining approval to acquire 68.4 million shares. The Companys credit facilities and certain debentures require the Company to comply with specified financial and non financial covenants including maintenance of minimum tangible net worth as well as limitations related to incurring liens, secured debt, and certain other financing arrangements. The Company is in compliance with these covenants as of June 30, 2012. Contractual Obligations In the normal course of business, the Company enters into contracts and commitments which obligate the Company to make payments in the future. The following table sets forth the Companys significant future obligations by time period. Purchases include commodity based contracts entered into in the normal course of business, which are further described in Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, energy related purchase contracts entered into in the normal course of business, and other purchase obligations related to the Companys normal business activities. The following table does not include unrecognized income tax benefits of $80 million as of June 30, 2012 as the Company is unable to reasonably estimate the timing of settlement. Where applicable, information included in the Companys consolidated financial statements and notes is cross referenced in this table. Payments Due by Period Contractual Item 8 Note Less than 1 3 3 5 More than Obligations Reference Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years (In millions) Purchases Inventories $ 17,724 $ 17,307 $ 211 $ 130 $ 76 Energy 866 390 233 87 156 Other 242 145 86 10 1 Total purchases 18,832 17,842 530 227 233 Short term debt 2,108 2,108 Long term debt Note 10 8,212 1,677 1,114 320 5,101 Estimated interest payments 6,688 374 650 636 5,028 Operating leases Note 16 1,135 244 365 263 263 Estimated pension and other postretirement plan contributions (1) Note 17 188 64 23 25 76 Total $ 37,163 $ 22,309 $ 2,682 $ 1,471 $ 10,701 (1) Includes pension contributions of $53 million for fiscal 2013. The Company is unable to estimate the amount of pension contributions beyond fiscal year 2013. For more information concerning the Companys pension and other postretirement plans, see Note 17 in Item 8. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) At June 30, 2012, the Company estimates it will spend approximately $2.1 billion through calendar year 2015 to complete currently approved capital projects which are not included in the table above. The Company also has outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds of $644 million at June 30, 2012. In addition, the Company has entered into agreements, primarily debt guarantee agreements related to equity method investees, which could obligate the Company to make future payments. The Companys liability under these agreements arises only if the primary entity fails to perform its contractual obligation. The Company has collateral for a portion of these contingent obligations. At June 30, 2012, these contingent obligations totaled approximately $30 million. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements On March 27, 2012, the Company entered into an amendment of its accounts receivable securitization program (as amended, the Program) with certain commercial paper conduit purchasers and committed purchasers (collectively, the Purchasers). Under the Program, certain U.S. originated trade accounts receivable are sold to a wholly owned bankruptcy remote entity, ADM Receivables, LLC (ADM Receivables). ADM Receivables in turn transfers such purchased accounts receivable in their entirety to the Purchasers pursuant to a receivables purchase agreement. In exchange for the transfer of the accounts receivable, ADM Receivables receives a cash payment of up to $1.0 billion and an additional amount upon the collection of the accounts receivable (deferred consideration). ADM Receivables uses the cash proceeds from the transfer of receivables to the Purchasers and other consideration to finance the purchase of receivables from the Company and the ADM subsidiaries originating the receivables. The Company accounts for these transfers as sales. The Company has no retained interests in the transferred receivables, other than collection and administrative responsibilities and its right to the deferred consideration. At June 30, 2012, the Company did not record a servicing asset or liability related to its retained responsibility, based on its assessment of the servicing fee, market values for similar transactions and its cost of servicing the receivables sold. The Program terminates on June 28, 2013. As of June 30, 2012, the fair value of trade receivables transferred to the Purchasers under the Program and derecognized from the Companys consolidated balance sheet was $1.6 billion. In exchange for the transfer, the Company received cash of $1.0 billion and recorded a receivable for deferred consideration included in other current assets. Cash collections from customers on receivables sold were $8.9 billion for the four months ended June 30, 2012. Of this amount, $8.9 billion pertains to cash collections on the deferred consideration. Deferred consideration is paid to the Company in cash on behalf of the Purchasers as receivables are collected; however, as this is a revolving facility, cash collected from the Companys customers is reinvested by the Purchasers daily in new receivable purchases under the Program. The Companys risk of loss following the transfer of accounts receivable under the Program is limited to the deferred consideration outstanding, which is classified as other current assets and was $0.6 billion at June 30, 2012. The Company carries the deferred consideration at fair value determined by calculating the expected amount of cash to be received and is principally based on observable inputs (a Level 2 measurement under ASC 820) consisting mainly of the face amount of the receivables adjusted for anticipated credit losses and discounted at the appropriate market rate. Payment of deferred consideration is not subject to significant risks other than delinquencies and credit losses on accounts receivable transferred under the program which have historically been insignificant. Transfers of receivables under the Program during the year ended June 30, 2012 resulted in an expense for the loss on sale of $4 million which is classified as selling, general, and administrative expenses in the consolidated statements of earnings. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Critical Accounting Policies The process of preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the carrying values of the Companys assets and liabilities as well as the recognition of revenues and expenses. These estimates and judgments are based on the Companys historical experience and managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Certain of the Companys accounting policies are considered critical, as these policies are important to the depiction of the Companys financial statements and require significant or complex judgment by management. Management has discussed with the Companys Audit Committee the development, selection, disclosure, and application of these critical accounting policies. Following are the accounting policies management considers critical to the Companys financial statements. Fair Value Measurements Inventories and Derivatives Certain of the Companys assets and liabilities as of June 30, 2012 are valued at estimated fair values, including $6.8 billion of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, $3.1 billion of derivative assets, $3.0 billion of derivative liabilities, and $0.3 billion of inventory related payables. Derivative assets and liabilities include forward fixed price purchase and sale contracts for agricultural commodities, forward foreign exchange contracts, and over the counter instruments such as options contracts. The merchandisable agricultural commodities are freely traded, have quoted market prices, and may be sold without significant additional processing. Management estimates fair value for its commodity related assets and liabilities based on exchange quoted prices, adjusted for differences in local markets. The Companys fair value measurements are mainly based on observable market quotations without significant adjustments and are therefore reported as Level 1 or Level 2 within the fair value hierarchy. Level 3 fair value measurements represent fair value estimates where unobservable price components represent 10% or more of the total fair value price. For more information concerning amounts reported as Level 3, see Note 3 in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Changes in the market values of these inventories and contracts are recognized in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. If management used different methods or factors to estimate market value, amounts reported as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. Additionally, if market conditions change subsequent to year end, amounts reported in future periods as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. Derivatives Designated Hedging Activities The Company, from time to time, uses derivative contracts designated as cash flow hedges to fix the purchase price of anticipated volumes of commodities to be purchased and processed in a future month, to fix the purchase price of the Companys anticipated natural gas requirements for certain production facilities, and to fix the sales price of anticipated volumes of ethanol. These designated hedging programs principally relate to the Companys Corn Processing operating segment. The change in the market value of such derivative contracts has historically been, and is expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold and net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. If it is determined that the derivative instruments used are no longer effective at offsetting changes in the price of the hedged item, then the changes in the market value of these exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts would be recorded immediately in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. See Note 4 in Item 8 for additional information. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Investments in Affiliates The Company applies the equity method of accounting for investments over which the Company has the ability to exercise significant influence, including its 16.4% investment in Wilmar. These investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings and are adjusted, where appropriate, for amortizable basis differences between the investment balance and the underlying net assets of the investee. Generally, the minimum ownership threshold for asserting significant influence is 20% ownership of the investee. However, the Company considers all relevant factors in determining its ability to assert significant influence including but not limited to, ownership percentage, board membership, customer and vendor relationships, and other arrangements. If management used a different accounting method for these investments, then the amount of earnings from affiliates the Company recognizes may differ. Income Taxes The Company frequently faces challenges from U.S. and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company records reserves for estimates of potential additional tax owed by the Company. As an example, a subsidiary of the Company received tax assessments in the amount of $570 million consisting of tax, penalty, and interest (adjusted for interest and variation in currency exchange rates) from the Brazilian Federal Revenue Service challenging the deductibility of commodity hedging losses incurred by the Company for tax years 2004, 2006 and 2007. The Company evaluated its tax position regarding these hedging transactions and concluded, based in part upon advice from Brazilian legal counsel, that it was appropriate to recognize the tax benefits of these deductions (see Note 15 in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for additional information). Deferred tax assets represent items to be used as tax deductions or credits in future tax returns, and the related tax benefit has already been recognized in the Companys income statement. The realization of the Companys deferred tax assets is dependent upon future taxable income in specific tax jurisdictions, the timing and amount of which are uncertain. The Company evaluates all available positive and negative evidence including estimated future reversals of existing temporary differences, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies, and recent financial results. Valuation allowances related to these deferred tax assets have been established to the extent the realization of the tax benefit is not likely. To the extent the Company were to favorably resolve matters for which accruals have been established or be required to pay amounts in excess of the aforementioned reserves, the Companys effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be impacted. Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and the Companys share of the undistributed earnings of affiliated corporate joint venture companies accounted for on the equity method amounting to approximately $7.2 billion at June 30, 2012, are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Property, Plant, and Equipment and Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand, changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned factors may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and cash flows of the Companys assets in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its facilities. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment, technology, and companies related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. Assets are written down after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these assets, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. During 2012, 2011, and 2010, impairment charges were $367 million, $2 million, and $9 million, respectively (see Note 19 for additional information on charges taken in 2012). Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets Goodwill and intangible assets deemed to have indefinite lives are not amortized but are subject to annual impairment tests. The Company evaluates goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year or whenever there are indicators that the carrying value of the assets may not be fully recoverable. Definite lived intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives and are reviewed for impairment whenever there are indicators that the carrying value of the assets may not be fully recoverable. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its impairment tests, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Employee Benefit Plans The Company provides substantially all U.S. employees and employees at certain international subsidiaries with pension benefits. Eligible U.S. employees with five or more years of service prior to January 1, 2009 participate in a defined benefit pension plan. Eligible U.S. employees hired on or after January 1, 2009 (and eligible salaried employees with less than five years of service prior to January 1, 2009) participate in a cash balance pension formula. The Company provides eligible U.S. employees who retire under qualifying conditions with access to postretirement health care, at full cost to the retiree (certain employees are grandfathered into subsidized coverage). In order to measure the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans, management makes several estimates and assumptions, including interest rates used to discount certain liabilities, rates of return on assets set aside to fund these plans, rates of compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and anticipated future health care costs. These estimates and assumptions are based on the Companys historical experience combined with managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Management also uses third party actuaries to assist in measuring the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans. If management used different estimates and assumptions regarding these plans, the funded status of the plans could vary significantly, and the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. See Note 17 in Item 8 for additional information. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in: commodity market prices as they relate to the Companys net commodity position, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and prices of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to factors such as changes in weather conditions, crop disease, plantings, government programs and policies, competition, changes in global demand, changes in customer preferences and standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. The Company manages its exposure to adverse price movements of agricultural commodities used for, and produced in, its business operations, by entering into derivative and non derivative contracts which reduce the Companys overall short or long commodity position. Additionally, the Company uses exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the correlation between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contract defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company, from time to time, enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed designated hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold or net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. The Companys commodity position consists of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, related purchase and sales contracts, energy and freight contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts including contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements, net of sales. The fair value of the Companys commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing all of the commodity positions at quoted market prices for the period, where available, or utilizing a close proxy. The Company has established metrics to monitor the amount of market risk exposure, which consist of volumetric limits, and value at risk (VaR) limits. VaR measures the potential loss, at a 95% confidence level, that could be incurred over a one year period. Volumetric limits are monitored daily and VaR calculations and sensitivity analysis are monitored weekly. In addition to measuring the hypothetical loss resulting from an adverse two standard deviation move in market prices (assuming no correlations) over a one year period using VaR, sensitivity analysis is performed measuring the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in market prices. The highest, lowest, and average weekly position for each of the last two years together with the market risk from a hypothetical 10% adverse price change is as follows: 2012 2011 Long/(Short) Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest position $ 1,477 $ 148 $ 2,388 $ 239 Lowest position (383 ) (38 ) 368 37 Average position 546 55 1,644 164 The decline in fair value of the average position for 2012 compared to 2011 was principally the result of the decline in average quantities underlying the weekly commodity position. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) Currencies The Company has consolidated subsidiaries in over 75 countries. For the majority of the Companys subsidiaries located outside the United States, the local currency is the functional currency. To reduce the risks associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, the Company enters into currency exchange contracts to minimize its foreign currency position related to transactions denominated primarily in Euro, British pound, Canadian dollar, and Brazilian real currencies. These currencies represent the major functional or local currencies in which recurring business transactions occur. The Company does not use currency exchange contracts as hedges against amounts permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The currency exchange contracts used are forward contracts, swaps with banks, exchange traded futures contracts, and over the counter options. The changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $7.2 billion at June 30, 2012, and $8.2 billion at June 30, 2011. This decrease is due to the depreciation of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar partially offset by an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The potential loss in fair value, which would principally be recognized in Other Comprehensive Income, resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $722 million and $823 million for 2012 and 2011, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 50 basis points decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2012 2011 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 8,057 $ 9,108 Excess of fair value over carrying value 1,522 842 Market risk 422 333 The decrease in fair value of long term debt in 2012 resulted principally from the reclassification of $1.5 billion in floating rate notes to short term debt partially offset by decreased interest rates. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Net sales and other operating income increased $7.0 billion due to higher average selling prices, primarily related to higher underlying commodity costs, and $2.1 billion due to increased sales volumes, including sales volumes from acquisitions, partially offset by changes in foreign currency exchange rates of $0.7 billion. Oilseeds Processing sales increased 16% to $34.7 billion due principally to higher average selling prices of vegetable oils, merchandised commodities, protein meal, and biodiesel and increased sales volumes of biodiesel, protein meal, and peanuts, in part due to the acquisition of Golden Peanut in December 2010. Corn Processing sales increased 22% to $12.1 billion due principally to higher average selling prices of ethanol and sweeteners as well as higher sales volumes of sugar and ethanol. Agricultural Services sales increased 3% to $42.1 billion, due to higher average selling prices of corn and wheat flour partially offset by lower sales volumes, in part due to lower export volumes from the U.S. Cost of products sold increased 12% to $85.4 billion due principally to higher costs of agricultural commodities and, to a lesser extent, increased sales volumes. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates reduced current year cost of products sold by $0.7 billion. Manufacturing expenses increased $0.2 billion due to higher costs for maintenance, employee and benefit related expenses, energy, and chemicals. These higher costs were primarily due to higher production volumes, acquisitions, and higher unit costs for fuels and certain chemicals. Partially offsetting these higher costs was lower depreciation expense, in part due to the Companys change in estimated service lives for machinery and equipment during the second quarter of fiscal 2011. Selling, general, and administrative expenses remained steady at $1.6 billion. Loss provisions mainly due to an unfavorable arbitration award in the Companys Agricultural Services operating segment were partially offset by lower overhead expenses. Asset impairment, exit, and restructuring costs of $437 million were comprised of $349 million in the Corn Processing segment related to the Companys exit from its Clinton, IA, bioplastics business and ethanol dry mill in Walhalla, ND, $71 million in Corporate for the global workforce reduction, and $17 million in Corporate for investment writedown and other facility exit related costs. Interest expense decreased 9% to $441 million primarily due to lower long term debt balances, higher interest expense capitalized on construction projects in progress, and lower interest expense related to uncertain income tax positions. Equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates decreased 13% to $472 million principally due to decreased equity earnings from the Companys equity investee, Gruma, which included a $78 million gain in the prior year related to Grumas disposal of certain assets. Interest income declined 18% to $112 million primarily related to the sale and deconsolidation of the Bank, effective September 30, 2011. Other income net declined $113 million to $17 million due primarily to the absence of income recognized in the prior year period of $71 million for the Golden Peanut Gain and $30 million for gains on interest rate swaps. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Operating profit by segment is as follows: 2012 2011 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing and Origination $ 641 $ 925 $ (284 ) Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel, and Other 295 342 (47 ) Cocoa and Other 183 240 (57 ) Asia 183 183 Total Oilseeds Processing 1,302 1,690 (388 ) Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 335 330 5 Bioproducts (74 ) 749 (823 ) Total Corn Processing 261 1,079 (818 ) Agricultural Services Merchandising and Handling 493 807 (314 ) Transportation 125 117 8 Milling and Other 329 399 (70 ) Total Agricultural Services 947 1,323 (376 ) Other Financial 15 39 (24 ) Total Other 15 39 (24 ) Total Segment Operating Profit 2,525 4,131 (1,606 ) Corporate (see below) (760 ) (1,116 ) 356 Earnings Before Income Taxes $ 1,765 $ 3,015 $ (1,250 ) Corporate results are as follows: 2012 2011 Change (In millions) LIFO credit (charge) $ 10 $ (368 ) $ 378 Interest expense net (423 ) (445 ) 22 Unallocated corporate costs (360 ) (326 ) (34 ) Charges on early extinguishment of debt (4 ) (8 ) 4 Gains (losses) on interest rate swaps 30 (30 ) Other 17 1 16 Total Corporate $ (760 ) $ (1,116 ) $ 356 Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Oilseeds Processing operating profit decreased $0.4 billion to $1.3 billion. Crushing and Origination operating profit decreased $284 million to $641 million primarily due to weaker results in European softseeds, lower results in North American softseeds, and lower North American positioning results. Partially offsetting these lower results, were higher grain origination results in South America driven by higher volumes and favorable positioning. Poor European softseeds results were driven by a small prior year rapeseed crop, positioning losses, and weaker demand for protein meal and oils. North American softseed results declined primarily as a result of lower margins generated from a tight cottonseed supply. Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel, and Other results declined $47 million to $295 million due primarily to declines in biodiesel margins in South America and Europe and lower margins for specialty fats and oils in Europe. These declines were partially offset by improved North American protein specialties and natural health and nutrition results due to higher margins and volumes. Cocoa and Other results declined $57 million to $183 million. Current year results in Cocoa and Other were reduced by $100 million for net unrealized mark to market losses related to certain forward purchase and sales commitments accounted for as derivatives. Last year included $9 million of net unrealized mark to market losses. Excluding these timing effects, cocoa results improved in the current year driven by improved press margins caused by strong cocoa powder demand. The prior year included the $71 million Golden Peanut Gain which was partially offset this year by higher earnings in the Companys peanut business in part due to the first full year of consolidated results for Golden Peanut being reported by the Company in fiscal 2012. Asia results remained steady at $183 million, principally reflecting the Companys share of its results from equity investee, Wilmar. Corn Processing operating results decreased $818 million to $261 million due principally to poor ethanol margins and $349 million in asset impairment charges and exit costs. Excluding the asset impairment and exit costs related to the Companys bioplastics business and Walhalla, ND, ethanol dry grind facility, Corn Processing operating profit of $610 million in the current year represents a decline of $469 million compared to the prior year. Processed volumes were up 5 percent while net corn costs increased compared to last year. Sweeteners and Starches operating profit increased $5 million to $335 million, as higher average selling prices more than offset higher net corn costs. Bioproducts profit decreased $823 million to a loss of $74 million, including the $349 million asset impairment and exit charges. Lower ethanol margins were caused by excess supply as previously offline production restarted while industry demand declined, in part due to slowing export demand. Prior year bioproducts results were enhanced by favorable corn ownership positions, which lowered net corn costs in that period. Bioproducts results in the prior year were negatively impacted by startup costs of $94 million related to the Companys new dry grind ethanol, bioplastic, and glycol plants. Agricultural Services operating profits decreased $376 million to $947 million. Merchandising and Handling earnings decreased primarily due to lower results from U.S. operations. Lower sales volumes were principally the result of the relatively higher cost of U.S. grains and oilseeds in the global market due to lower stocks caused by a smaller U.S. harvest in 2011. This relatively weaker position led to reduced U.S. grain exports. In the prior year, Merchandising and Handling results were positively impacted by higher quantities of U.S. grain exports by the Company. In addition, fiscal 2012 included $40 million of increased loss provisions mainly due to an unfavorable arbitration award. Earnings from Transportation were steady. Last years operating results in Milling and Other operations included a $78 million gain related to Grumas disposal of certain assets. Other financial operating profit decreased $24 million to $15 million mainly due to higher loss provisions at the Companys captive insurance subsidiary related to property and crop risk reserves. Corporate expenses declined $356 million to $760 million this year. The effects of a liquidation of LIFO inventory layers partially offset by increasing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations resulted in a credit of $10 million in the current year compared to a charge of $368 million in the prior year primarily due to higher prices. Corporate interest expense decreased $22 million primarily due to lower interest expense on lower long term debt balances. Unallocated corporate costs include $71 million of costs related to the global workforce reduction program. Excluding these costs, unallocated corporate costs declined $37 million due primarily to lower administrative costs. Corporate other income increased due to higher investment income partially offset by $17 million for investment writedown and facility exit related costs. Also, in the prior year the Company recognized $30 million of gains on interest rate swaps. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) 2011 Compared to 2010 As an agricultural commodity based business, the Company is subject to a variety of market factors which affect the Companys operating results. In 2011, prices for certain agricultural commodities were higher in response to growing global demand and tighter crop supplies. The projections of lower 2011 carryover stocks for certain key commodities, coupled with regional crop supply dislocations for certain commodities, also led to high commodity price volatility. Global demand for agricultural commodities grew in 2011, resulting in increased sales volumes for most of the Companys products. The large 2010 North American harvest resulted in global merchandising, handling, and processing opportunities. Protein meal markets for commercial livestock producers in the U.S., particularly poultry producers, faced challenging conditions. Biodiesel markets in Europe and South America, together with the 2011 extension of the U.S. biodiesel blenders credit, helped support global demand for refined and crude vegetable oils. Sweeteners and starches demand remained strong in 2011 due primarily to U.S. exports of sweeteners and improved demand for industrial starches. Ethanol sales volumes, including increased volumes as the Companys new dry mills ramped up, were supported by favorable gasoline blending economics in the U.S. and good export demand. Net earnings increased $106 million to $2.0 billion due principally to a $794 million increase in segment operating profit partially offset by a negative impact from changing LIFO inventory valuations and higher income taxes. In 2011, the Company successfully managed through significant increases in market prices for most of its agricultural commodity raw materials, resulting in increased segment operating profit. Earnings before income taxes includes charges of $368 million from the effect of increasing agricultural commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuation reserves, compared to credits of $42 million in the prior year caused by decreasing agricultural commodity prices. Income taxes increased $331 million due to a higher effective income tax rate and higher earnings before income taxes. The effective income tax rate of 33.1% for 2011 was the result of changes in the geographic mix of earnings and unfavorable specific tax items. The fully diluted earnings per share calculation for 2011 was impacted by the completion of the Companys debt remarketing related to the $1.75 billion Equity Units. While the approximately 44 million new common shares related to the $1.75 billion Equity Units were not issued until June 1, 2011, the if converted method of accounting for diluted earnings per share required diluted EPS to be calculated as if the Company issued the shares on January 1, 2011, and this assumption resulted in a dilutive impact of $0.04 on earnings per share (See Note 11 in the accompanying consolidated financial statements). Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Analysis of Statements of Earnings Net sales and other operating income by segment are as follows: 2011 2010 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing and Origination $ 16,518 $ 14,411 $ 2,107 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel, and Other 9,476 7,133 2,343 Cocoa and Other 3,652 2,678 974 Asia 262 190 72 Total Oilseeds Processing 29,908 24,412 5,496 Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 3,766 3,264 502 Bioproducts 6,142 4,610 1,532 Total Corn Processing 9,908 7,874 2,034 Agricultural Services Merchandising and Handling 36,852 25,751 11,101 Transportation 222 167 55 Milling and Other 3,676 3,383 293 Total Agricultural Services 40,750 29,301 11,449 Other Financial 110 95 15 Total Other 110 95 15 Total $ 80,676 $ 61,682 $ 18,994 Net sales and other operating income increased $19.0 billion, or 31%, to $80.7 billion. Net sales and other operating income increased $14.2 billion due to higher average selling prices, primarily related to higher underlying commodity costs, and increased $4.8 billion due to increased sales volumes, including sales volumes from acquisitions. Agricultural Services sales increased 39% to $40.8 billion due to higher average selling prices of agricultural commodities and higher global sales volumes. Oilseeds Processing sales increased 23% to $29.9 billion primarily due to higher average selling prices for vegetable oils, soybeans, biodiesel, and protein meal. Corn Processing sales increased 26% to $9.9 billion due to higher average selling prices and increased sales volumes of ethanol and other corn products, in part due to the Companys two new ethanol dry mills coming on line. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Cost of products sold increased 32% to $76.4 billion due to higher costs of agricultural commodities, negative impacts resulting from changes in LIFO inventory valuations, and higher manufacturing costs. Cost of products sold includes charges of $368 million from the effect of increasing agricultural commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuation reserves, compared to credits of $42 million in the prior year caused by decreasing agricultural commodity prices. Manufacturing expenses increased $410 million due primarily to higher processed volumes, including the volumes of the Companys new greenfield operations coming on line, and higher average unit costs for certain chemicals and fuels used in the Companys processing and transportation operations. During the second quarter of fiscal 2011, the Company updated its estimates for service lives of certain of its machinery and equipment assets. This change in estimate resulted in a $133 million decrease in depreciation expense compared to the amount of depreciation expense the Company would have recorded using the previously estimated service lives. Manufacturing expenses included $94 million in fiscal 2011 related to the start up of new plants compared to $110 million in the prior year. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased 15% to $1.6 billion. This increase was due to higher employee related costs and higher administrative expenses. Higher employee related costs principally reflect the increase in number of employees during the year and included higher salaries and wages, higher accruals for performance based compensation and higher benefit expenses. Equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates declined 3% to $542 million. The decline in earnings from the Companys equity investee, Wilmar, was partially offset by higher earnings of the Companys equity investee, Gruma, in part due to a gain on Grumas disposition of certain assets. Interest income increased 8% to $136 million principally resulting from higher interest earned on advances to affiliates. Interest expense increased 14% to $482 million. Interest costs capitalized as a component of major construction projects in progress was $7 million compared to $75 million in the prior year. Interest incurred on long term debt declined $24 million as a result of debt retirements while interest incurred on short term debt increased $15 million due to higher average borrowings driven by higher working capital requirements. Other (income) expense net increased $255 million primarily due to the $71 million gain resulting from the revaluation of the Companys previously held equity interest in Golden Peanut upon acquisition of the remaining 50% interest, gains on interest rate swaps of $30 million compared to a loss of $59 million in the prior year, and a decrease in charges related to early extinguishment of debt from $75 million in the prior year to $15 million in the current year. Income taxes increased $331 million to $997 million due to a higher effective income tax rate and higher pretax earnings. The Companys effective income tax rate increased to 33.1% during 2011 compared to 25.8% in fiscal 2010. The increase in the 2011 rate was primarily due to a geographic mix of earnings that shifted more to the U.S., a higher U.S. effective income tax rate, income tax expense associated with foreign currency re measurement of non monetary assets in Brazil, and adjustments to deferred income tax balances. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Operating profit by segment is as follows: 2011 2010 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing and Origination $ 925 $ 834 $ 91 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel, and Other 342 300 42 Cocoa and Other 240 126 114 Asia 183 291 (108 ) Total Oilseeds Processing 1,690 1,551 139 Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 330 538 (208 ) Bioproducts 749 200 549 Total Corn Processing 1,079 738 341 Agricultural Services Merchandising and Handling 807 562 245 Transportation 117 96 21 Milling and Other 399 344 55 Total Agricultural Services 1,323 1,002 321 Other Financial 39 46 (7 ) Total Other 39 46 (7 ) Total Segment Operating Profit 4,131 3,337 794 Corporate (see below) (1,116 ) (752 ) (364 ) Earnings Before Income Taxes $ 3,015 $ 2,585 $ 430 Corporate results are as follows: 2011 2010 Change (In millions) LIFO credit $ (368 ) $ 42 $ (410 ) Interest expense net (445 ) (381 ) (64 ) Unallocated corporate costs (326 ) (266 ) (60 ) Charges on early extinguishment of debt (8 ) (75 ) 67 Gains (losses) on interest rate swaps 30 (59 ) 89 Other 1 (13 ) 14 Total Corporate $ (1,116 ) $ (752 ) $ (364 ) Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Oilseeds Processing operating profit increased 9% to $1.7 billion. Crushing and Origination results increased $91 million to $925 million. Improved North American crushing results, particularly for cotton seed and canola, were partially offset by lower crushing margins in South America and Europe. Margins globally were enhanced by good positioning and by improved origination results. In South America, fertilizer results improved due to higher margins and volumes. Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel and Other results increased $42 million to $342 million due principally to higher packaged oils margins and improved North American and European biodiesel results. Cocoa and Other results increased $114 million to $240 million primarily due to the $71 million gain on the revaluation of the Companys equity interest in Golden Peanut and higher peanut profits as a result of the December 31, 2010 acquisition of the remaining 50% interest of Golden Peanut. Asia results decreased $108 million due principally to decreased earnings from the Companys equity investee, Wilmar. Corn Processing operating profit increased 46% to $1.1 billion, which includes favorable impacts from ownership positions, which were allocated to sweeteners and starches and bioproducts based on total grind. Sweeteners and Starches operating profit decreased $208 million to $330 million due to higher net corn costs partially offset by higher sales volumes. Sales volumes increased due to U.S. export shipments of sweeteners and improved U.S. demand for industrial starches. Bioproducts operating profit improved $549 million primarily due to higher ethanol sales volumes and higher average selling prices leading to increased ethanol and lysine margins. Bioproducts margins were also enhanced by favorable corn ownership positions. Bioproducts results included startup costs related to the Companys new plants of $94 million in 2011 compared to $107 million in the prior year. Agricultural Services operating profit increased 32% to $1.3 billion. Merchandising and Handling results increased due to higher corn and wheat sales volumes and higher margins. A large 2010 U.S. harvest combined with strong international demand resulted in higher U.S. export shipments. Merchandising and Handling results in 2011 included an insurance recovery of $67 million related to property damage and business interruption resulting from an October 2008 explosion at the Companys Destrehan, LA, export facility. International merchandising results were weaker in part due to positions impacted by unexpected shifts in crop supply caused by weather conditions and government actions in the Black Sea region. Transportation results increased $21 million to $117 million primarily due to higher barge freight rates and higher barge utilization levels, in part due to higher U.S. export volumes. Milling and Other results improved due principally to increased equity earnings from the Companys equity investee, Gruma which include a $78 million gain related to Grumas disposal of certain assets. Other financial operating profit decreased 15% to $39 million primarily due to higher captive insurance loss provisions principally related to a $67 million loss related to the Companys Destrehan, LA, export facility insurance claim. Corporate results decreased $364 million primarily due to the negative impact from changing LIFO inventory valuations and higher interest expense net. The effects of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory reserves resulted in charges of $368 million compared to credits of $42 million for the prior year. Corporate interest expense increased $64 million mostly due to lower capitalization of interest costs for construction projects in progress. Partially offsetting the higher LIFO and interest costs were $30 million of gains on interest rate swaps compared to prior year losses on interest rate swaps of $59 million. In addition, 2010 included charges of $75 million on early debt extinguishment compared to $8 million of similar charges in 2011. Liquidity and Capital Resources A Company objective is to have sufficient liquidity, balance sheet strength, and financial flexibility to fund the operating and capital requirements of a capital intensive agricultural commodity based business. The primary source of funds to finance the Companys operations and capital expenditures is cash generated by operations and lines of credit, including a commercial paper borrowing facility. In addition, the Company believes it has access to funds from public and private equity and debt capital markets in both U.S. and international markets. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Cash provided by operating activities was $2.9 billion for the year compared to cash used in operating activities of $2.3 billion last year. Working capital decreased $0.3 billion since the beginning of fiscal 2012 due principally to the $1.0 billion account receivable securitization program discussed below. In fiscal 2011 working capital increased $5.2 billion due principally to higher agricultural commodity prices. Cash used in investing activities was $1.1 billion for the year compared to a $1.7 billion use last year. Capital expenditures were $1.5 billion for the year compared to $1.2 billion last year. The Company spent approximately $0.2 billion on acquisitions in fiscal 2012 and 2011. Related to the sale of the majority interest in Hickory Point Bank, the Company reduced its holdings of marketable securities generating cash of $0.3 billion and divested cash of $0.1 billion as a result of the deconsolidation. In fiscal 2011, net purchases of marketable securities used $0.3 billion of cash. Cash used in financing activities was $1.1 billion for the year compared to cash provided by financing activities of $3.6 billion last year. In fiscal 2012, the Company returned nearly $1.0 billion to shareholders in the form of dividends and share repurchases, including the acquisition of 18.4 million of its common shares for $0.5 billion. In fiscal 2011 net borrowings increased primarily to fund higher working capital. Short term borrowings increased due principally to higher commercial paper borrowings, and long term borrowings increased primarily as a result of the issuance of $1.5 billion of 18 month floating rate notes in February 2011. In addition the Company issued 44 million shares of common stock and received $1.75 billion in fiscal 2011 under the forward stock purchase component of the Companys Equity Units (see Note 10 in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data). At June 30, 2012, the Company had $1.5 billion of cash, cash equivalents, and short term marketable securities and a current ratio, defined as current assets divided by current liabilities, of 1.8 to 1. Included in working capital is $7.8 billion of readily marketable commodity inventories. At June 30, 2012, the Companys capital resources included net worth of $18.2 billion and lines of credit totaling $6.5 billion, of which $4.4 billion was unused. The Companys ratio of long term debt to total capital (the sum of the Companys long term debt and shareholders equity) was 26% at June 30, 2012 and 30% at June 30, 2011. This ratio is a measure of the Companys long term indebtedness and is an indicator of financial flexibility. Of the Companys total lines of credit, $4.3 billion support a commercial paper borrowing facility, against which there were $1.3 billion of commercial paper outstanding at June 30, 2012. In August 2012, the Company added a $2.0 billion credit facility which will support commercial paper borrowings. On March 27, 2012, the Company entered into an amendment of its accounts receivable securitization program (as amended, the Program) with certain commercial paper conduit purchasers and committed purchasers (collectively, the Purchasers). The Program provides the Company with up to $1.0 billion in funding against accounts receivable transferred into the Program and expands the Companys access to liquidity through efficient use of its balance sheet assets. Under the Program, certain U.S. originated trade accounts receivable are sold to a wholly owned bankruptcy remote entity, ADM Receivables, LLC (ADM Receivables). ADM Receivables in turn transfers such purchased accounts receivable in their entirety to the Purchasers pursuant to a receivables purchase agreement. In exchange for the transfer of the accounts receivable, ADM Receivables receives a cash payment of up to $1.0 billion and an additional amount upon the collection of the accounts receivable (deferred consideration). ADM Receivables uses the cash proceeds from the transfer of receivables to the Purchasers and other consideration to finance the purchase of receivables from the Company and the ADM subsidiaries originating the receivables. The Company acts as master servicer, responsible for servicing and collecting the accounts receivable under the Program. The Program terminates on June 28, 2013 (see Note 20 for more information and disclosures on the Program). As of June 30, 2012, the fair value of trade receivables transferred to the Purchasers under the Program and derecognized from the Companys consolidated balance sheet was $1.6 billion. In exchange for the transfer, the Company received cash of $1.0 billion and recorded a receivable for deferred consideration included in other current assets. The Company has outstanding $1.4 billion principal amount of floating rate notes due on August 13, 2012. Interest on the notes accrues at a floating rate three month LIBOR reset quarterly plus 0.16% and is paid quarterly. As of June 30, 2012, the interest rate on the notes was 0.63%. In August 2012, the Company paid these notes with funds available from short term borrowings. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) The Company has outstanding $1.15 billion principal amount of convertible senior notes. As of June 30, 2012, none of the conditions permitting conversion of these notes had been satisfied. The Company has purchased call options and warrants intended to reduce the potential shareholder dilution upon future conversion of the notes. As of June 30, 2012, the market price of the Companys common stock was not greater than the exercise price of the purchased call options or warrants related to the convertible senior notes. The Company is currently experiencing generally higher prices for agricultural commodities as a result of tightening crop supplies, mostly due to weather impacts on current year U.S. corn and soybean crop production. Higher prices of commodities have historically correlated with increases in the Companys working capital requirements. The Company depends on access to credit markets, which can be impacted by its credit rating and factors outside of the Companys control, such as the European debt situation, to fund its working capital needs and capital expenditures. The Company expects capital expenditures to range from $0.5 billion to $0.6 billion for the upcoming 6 month period ending December 31, 2012. On November 5, 2009, the Companys Board of Directors approved a stock repurchase program authorizing the Company to repurchase up to 100,000,000 shares of the Companys common stock during the period commencing January 1, 2010 and ending December 31, 2014. The Company has acquired approximately 31.6 million shares under this program, resulting in remaining approval to acquire 68.4 million shares. The Companys credit facilities and certain debentures require the Company to comply with specified financial and non financial covenants including maintenance of minimum tangible net worth as well as limitations related to incurring liens, secured debt, and certain other financing arrangements. The Company is in compliance with these covenants as of June 30, 2012. Contractual Obligations In the normal course of business, the Company enters into contracts and commitments which obligate the Company to make payments in the future. The following table sets forth the Companys significant future obligations by time period. Purchases include commodity based contracts entered into in the normal course of business, which are further described in Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, energy related purchase contracts entered into in the normal course of business, and other purchase obligations related to the Companys normal business activities. The following table does not include unrecognized income tax benefits of $80 million as of June 30, 2012 as the Company is unable to reasonably estimate the timing of settlement. Where applicable, information included in the Companys consolidated financial statements and notes is cross referenced in this table. Payments Due by Period Contractual Item 8 Note Less than 1 3 3 5 More than Obligations Reference Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years (In millions) Purchases Inventories $ 17,724 $ 17,307 $ 211 $ 130 $ 76 Energy 866 390 233 87 156 Other 242 145 86 10 1 Total purchases 18,832 17,842 530 227 233 Short term debt 2,108 2,108 Long term debt Note 10 8,212 1,677 1,114 320 5,101 Estimated interest payments 6,688 374 650 636 5,028 Operating leases Note 16 1,135 244 365 263 263 Estimated pension and other postretirement plan contributions (1) Note 17 188 64 23 25 76 Total $ 37,163 $ 22,309 $ 2,682 $ 1,471 $ 10,701 (1) Includes pension contributions of $53 million for fiscal 2013. The Company is unable to estimate the amount of pension contributions beyond fiscal year 2013. For more information concerning the Companys pension and other postretirement plans, see Note 17 in Item 8. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) At June 30, 2012, the Company estimates it will spend approximately $2.1 billion through calendar year 2015 to complete currently approved capital projects which are not included in the table above. The Company also has outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds of $644 million at June 30, 2012. In addition, the Company has entered into agreements, primarily debt guarantee agreements related to equity method investees, which could obligate the Company to make future payments. The Companys liability under these agreements arises only if the primary entity fails to perform its contractual obligation. The Company has collateral for a portion of these contingent obligations. At June 30, 2012, these contingent obligations totaled approximately $30 million. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements On March 27, 2012, the Company entered into an amendment of its accounts receivable securitization program (as amended, the Program) with certain commercial paper conduit purchasers and committed purchasers (collectively, the Purchasers). Under the Program, certain U.S. originated trade accounts receivable are sold to a wholly owned bankruptcy remote entity, ADM Receivables, LLC (ADM Receivables). ADM Receivables in turn transfers such purchased accounts receivable in their entirety to the Purchasers pursuant to a receivables purchase agreement. In exchange for the transfer of the accounts receivable, ADM Receivables receives a cash payment of up to $1.0 billion and an additional amount upon the collection of the accounts receivable (deferred consideration). ADM Receivables uses the cash proceeds from the transfer of receivables to the Purchasers and other consideration to finance the purchase of receivables from the Company and the ADM subsidiaries originating the receivables. The Company accounts for these transfers as sales. The Company has no retained interests in the transferred receivables, other than collection and administrative responsibilities and its right to the deferred consideration. At June 30, 2012, the Company did not record a servicing asset or liability related to its retained responsibility, based on its assessment of the servicing fee, market values for similar transactions and its cost of servicing the receivables sold. The Program terminates on June 28, 2013. As of June 30, 2012, the fair value of trade receivables transferred to the Purchasers under the Program and derecognized from the Companys consolidated balance sheet was $1.6 billion. In exchange for the transfer, the Company received cash of $1.0 billion and recorded a receivable for deferred consideration included in other current assets. Cash collections from customers on receivables sold were $8.9 billion for the four months ended June 30, 2012. Of this amount, $8.9 billion pertains to cash collections on the deferred consideration. Deferred consideration is paid to the Company in cash on behalf of the Purchasers as receivables are collected; however, as this is a revolving facility, cash collected from the Companys customers is reinvested by the Purchasers daily in new receivable purchases under the Program. The Companys risk of loss following the transfer of accounts receivable under the Program is limited to the deferred consideration outstanding, which is classified as other current assets and was $0.6 billion at June 30, 2012. The Company carries the deferred consideration at fair value determined by calculating the expected amount of cash to be received and is principally based on observable inputs (a Level 2 measurement under ASC 820) consisting mainly of the face amount of the receivables adjusted for anticipated credit losses and discounted at the appropriate market rate. Payment of deferred consideration is not subject to significant risks other than delinquencies and credit losses on accounts receivable transferred under the program which have historically been insignificant. Transfers of receivables under the Program during the year ended June 30, 2012 resulted in an expense for the loss on sale of $4 million which is classified as selling, general, and administrative expenses in the consolidated statements of earnings. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Critical Accounting Policies The process of preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the carrying values of the Companys assets and liabilities as well as the recognition of revenues and expenses. These estimates and judgments are based on the Companys historical experience and managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Certain of the Companys accounting policies are considered critical, as these policies are important to the depiction of the Companys financial statements and require significant or complex judgment by management. Management has discussed with the Companys Audit Committee the development, selection, disclosure, and application of these critical accounting policies. Following are the accounting policies management considers critical to the Companys financial statements. Fair Value Measurements Inventories and Derivatives Certain of the Companys assets and liabilities as of June 30, 2012 are valued at estimated fair values, including $6.8 billion of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, $3.1 billion of derivative assets, $3.0 billion of derivative liabilities, and $0.3 billion of inventory related payables. Derivative assets and liabilities include forward fixed price purchase and sale contracts for agricultural commodities, forward foreign exchange contracts, and over the counter instruments such as options contracts. The merchandisable agricultural commodities are freely traded, have quoted market prices, and may be sold without significant additional processing. Management estimates fair value for its commodity related assets and liabilities based on exchange quoted prices, adjusted for differences in local markets. The Companys fair value measurements are mainly based on observable market quotations without significant adjustments and are therefore reported as Level 1 or Level 2 within the fair value hierarchy. Level 3 fair value measurements represent fair value estimates where unobservable price components represent 10% or more of the total fair value price. For more information concerning amounts reported as Level 3, see Note 3 in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Changes in the market values of these inventories and contracts are recognized in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. If management used different methods or factors to estimate market value, amounts reported as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. Additionally, if market conditions change subsequent to year end, amounts reported in future periods as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. Derivatives Designated Hedging Activities The Company, from time to time, uses derivative contracts designated as cash flow hedges to fix the purchase price of anticipated volumes of commodities to be purchased and processed in a future month, to fix the purchase price of the Companys anticipated natural gas requirements for certain production facilities, and to fix the sales price of anticipated volumes of ethanol. These designated hedging programs principally relate to the Companys Corn Processing operating segment. The change in the market value of such derivative contracts has historically been, and is expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold and net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. If it is determined that the derivative instruments used are no longer effective at offsetting changes in the price of the hedged item, then the changes in the market value of these exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts would be recorded immediately in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. See Note 4 in Item 8 for additional information. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Investments in Affiliates The Company applies the equity method of accounting for investments over which the Company has the ability to exercise significant influence, including its 16.4% investment in Wilmar. These investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings and are adjusted, where appropriate, for amortizable basis differences between the investment balance and the underlying net assets of the investee. Generally, the minimum ownership threshold for asserting significant influence is 20% ownership of the investee. However, the Company considers all relevant factors in determining its ability to assert significant influence including but not limited to, ownership percentage, board membership, customer and vendor relationships, and other arrangements. If management used a different accounting method for these investments, then the amount of earnings from affiliates the Company recognizes may differ. Income Taxes The Company frequently faces challenges from U.S. and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company records reserves for estimates of potential additional tax owed by the Company. As an example, a subsidiary of the Company received tax assessments in the amount of $570 million consisting of tax, penalty, and interest (adjusted for interest and variation in currency exchange rates) from the Brazilian Federal Revenue Service challenging the deductibility of commodity hedging losses incurred by the Company for tax years 2004, 2006 and 2007. The Company evaluated its tax position regarding these hedging transactions and concluded, based in part upon advice from Brazilian legal counsel, that it was appropriate to recognize the tax benefits of these deductions (see Note 15 in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for additional information). Deferred tax assets represent items to be used as tax deductions or credits in future tax returns, and the related tax benefit has already been recognized in the Companys income statement. The realization of the Companys deferred tax assets is dependent upon future taxable income in specific tax jurisdictions, the timing and amount of which are uncertain. The Company evaluates all available positive and negative evidence including estimated future reversals of existing temporary differences, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies, and recent financial results. Valuation allowances related to these deferred tax assets have been established to the extent the realization of the tax benefit is not likely. To the extent the Company were to favorably resolve matters for which accruals have been established or be required to pay amounts in excess of the aforementioned reserves, the Companys effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be impacted. Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and the Companys share of the undistributed earnings of affiliated corporate joint venture companies accounted for on the equity method amounting to approximately $7.2 billion at June 30, 2012, are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Property, Plant, and Equipment and Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand, changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned factors may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and cash flows of the Companys assets in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its facilities. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment, technology, and companies related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. Assets are written down after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these assets, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. During 2012, 2011, and 2010, impairment charges were $367 million, $2 million, and $9 million, respectively (see Note 19 for additional information on charges taken in 2012). Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets Goodwill and intangible assets deemed to have indefinite lives are not amortized but are subject to annual impairment tests. The Company evaluates goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year or whenever there are indicators that the carrying value of the assets may not be fully recoverable. Definite lived intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives and are reviewed for impairment whenever there are indicators that the carrying value of the assets may not be fully recoverable. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its impairment tests, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Employee Benefit Plans The Company provides substantially all U.S. employees and employees at certain international subsidiaries with pension benefits. Eligible U.S. employees with five or more years of service prior to January 1, 2009 participate in a defined benefit pension plan. Eligible U.S. employees hired on or after January 1, 2009 (and eligible salaried employees with less than five years of service prior to January 1, 2009) participate in a cash balance pension formula. The Company provides eligible U.S. employees who retire under qualifying conditions with access to postretirement health care, at full cost to the retiree (certain employees are grandfathered into subsidized coverage). In order to measure the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans, management makes several estimates and assumptions, including interest rates used to discount certain liabilities, rates of return on assets set aside to fund these plans, rates of compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and anticipated future health care costs. These estimates and assumptions are based on the Companys historical experience combined with managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Management also uses third party actuaries to assist in measuring the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans. If management used different estimates and assumptions regarding these plans, the funded status of the plans could vary significantly, and the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. See Note 17 in Item 8 for additional information. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in: commodity market prices as they relate to the Companys net commodity position, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and prices of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to factors such as changes in weather conditions, crop disease, plantings, government programs and policies, competition, changes in global demand, changes in customer preferences and standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. The Company manages its exposure to adverse price movements of agricultural commodities used for, and produced in, its business operations, by entering into derivative and non derivative contracts which reduce the Companys overall short or long commodity position. Additionally, the Company uses exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the correlation between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contract defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company, from time to time, enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed designated hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold or net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. The Companys commodity position consists of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, related purchase and sales contracts, energy and freight contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts including contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements, net of sales. The fair value of the Companys commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing all of the commodity positions at quoted market prices for the period, where available, or utilizing a close proxy. The Company has established metrics to monitor the amount of market risk exposure, which consist of volumetric limits, and value at risk (VaR) limits. VaR measures the potential loss, at a 95% confidence level, that could be incurred over a one year period. Volumetric limits are monitored daily and VaR calculations and sensitivity analysis are monitored weekly. In addition to measuring the hypothetical loss resulting from an adverse two standard deviation move in market prices (assuming no correlations) over a one year period using VaR, sensitivity analysis is performed measuring the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in market prices. The highest, lowest, and average weekly position for each of the last two years together with the market risk from a hypothetical 10% adverse price change is as follows: 2012 2011 Long/(Short) Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest position $ 1,477 $ 148 $ 2,388 $ 239 Lowest position (383 ) (38 ) 368 37 Average position 546 55 1,644 164 The decline in fair value of the average position for 2012 compared to 2011 was principally the result of the decline in average quantities underlying the weekly commodity position. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) Currencies The Company has consolidated subsidiaries in over 75 countries. For the majority of the Companys subsidiaries located outside the United States, the local currency is the functional currency. To reduce the risks associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, the Company enters into currency exchange contracts to minimize its foreign currency position related to transactions denominated primarily in Euro, British pound, Canadian dollar, and Brazilian real currencies. These currencies represent the major functional or local currencies in which recurring business transactions occur. The Company does not use currency exchange contracts as hedges against amounts permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The currency exchange contracts used are forward contracts, swaps with banks, exchange traded futures contracts, and over the counter options. The changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $7.2 billion at June 30, 2012, and $8.2 billion at June 30, 2011. This decrease is due to the depreciation of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar partially offset by an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The potential loss in fair value, which would principally be recognized in Other Comprehensive Income, resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $722 million and $823 million for 2012 and 2011, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 50 basis points decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2012 2011 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 8,057 $ 9,108 Excess of fair value over carrying value 1,522 842 Market risk 422 333 The decrease in fair value of long term debt in 2012 resulted principally from the reclassification of $1.5 billion in floating rate notes to short term debt partially offset by decreased interest rates. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Operating profit by segment is as follows: 2012 2011 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing and Origination $ 641 $ 925 $ (284 ) Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel, and Other 295 342 (47 ) Cocoa and Other 183 240 (57 ) Asia 183 183 Total Oilseeds Processing 1,302 1,690 (388 ) Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 335 330 5 Bioproducts (74 ) 749 (823 ) Total Corn Processing 261 1,079 (818 ) Agricultural Services Merchandising and Handling 493 807 (314 ) Transportation 125 117 8 Milling and Other 329 399 (70 ) Total Agricultural Services 947 1,323 (376 ) Other Financial 15 39 (24 ) Total Other 15 39 (24 ) Total Segment Operating Profit 2,525 4,131 (1,606 ) Corporate (see below) (760 ) (1,116 ) 356 Earnings Before Income Taxes $ 1,765 $ 3,015 $ (1,250 ) Corporate results are as follows: 2012 2011 Change (In millions) LIFO credit (charge) $ 10 $ (368 ) $ 378 Interest expense net (423 ) (445 ) 22 Unallocated corporate costs (360 ) (326 ) (34 ) Charges on early extinguishment of debt (4 ) (8 ) 4 Gains (losses) on interest rate swaps 30 (30 ) Other 17 1 16 Total Corporate $ (760 ) $ (1,116 ) $ 356 Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Oilseeds Processing operating profit decreased $0.4 billion to $1.3 billion. Crushing and Origination operating profit decreased $284 million to $641 million primarily due to weaker results in European softseeds, lower results in North American softseeds, and lower North American positioning results. Partially offsetting these lower results, were higher grain origination results in South America driven by higher volumes and favorable positioning. Poor European softseeds results were driven by a small prior year rapeseed crop, positioning losses, and weaker demand for protein meal and oils. North American softseed results declined primarily as a result of lower margins generated from a tight cottonseed supply. Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel, and Other results declined $47 million to $295 million due primarily to declines in biodiesel margins in South America and Europe and lower margins for specialty fats and oils in Europe. These declines were partially offset by improved North American protein specialties and natural health and nutrition results due to higher margins and volumes. Cocoa and Other results declined $57 million to $183 million. Current year results in Cocoa and Other were reduced by $100 million for net unrealized mark to market losses related to certain forward purchase and sales commitments accounted for as derivatives. Last year included $9 million of net unrealized mark to market losses. Excluding these timing effects, cocoa results improved in the current year driven by improved press margins caused by strong cocoa powder demand. The prior year included the $71 million Golden Peanut Gain which was partially offset this year by higher earnings in the Companys peanut business in part due to the first full year of consolidated results for Golden Peanut being reported by the Company in fiscal 2012. Asia results remained steady at $183 million, principally reflecting the Companys share of its results from equity investee, Wilmar. Corn Processing operating results decreased $818 million to $261 million due principally to poor ethanol margins and $349 million in asset impairment charges and exit costs. Excluding the asset impairment and exit costs related to the Companys bioplastics business and Walhalla, ND, ethanol dry grind facility, Corn Processing operating profit of $610 million in the current year represents a decline of $469 million compared to the prior year. Processed volumes were up 5 percent while net corn costs increased compared to last year. Sweeteners and Starches operating profit increased $5 million to $335 million, as higher average selling prices more than offset higher net corn costs. Bioproducts profit decreased $823 million to a loss of $74 million, including the $349 million asset impairment and exit charges. Lower ethanol margins were caused by excess supply as previously offline production restarted while industry demand declined, in part due to slowing export demand. Prior year bioproducts results were enhanced by favorable corn ownership positions, which lowered net corn costs in that period. Bioproducts results in the prior year were negatively impacted by startup costs of $94 million related to the Companys new dry grind ethanol, bioplastic, and glycol plants. Agricultural Services operating profits decreased $376 million to $947 million. Merchandising and Handling earnings decreased primarily due to lower results from U.S. operations. Lower sales volumes were principally the result of the relatively higher cost of U.S. grains and oilseeds in the global market due to lower stocks caused by a smaller U.S. harvest in 2011. This relatively weaker position led to reduced U.S. grain exports. In the prior year, Merchandising and Handling results were positively impacted by higher quantities of U.S. grain exports by the Company. In addition, fiscal 2012 included $40 million of increased loss provisions mainly due to an unfavorable arbitration award. Earnings from Transportation were steady. Last years operating results in Milling and Other operations included a $78 million gain related to Grumas disposal of certain assets. Other financial operating profit decreased $24 million to $15 million mainly due to higher loss provisions at the Companys captive insurance subsidiary related to property and crop risk reserves. Corporate expenses declined $356 million to $760 million this year. The effects of a liquidation of LIFO inventory layers partially offset by increasing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations resulted in a credit of $10 million in the current year compared to a charge of $368 million in the prior year primarily due to higher prices. Corporate interest expense decreased $22 million primarily due to lower interest expense on lower long term debt balances. Unallocated corporate costs include $71 million of costs related to the global workforce reduction program. Excluding these costs, unallocated corporate costs declined $37 million due primarily to lower administrative costs. Corporate other income increased due to higher investment income partially offset by $17 million for investment writedown and facility exit related costs. Also, in the prior year the Company recognized $30 million of gains on interest rate swaps. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) 2011 Compared to 2010 As an agricultural commodity based business, the Company is subject to a variety of market factors which affect the Companys operating results. In 2011, prices for certain agricultural commodities were higher in response to growing global demand and tighter crop supplies. The projections of lower 2011 carryover stocks for certain key commodities, coupled with regional crop supply dislocations for certain commodities, also led to high commodity price volatility. Global demand for agricultural commodities grew in 2011, resulting in increased sales volumes for most of the Companys products. The large 2010 North American harvest resulted in global merchandising, handling, and processing opportunities. Protein meal markets for commercial livestock producers in the U.S., particularly poultry producers, faced challenging conditions. Biodiesel markets in Europe and South America, together with the 2011 extension of the U.S. biodiesel blenders credit, helped support global demand for refined and crude vegetable oils. Sweeteners and starches demand remained strong in 2011 due primarily to U.S. exports of sweeteners and improved demand for industrial starches. Ethanol sales volumes, including increased volumes as the Companys new dry mills ramped up, were supported by favorable gasoline blending economics in the U.S. and good export demand. Net earnings increased $106 million to $2.0 billion due principally to a $794 million increase in segment operating profit partially offset by a negative impact from changing LIFO inventory valuations and higher income taxes. In 2011, the Company successfully managed through significant increases in market prices for most of its agricultural commodity raw materials, resulting in increased segment operating profit. Earnings before income taxes includes charges of $368 million from the effect of increasing agricultural commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuation reserves, compared to credits of $42 million in the prior year caused by decreasing agricultural commodity prices. Income taxes increased $331 million due to a higher effective income tax rate and higher earnings before income taxes. The effective income tax rate of 33.1% for 2011 was the result of changes in the geographic mix of earnings and unfavorable specific tax items. The fully diluted earnings per share calculation for 2011 was impacted by the completion of the Companys debt remarketing related to the $1.75 billion Equity Units. While the approximately 44 million new common shares related to the $1.75 billion Equity Units were not issued until June 1, 2011, the if converted method of accounting for diluted earnings per share required diluted EPS to be calculated as if the Company issued the shares on January 1, 2011, and this assumption resulted in a dilutive impact of $0.04 on earnings per share (See Note 11 in the accompanying consolidated financial statements). Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Analysis of Statements of Earnings Net sales and other operating income by segment are as follows: 2011 2010 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing and Origination $ 16,518 $ 14,411 $ 2,107 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel, and Other 9,476 7,133 2,343 Cocoa and Other 3,652 2,678 974 Asia 262 190 72 Total Oilseeds Processing 29,908 24,412 5,496 Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 3,766 3,264 502 Bioproducts 6,142 4,610 1,532 Total Corn Processing 9,908 7,874 2,034 Agricultural Services Merchandising and Handling 36,852 25,751 11,101 Transportation 222 167 55 Milling and Other 3,676 3,383 293 Total Agricultural Services 40,750 29,301 11,449 Other Financial 110 95 15 Total Other 110 95 15 Total $ 80,676 $ 61,682 $ 18,994 Net sales and other operating income increased $19.0 billion, or 31%, to $80.7 billion. Net sales and other operating income increased $14.2 billion due to higher average selling prices, primarily related to higher underlying commodity costs, and increased $4.8 billion due to increased sales volumes, including sales volumes from acquisitions. Agricultural Services sales increased 39% to $40.8 billion due to higher average selling prices of agricultural commodities and higher global sales volumes. Oilseeds Processing sales increased 23% to $29.9 billion primarily due to higher average selling prices for vegetable oils, soybeans, biodiesel, and protein meal. Corn Processing sales increased 26% to $9.9 billion due to higher average selling prices and increased sales volumes of ethanol and other corn products, in part due to the Companys two new ethanol dry mills coming on line. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Cost of products sold increased 32% to $76.4 billion due to higher costs of agricultural commodities, negative impacts resulting from changes in LIFO inventory valuations, and higher manufacturing costs. Cost of products sold includes charges of $368 million from the effect of increasing agricultural commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuation reserves, compared to credits of $42 million in the prior year caused by decreasing agricultural commodity prices. Manufacturing expenses increased $410 million due primarily to higher processed volumes, including the volumes of the Companys new greenfield operations coming on line, and higher average unit costs for certain chemicals and fuels used in the Companys processing and transportation operations. During the second quarter of fiscal 2011, the Company updated its estimates for service lives of certain of its machinery and equipment assets. This change in estimate resulted in a $133 million decrease in depreciation expense compared to the amount of depreciation expense the Company would have recorded using the previously estimated service lives. Manufacturing expenses included $94 million in fiscal 2011 related to the start up of new plants compared to $110 million in the prior year. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased 15% to $1.6 billion. This increase was due to higher employee related costs and higher administrative expenses. Higher employee related costs principally reflect the increase in number of employees during the year and included higher salaries and wages, higher accruals for performance based compensation and higher benefit expenses. Equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates declined 3% to $542 million. The decline in earnings from the Companys equity investee, Wilmar, was partially offset by higher earnings of the Companys equity investee, Gruma, in part due to a gain on Grumas disposition of certain assets. Interest income increased 8% to $136 million principally resulting from higher interest earned on advances to affiliates. Interest expense increased 14% to $482 million. Interest costs capitalized as a component of major construction projects in progress was $7 million compared to $75 million in the prior year. Interest incurred on long term debt declined $24 million as a result of debt retirements while interest incurred on short term debt increased $15 million due to higher average borrowings driven by higher working capital requirements. Other (income) expense net increased $255 million primarily due to the $71 million gain resulting from the revaluation of the Companys previously held equity interest in Golden Peanut upon acquisition of the remaining 50% interest, gains on interest rate swaps of $30 million compared to a loss of $59 million in the prior year, and a decrease in charges related to early extinguishment of debt from $75 million in the prior year to $15 million in the current year. Income taxes increased $331 million to $997 million due to a higher effective income tax rate and higher pretax earnings. The Companys effective income tax rate increased to 33.1% during 2011 compared to 25.8% in fiscal 2010. The increase in the 2011 rate was primarily due to a geographic mix of earnings that shifted more to the U.S., a higher U.S. effective income tax rate, income tax expense associated with foreign currency re measurement of non monetary assets in Brazil, and adjustments to deferred income tax balances. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Operating profit by segment is as follows: 2011 2010 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing and Origination $ 925 $ 834 $ 91 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel, and Other 342 300 42 Cocoa and Other 240 126 114 Asia 183 291 (108 ) Total Oilseeds Processing 1,690 1,551 139 Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 330 538 (208 ) Bioproducts 749 200 549 Total Corn Processing 1,079 738 341 Agricultural Services Merchandising and Handling 807 562 245 Transportation 117 96 21 Milling and Other 399 344 55 Total Agricultural Services 1,323 1,002 321 Other Financial 39 46 (7 ) Total Other 39 46 (7 ) Total Segment Operating Profit 4,131 3,337 794 Corporate (see below) (1,116 ) (752 ) (364 ) Earnings Before Income Taxes $ 3,015 $ 2,585 $ 430 Corporate results are as follows: 2011 2010 Change (In millions) LIFO credit $ (368 ) $ 42 $ (410 ) Interest expense net (445 ) (381 ) (64 ) Unallocated corporate costs (326 ) (266 ) (60 ) Charges on early extinguishment of debt (8 ) (75 ) 67 Gains (losses) on interest rate swaps 30 (59 ) 89 Other 1 (13 ) 14 Total Corporate $ (1,116 ) $ (752 ) $ (364 ) Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Oilseeds Processing operating profit increased 9% to $1.7 billion. Crushing and Origination results increased $91 million to $925 million. Improved North American crushing results, particularly for cotton seed and canola, were partially offset by lower crushing margins in South America and Europe. Margins globally were enhanced by good positioning and by improved origination results. In South America, fertilizer results improved due to higher margins and volumes. Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel and Other results increased $42 million to $342 million due principally to higher packaged oils margins and improved North American and European biodiesel results. Cocoa and Other results increased $114 million to $240 million primarily due to the $71 million gain on the revaluation of the Companys equity interest in Golden Peanut and higher peanut profits as a result of the December 31, 2010 acquisition of the remaining 50% interest of Golden Peanut. Asia results decreased $108 million due principally to decreased earnings from the Companys equity investee, Wilmar. Corn Processing operating profit increased 46% to $1.1 billion, which includes favorable impacts from ownership positions, which were allocated to sweeteners and starches and bioproducts based on total grind. Sweeteners and Starches operating profit decreased $208 million to $330 million due to higher net corn costs partially offset by higher sales volumes. Sales volumes increased due to U.S. export shipments of sweeteners and improved U.S. demand for industrial starches. Bioproducts operating profit improved $549 million primarily due to higher ethanol sales volumes and higher average selling prices leading to increased ethanol and lysine margins. Bioproducts margins were also enhanced by favorable corn ownership positions. Bioproducts results included startup costs related to the Companys new plants of $94 million in 2011 compared to $107 million in the prior year. Agricultural Services operating profit increased 32% to $1.3 billion. Merchandising and Handling results increased due to higher corn and wheat sales volumes and higher margins. A large 2010 U.S. harvest combined with strong international demand resulted in higher U.S. export shipments. Merchandising and Handling results in 2011 included an insurance recovery of $67 million related to property damage and business interruption resulting from an October 2008 explosion at the Companys Destrehan, LA, export facility. International merchandising results were weaker in part due to positions impacted by unexpected shifts in crop supply caused by weather conditions and government actions in the Black Sea region. Transportation results increased $21 million to $117 million primarily due to higher barge freight rates and higher barge utilization levels, in part due to higher U.S. export volumes. Milling and Other results improved due principally to increased equity earnings from the Companys equity investee, Gruma which include a $78 million gain related to Grumas disposal of certain assets. Other financial operating profit decreased 15% to $39 million primarily due to higher captive insurance loss provisions principally related to a $67 million loss related to the Companys Destrehan, LA, export facility insurance claim. Corporate results decreased $364 million primarily due to the negative impact from changing LIFO inventory valuations and higher interest expense net. The effects of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory reserves resulted in charges of $368 million compared to credits of $42 million for the prior year. Corporate interest expense increased $64 million mostly due to lower capitalization of interest costs for construction projects in progress. Partially offsetting the higher LIFO and interest costs were $30 million of gains on interest rate swaps compared to prior year losses on interest rate swaps of $59 million. In addition, 2010 included charges of $75 million on early debt extinguishment compared to $8 million of similar charges in 2011. Liquidity and Capital Resources A Company objective is to have sufficient liquidity, balance sheet strength, and financial flexibility to fund the operating and capital requirements of a capital intensive agricultural commodity based business. The primary source of funds to finance the Companys operations and capital expenditures is cash generated by operations and lines of credit, including a commercial paper borrowing facility. In addition, the Company believes it has access to funds from public and private equity and debt capital markets in both U.S. and international markets. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Cash provided by operating activities was $2.9 billion for the year compared to cash used in operating activities of $2.3 billion last year. Working capital decreased $0.3 billion since the beginning of fiscal 2012 due principally to the $1.0 billion account receivable securitization program discussed below. In fiscal 2011 working capital increased $5.2 billion due principally to higher agricultural commodity prices. Cash used in investing activities was $1.1 billion for the year compared to a $1.7 billion use last year. Capital expenditures were $1.5 billion for the year compared to $1.2 billion last year. The Company spent approximately $0.2 billion on acquisitions in fiscal 2012 and 2011. Related to the sale of the majority interest in Hickory Point Bank, the Company reduced its holdings of marketable securities generating cash of $0.3 billion and divested cash of $0.1 billion as a result of the deconsolidation. In fiscal 2011, net purchases of marketable securities used $0.3 billion of cash. Cash used in financing activities was $1.1 billion for the year compared to cash provided by financing activities of $3.6 billion last year. In fiscal 2012, the Company returned nearly $1.0 billion to shareholders in the form of dividends and share repurchases, including the acquisition of 18.4 million of its common shares for $0.5 billion. In fiscal 2011 net borrowings increased primarily to fund higher working capital. Short term borrowings increased due principally to higher commercial paper borrowings, and long term borrowings increased primarily as a result of the issuance of $1.5 billion of 18 month floating rate notes in February 2011. In addition the Company issued 44 million shares of common stock and received $1.75 billion in fiscal 2011 under the forward stock purchase component of the Companys Equity Units (see Note 10 in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data). At June 30, 2012, the Company had $1.5 billion of cash, cash equivalents, and short term marketable securities and a current ratio, defined as current assets divided by current liabilities, of 1.8 to 1. Included in working capital is $7.8 billion of readily marketable commodity inventories. At June 30, 2012, the Companys capital resources included net worth of $18.2 billion and lines of credit totaling $6.5 billion, of which $4.4 billion was unused. The Companys ratio of long term debt to total capital (the sum of the Companys long term debt and shareholders equity) was 26% at June 30, 2012 and 30% at June 30, 2011. This ratio is a measure of the Companys long term indebtedness and is an indicator of financial flexibility. Of the Companys total lines of credit, $4.3 billion support a commercial paper borrowing facility, against which there were $1.3 billion of commercial paper outstanding at June 30, 2012. In August 2012, the Company added a $2.0 billion credit facility which will support commercial paper borrowings. On March 27, 2012, the Company entered into an amendment of its accounts receivable securitization program (as amended, the Program) with certain commercial paper conduit purchasers and committed purchasers (collectively, the Purchasers). The Program provides the Company with up to $1.0 billion in funding against accounts receivable transferred into the Program and expands the Companys access to liquidity through efficient use of its balance sheet assets. Under the Program, certain U.S. originated trade accounts receivable are sold to a wholly owned bankruptcy remote entity, ADM Receivables, LLC (ADM Receivables). ADM Receivables in turn transfers such purchased accounts receivable in their entirety to the Purchasers pursuant to a receivables purchase agreement. In exchange for the transfer of the accounts receivable, ADM Receivables receives a cash payment of up to $1.0 billion and an additional amount upon the collection of the accounts receivable (deferred consideration). ADM Receivables uses the cash proceeds from the transfer of receivables to the Purchasers and other consideration to finance the purchase of receivables from the Company and the ADM subsidiaries originating the receivables. The Company acts as master servicer, responsible for servicing and collecting the accounts receivable under the Program. The Program terminates on June 28, 2013 (see Note 20 for more information and disclosures on the Program). As of June 30, 2012, the fair value of trade receivables transferred to the Purchasers under the Program and derecognized from the Companys consolidated balance sheet was $1.6 billion. In exchange for the transfer, the Company received cash of $1.0 billion and recorded a receivable for deferred consideration included in other current assets. The Company has outstanding $1.4 billion principal amount of floating rate notes due on August 13, 2012. Interest on the notes accrues at a floating rate three month LIBOR reset quarterly plus 0.16% and is paid quarterly. As of June 30, 2012, the interest rate on the notes was 0.63%. In August 2012, the Company paid these notes with funds available from short term borrowings. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) The Company has outstanding $1.15 billion principal amount of convertible senior notes. As of June 30, 2012, none of the conditions permitting conversion of these notes had been satisfied. The Company has purchased call options and warrants intended to reduce the potential shareholder dilution upon future conversion of the notes. As of June 30, 2012, the market price of the Companys common stock was not greater than the exercise price of the purchased call options or warrants related to the convertible senior notes. The Company is currently experiencing generally higher prices for agricultural commodities as a result of tightening crop supplies, mostly due to weather impacts on current year U.S. corn and soybean crop production. Higher prices of commodities have historically correlated with increases in the Companys working capital requirements. The Company depends on access to credit markets, which can be impacted by its credit rating and factors outside of the Companys control, such as the European debt situation, to fund its working capital needs and capital expenditures. The Company expects capital expenditures to range from $0.5 billion to $0.6 billion for the upcoming 6 month period ending December 31, 2012. On November 5, 2009, the Companys Board of Directors approved a stock repurchase program authorizing the Company to repurchase up to 100,000,000 shares of the Companys common stock during the period commencing January 1, 2010 and ending December 31, 2014. The Company has acquired approximately 31.6 million shares under this program, resulting in remaining approval to acquire 68.4 million shares. The Companys credit facilities and certain debentures require the Company to comply with specified financial and non financial covenants including maintenance of minimum tangible net worth as well as limitations related to incurring liens, secured debt, and certain other financing arrangements. The Company is in compliance with these covenants as of June 30, 2012. Contractual Obligations In the normal course of business, the Company enters into contracts and commitments which obligate the Company to make payments in the future. The following table sets forth the Companys significant future obligations by time period. Purchases include commodity based contracts entered into in the normal course of business, which are further described in Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, energy related purchase contracts entered into in the normal course of business, and other purchase obligations related to the Companys normal business activities. The following table does not include unrecognized income tax benefits of $80 million as of June 30, 2012 as the Company is unable to reasonably estimate the timing of settlement. Where applicable, information included in the Companys consolidated financial statements and notes is cross referenced in this table. Payments Due by Period Contractual Item 8 Note Less than 1 3 3 5 More than Obligations Reference Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years (In millions) Purchases Inventories $ 17,724 $ 17,307 $ 211 $ 130 $ 76 Energy 866 390 233 87 156 Other 242 145 86 10 1 Total purchases 18,832 17,842 530 227 233 Short term debt 2,108 2,108 Long term debt Note 10 8,212 1,677 1,114 320 5,101 Estimated interest payments 6,688 374 650 636 5,028 Operating leases Note 16 1,135 244 365 263 263 Estimated pension and other postretirement plan contributions (1) Note 17 188 64 23 25 76 Total $ 37,163 $ 22,309 $ 2,682 $ 1,471 $ 10,701 (1) Includes pension contributions of $53 million for fiscal 2013. The Company is unable to estimate the amount of pension contributions beyond fiscal year 2013. For more information concerning the Companys pension and other postretirement plans, see Note 17 in Item 8. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) At June 30, 2012, the Company estimates it will spend approximately $2.1 billion through calendar year 2015 to complete currently approved capital projects which are not included in the table above. The Company also has outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds of $644 million at June 30, 2012. In addition, the Company has entered into agreements, primarily debt guarantee agreements related to equity method investees, which could obligate the Company to make future payments. The Companys liability under these agreements arises only if the primary entity fails to perform its contractual obligation. The Company has collateral for a portion of these contingent obligations. At June 30, 2012, these contingent obligations totaled approximately $30 million. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements On March 27, 2012, the Company entered into an amendment of its accounts receivable securitization program (as amended, the Program) with certain commercial paper conduit purchasers and committed purchasers (collectively, the Purchasers). Under the Program, certain U.S. originated trade accounts receivable are sold to a wholly owned bankruptcy remote entity, ADM Receivables, LLC (ADM Receivables). ADM Receivables in turn transfers such purchased accounts receivable in their entirety to the Purchasers pursuant to a receivables purchase agreement. In exchange for the transfer of the accounts receivable, ADM Receivables receives a cash payment of up to $1.0 billion and an additional amount upon the collection of the accounts receivable (deferred consideration). ADM Receivables uses the cash proceeds from the transfer of receivables to the Purchasers and other consideration to finance the purchase of receivables from the Company and the ADM subsidiaries originating the receivables. The Company accounts for these transfers as sales. The Company has no retained interests in the transferred receivables, other than collection and administrative responsibilities and its right to the deferred consideration. At June 30, 2012, the Company did not record a servicing asset or liability related to its retained responsibility, based on its assessment of the servicing fee, market values for similar transactions and its cost of servicing the receivables sold. The Program terminates on June 28, 2013. As of June 30, 2012, the fair value of trade receivables transferred to the Purchasers under the Program and derecognized from the Companys consolidated balance sheet was $1.6 billion. In exchange for the transfer, the Company received cash of $1.0 billion and recorded a receivable for deferred consideration included in other current assets. Cash collections from customers on receivables sold were $8.9 billion for the four months ended June 30, 2012. Of this amount, $8.9 billion pertains to cash collections on the deferred consideration. Deferred consideration is paid to the Company in cash on behalf of the Purchasers as receivables are collected; however, as this is a revolving facility, cash collected from the Companys customers is reinvested by the Purchasers daily in new receivable purchases under the Program. The Companys risk of loss following the transfer of accounts receivable under the Program is limited to the deferred consideration outstanding, which is classified as other current assets and was $0.6 billion at June 30, 2012. The Company carries the deferred consideration at fair value determined by calculating the expected amount of cash to be received and is principally based on observable inputs (a Level 2 measurement under ASC 820) consisting mainly of the face amount of the receivables adjusted for anticipated credit losses and discounted at the appropriate market rate. Payment of deferred consideration is not subject to significant risks other than delinquencies and credit losses on accounts receivable transferred under the program which have historically been insignificant. Transfers of receivables under the Program during the year ended June 30, 2012 resulted in an expense for the loss on sale of $4 million which is classified as selling, general, and administrative expenses in the consolidated statements of earnings. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Critical Accounting Policies The process of preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the carrying values of the Companys assets and liabilities as well as the recognition of revenues and expenses. These estimates and judgments are based on the Companys historical experience and managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Certain of the Companys accounting policies are considered critical, as these policies are important to the depiction of the Companys financial statements and require significant or complex judgment by management. Management has discussed with the Companys Audit Committee the development, selection, disclosure, and application of these critical accounting policies. Following are the accounting policies management considers critical to the Companys financial statements. Fair Value Measurements Inventories and Derivatives Certain of the Companys assets and liabilities as of June 30, 2012 are valued at estimated fair values, including $6.8 billion of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, $3.1 billion of derivative assets, $3.0 billion of derivative liabilities, and $0.3 billion of inventory related payables. Derivative assets and liabilities include forward fixed price purchase and sale contracts for agricultural commodities, forward foreign exchange contracts, and over the counter instruments such as options contracts. The merchandisable agricultural commodities are freely traded, have quoted market prices, and may be sold without significant additional processing. Management estimates fair value for its commodity related assets and liabilities based on exchange quoted prices, adjusted for differences in local markets. The Companys fair value measurements are mainly based on observable market quotations without significant adjustments and are therefore reported as Level 1 or Level 2 within the fair value hierarchy. Level 3 fair value measurements represent fair value estimates where unobservable price components represent 10% or more of the total fair value price. For more information concerning amounts reported as Level 3, see Note 3 in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Changes in the market values of these inventories and contracts are recognized in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. If management used different methods or factors to estimate market value, amounts reported as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. Additionally, if market conditions change subsequent to year end, amounts reported in future periods as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. Derivatives Designated Hedging Activities The Company, from time to time, uses derivative contracts designated as cash flow hedges to fix the purchase price of anticipated volumes of commodities to be purchased and processed in a future month, to fix the purchase price of the Companys anticipated natural gas requirements for certain production facilities, and to fix the sales price of anticipated volumes of ethanol. These designated hedging programs principally relate to the Companys Corn Processing operating segment. The change in the market value of such derivative contracts has historically been, and is expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold and net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. If it is determined that the derivative instruments used are no longer effective at offsetting changes in the price of the hedged item, then the changes in the market value of these exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts would be recorded immediately in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. See Note 4 in Item 8 for additional information. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Investments in Affiliates The Company applies the equity method of accounting for investments over which the Company has the ability to exercise significant influence, including its 16.4% investment in Wilmar. These investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings and are adjusted, where appropriate, for amortizable basis differences between the investment balance and the underlying net assets of the investee. Generally, the minimum ownership threshold for asserting significant influence is 20% ownership of the investee. However, the Company considers all relevant factors in determining its ability to assert significant influence including but not limited to, ownership percentage, board membership, customer and vendor relationships, and other arrangements. If management used a different accounting method for these investments, then the amount of earnings from affiliates the Company recognizes may differ. Income Taxes The Company frequently faces challenges from U.S. and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company records reserves for estimates of potential additional tax owed by the Company. As an example, a subsidiary of the Company received tax assessments in the amount of $570 million consisting of tax, penalty, and interest (adjusted for interest and variation in currency exchange rates) from the Brazilian Federal Revenue Service challenging the deductibility of commodity hedging losses incurred by the Company for tax years 2004, 2006 and 2007. The Company evaluated its tax position regarding these hedging transactions and concluded, based in part upon advice from Brazilian legal counsel, that it was appropriate to recognize the tax benefits of these deductions (see Note 15 in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for additional information). Deferred tax assets represent items to be used as tax deductions or credits in future tax returns, and the related tax benefit has already been recognized in the Companys income statement. The realization of the Companys deferred tax assets is dependent upon future taxable income in specific tax jurisdictions, the timing and amount of which are uncertain. The Company evaluates all available positive and negative evidence including estimated future reversals of existing temporary differences, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies, and recent financial results. Valuation allowances related to these deferred tax assets have been established to the extent the realization of the tax benefit is not likely. To the extent the Company were to favorably resolve matters for which accruals have been established or be required to pay amounts in excess of the aforementioned reserves, the Companys effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be impacted. Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and the Companys share of the undistributed earnings of affiliated corporate joint venture companies accounted for on the equity method amounting to approximately $7.2 billion at June 30, 2012, are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Property, Plant, and Equipment and Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand, changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned factors may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and cash flows of the Companys assets in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its facilities. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment, technology, and companies related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. Assets are written down after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these assets, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. During 2012, 2011, and 2010, impairment charges were $367 million, $2 million, and $9 million, respectively (see Note 19 for additional information on charges taken in 2012). Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets Goodwill and intangible assets deemed to have indefinite lives are not amortized but are subject to annual impairment tests. The Company evaluates goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year or whenever there are indicators that the carrying value of the assets may not be fully recoverable. Definite lived intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives and are reviewed for impairment whenever there are indicators that the carrying value of the assets may not be fully recoverable. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its impairment tests, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Employee Benefit Plans The Company provides substantially all U.S. employees and employees at certain international subsidiaries with pension benefits. Eligible U.S. employees with five or more years of service prior to January 1, 2009 participate in a defined benefit pension plan. Eligible U.S. employees hired on or after January 1, 2009 (and eligible salaried employees with less than five years of service prior to January 1, 2009) participate in a cash balance pension formula. The Company provides eligible U.S. employees who retire under qualifying conditions with access to postretirement health care, at full cost to the retiree (certain employees are grandfathered into subsidized coverage). In order to measure the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans, management makes several estimates and assumptions, including interest rates used to discount certain liabilities, rates of return on assets set aside to fund these plans, rates of compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and anticipated future health care costs. These estimates and assumptions are based on the Companys historical experience combined with managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Management also uses third party actuaries to assist in measuring the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans. If management used different estimates and assumptions regarding these plans, the funded status of the plans could vary significantly, and the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. See Note 17 in Item 8 for additional information. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in: commodity market prices as they relate to the Companys net commodity position, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and prices of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to factors such as changes in weather conditions, crop disease, plantings, government programs and policies, competition, changes in global demand, changes in customer preferences and standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. The Company manages its exposure to adverse price movements of agricultural commodities used for, and produced in, its business operations, by entering into derivative and non derivative contracts which reduce the Companys overall short or long commodity position. Additionally, the Company uses exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the correlation between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contract defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company, from time to time, enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed designated hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold or net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. The Companys commodity position consists of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, related purchase and sales contracts, energy and freight contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts including contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements, net of sales. The fair value of the Companys commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing all of the commodity positions at quoted market prices for the period, where available, or utilizing a close proxy. The Company has established metrics to monitor the amount of market risk exposure, which consist of volumetric limits, and value at risk (VaR) limits. VaR measures the potential loss, at a 95% confidence level, that could be incurred over a one year period. Volumetric limits are monitored daily and VaR calculations and sensitivity analysis are monitored weekly. In addition to measuring the hypothetical loss resulting from an adverse two standard deviation move in market prices (assuming no correlations) over a one year period using VaR, sensitivity analysis is performed measuring the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in market prices. The highest, lowest, and average weekly position for each of the last two years together with the market risk from a hypothetical 10% adverse price change is as follows: 2012 2011 Long/(Short) Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest position $ 1,477 $ 148 $ 2,388 $ 239 Lowest position (383 ) (38 ) 368 37 Average position 546 55 1,644 164 The decline in fair value of the average position for 2012 compared to 2011 was principally the result of the decline in average quantities underlying the weekly commodity position. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) Currencies The Company has consolidated subsidiaries in over 75 countries. For the majority of the Companys subsidiaries located outside the United States, the local currency is the functional currency. To reduce the risks associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, the Company enters into currency exchange contracts to minimize its foreign currency position related to transactions denominated primarily in Euro, British pound, Canadian dollar, and Brazilian real currencies. These currencies represent the major functional or local currencies in which recurring business transactions occur. The Company does not use currency exchange contracts as hedges against amounts permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The currency exchange contracts used are forward contracts, swaps with banks, exchange traded futures contracts, and over the counter options. The changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $7.2 billion at June 30, 2012, and $8.2 billion at June 30, 2011. This decrease is due to the depreciation of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar partially offset by an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The potential loss in fair value, which would principally be recognized in Other Comprehensive Income, resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $722 million and $823 million for 2012 and 2011, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 50 basis points decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2012 2011 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 8,057 $ 9,108 Excess of fair value over carrying value 1,522 842 Market risk 422 333 The decrease in fair value of long term debt in 2012 resulted principally from the reclassification of $1.5 billion in floating rate notes to short term debt partially offset by decreased interest rates. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Oilseeds Processing operating profit decreased $0.4 billion to $1.3 billion. Crushing and Origination operating profit decreased $284 million to $641 million primarily due to weaker results in European softseeds, lower results in North American softseeds, and lower North American positioning results. Partially offsetting these lower results, were higher grain origination results in South America driven by higher volumes and favorable positioning. Poor European softseeds results were driven by a small prior year rapeseed crop, positioning losses, and weaker demand for protein meal and oils. North American softseed results declined primarily as a result of lower margins generated from a tight cottonseed supply. Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel, and Other results declined $47 million to $295 million due primarily to declines in biodiesel margins in South America and Europe and lower margins for specialty fats and oils in Europe. These declines were partially offset by improved North American protein specialties and natural health and nutrition results due to higher margins and volumes. Cocoa and Other results declined $57 million to $183 million. Current year results in Cocoa and Other were reduced by $100 million for net unrealized mark to market losses related to certain forward purchase and sales commitments accounted for as derivatives. Last year included $9 million of net unrealized mark to market losses. Excluding these timing effects, cocoa results improved in the current year driven by improved press margins caused by strong cocoa powder demand. The prior year included the $71 million Golden Peanut Gain which was partially offset this year by higher earnings in the Companys peanut business in part due to the first full year of consolidated results for Golden Peanut being reported by the Company in fiscal 2012. Asia results remained steady at $183 million, principally reflecting the Companys share of its results from equity investee, Wilmar. Corn Processing operating results decreased $818 million to $261 million due principally to poor ethanol margins and $349 million in asset impairment charges and exit costs. Excluding the asset impairment and exit costs related to the Companys bioplastics business and Walhalla, ND, ethanol dry grind facility, Corn Processing operating profit of $610 million in the current year represents a decline of $469 million compared to the prior year. Processed volumes were up 5 percent while net corn costs increased compared to last year. Sweeteners and Starches operating profit increased $5 million to $335 million, as higher average selling prices more than offset higher net corn costs. Bioproducts profit decreased $823 million to a loss of $74 million, including the $349 million asset impairment and exit charges. Lower ethanol margins were caused by excess supply as previously offline production restarted while industry demand declined, in part due to slowing export demand. Prior year bioproducts results were enhanced by favorable corn ownership positions, which lowered net corn costs in that period. Bioproducts results in the prior year were negatively impacted by startup costs of $94 million related to the Companys new dry grind ethanol, bioplastic, and glycol plants. Agricultural Services operating profits decreased $376 million to $947 million. Merchandising and Handling earnings decreased primarily due to lower results from U.S. operations. Lower sales volumes were principally the result of the relatively higher cost of U.S. grains and oilseeds in the global market due to lower stocks caused by a smaller U.S. harvest in 2011. This relatively weaker position led to reduced U.S. grain exports. In the prior year, Merchandising and Handling results were positively impacted by higher quantities of U.S. grain exports by the Company. In addition, fiscal 2012 included $40 million of increased loss provisions mainly due to an unfavorable arbitration award. Earnings from Transportation were steady. Last years operating results in Milling and Other operations included a $78 million gain related to Grumas disposal of certain assets. Other financial operating profit decreased $24 million to $15 million mainly due to higher loss provisions at the Companys captive insurance subsidiary related to property and crop risk reserves. Corporate expenses declined $356 million to $760 million this year. The effects of a liquidation of LIFO inventory layers partially offset by increasing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations resulted in a credit of $10 million in the current year compared to a charge of $368 million in the prior year primarily due to higher prices. Corporate interest expense decreased $22 million primarily due to lower interest expense on lower long term debt balances. Unallocated corporate costs include $71 million of costs related to the global workforce reduction program. Excluding these costs, unallocated corporate costs declined $37 million due primarily to lower administrative costs. Corporate other income increased due to higher investment income partially offset by $17 million for investment writedown and facility exit related costs. Also, in the prior year the Company recognized $30 million of gains on interest rate swaps. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) 2011 Compared to 2010 As an agricultural commodity based business, the Company is subject to a variety of market factors which affect the Companys operating results. In 2011, prices for certain agricultural commodities were higher in response to growing global demand and tighter crop supplies. The projections of lower 2011 carryover stocks for certain key commodities, coupled with regional crop supply dislocations for certain commodities, also led to high commodity price volatility. Global demand for agricultural commodities grew in 2011, resulting in increased sales volumes for most of the Companys products. The large 2010 North American harvest resulted in global merchandising, handling, and processing opportunities. Protein meal markets for commercial livestock producers in the U.S., particularly poultry producers, faced challenging conditions. Biodiesel markets in Europe and South America, together with the 2011 extension of the U.S. biodiesel blenders credit, helped support global demand for refined and crude vegetable oils. Sweeteners and starches demand remained strong in 2011 due primarily to U.S. exports of sweeteners and improved demand for industrial starches. Ethanol sales volumes, including increased volumes as the Companys new dry mills ramped up, were supported by favorable gasoline blending economics in the U.S. and good export demand. Net earnings increased $106 million to $2.0 billion due principally to a $794 million increase in segment operating profit partially offset by a negative impact from changing LIFO inventory valuations and higher income taxes. In 2011, the Company successfully managed through significant increases in market prices for most of its agricultural commodity raw materials, resulting in increased segment operating profit. Earnings before income taxes includes charges of $368 million from the effect of increasing agricultural commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuation reserves, compared to credits of $42 million in the prior year caused by decreasing agricultural commodity prices. Income taxes increased $331 million due to a higher effective income tax rate and higher earnings before income taxes. The effective income tax rate of 33.1% for 2011 was the result of changes in the geographic mix of earnings and unfavorable specific tax items. The fully diluted earnings per share calculation for 2011 was impacted by the completion of the Companys debt remarketing related to the $1.75 billion Equity Units. While the approximately 44 million new common shares related to the $1.75 billion Equity Units were not issued until June 1, 2011, the if converted method of accounting for diluted earnings per share required diluted EPS to be calculated as if the Company issued the shares on January 1, 2011, and this assumption resulted in a dilutive impact of $0.04 on earnings per share (See Note 11 in the accompanying consolidated financial statements). Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Analysis of Statements of Earnings Net sales and other operating income by segment are as follows: 2011 2010 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing and Origination $ 16,518 $ 14,411 $ 2,107 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel, and Other 9,476 7,133 2,343 Cocoa and Other 3,652 2,678 974 Asia 262 190 72 Total Oilseeds Processing 29,908 24,412 5,496 Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 3,766 3,264 502 Bioproducts 6,142 4,610 1,532 Total Corn Processing 9,908 7,874 2,034 Agricultural Services Merchandising and Handling 36,852 25,751 11,101 Transportation 222 167 55 Milling and Other 3,676 3,383 293 Total Agricultural Services 40,750 29,301 11,449 Other Financial 110 95 15 Total Other 110 95 15 Total $ 80,676 $ 61,682 $ 18,994 Net sales and other operating income increased $19.0 billion, or 31%, to $80.7 billion. Net sales and other operating income increased $14.2 billion due to higher average selling prices, primarily related to higher underlying commodity costs, and increased $4.8 billion due to increased sales volumes, including sales volumes from acquisitions. Agricultural Services sales increased 39% to $40.8 billion due to higher average selling prices of agricultural commodities and higher global sales volumes. Oilseeds Processing sales increased 23% to $29.9 billion primarily due to higher average selling prices for vegetable oils, soybeans, biodiesel, and protein meal. Corn Processing sales increased 26% to $9.9 billion due to higher average selling prices and increased sales volumes of ethanol and other corn products, in part due to the Companys two new ethanol dry mills coming on line. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Cost of products sold increased 32% to $76.4 billion due to higher costs of agricultural commodities, negative impacts resulting from changes in LIFO inventory valuations, and higher manufacturing costs. Cost of products sold includes charges of $368 million from the effect of increasing agricultural commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuation reserves, compared to credits of $42 million in the prior year caused by decreasing agricultural commodity prices. Manufacturing expenses increased $410 million due primarily to higher processed volumes, including the volumes of the Companys new greenfield operations coming on line, and higher average unit costs for certain chemicals and fuels used in the Companys processing and transportation operations. During the second quarter of fiscal 2011, the Company updated its estimates for service lives of certain of its machinery and equipment assets. This change in estimate resulted in a $133 million decrease in depreciation expense compared to the amount of depreciation expense the Company would have recorded using the previously estimated service lives. Manufacturing expenses included $94 million in fiscal 2011 related to the start up of new plants compared to $110 million in the prior year. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased 15% to $1.6 billion. This increase was due to higher employee related costs and higher administrative expenses. Higher employee related costs principally reflect the increase in number of employees during the year and included higher salaries and wages, higher accruals for performance based compensation and higher benefit expenses. Equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates declined 3% to $542 million. The decline in earnings from the Companys equity investee, Wilmar, was partially offset by higher earnings of the Companys equity investee, Gruma, in part due to a gain on Grumas disposition of certain assets. Interest income increased 8% to $136 million principally resulting from higher interest earned on advances to affiliates. Interest expense increased 14% to $482 million. Interest costs capitalized as a component of major construction projects in progress was $7 million compared to $75 million in the prior year. Interest incurred on long term debt declined $24 million as a result of debt retirements while interest incurred on short term debt increased $15 million due to higher average borrowings driven by higher working capital requirements. Other (income) expense net increased $255 million primarily due to the $71 million gain resulting from the revaluation of the Companys previously held equity interest in Golden Peanut upon acquisition of the remaining 50% interest, gains on interest rate swaps of $30 million compared to a loss of $59 million in the prior year, and a decrease in charges related to early extinguishment of debt from $75 million in the prior year to $15 million in the current year. Income taxes increased $331 million to $997 million due to a higher effective income tax rate and higher pretax earnings. The Companys effective income tax rate increased to 33.1% during 2011 compared to 25.8% in fiscal 2010. The increase in the 2011 rate was primarily due to a geographic mix of earnings that shifted more to the U.S., a higher U.S. effective income tax rate, income tax expense associated with foreign currency re measurement of non monetary assets in Brazil, and adjustments to deferred income tax balances. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Operating profit by segment is as follows: 2011 2010 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing and Origination $ 925 $ 834 $ 91 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel, and Other 342 300 42 Cocoa and Other 240 126 114 Asia 183 291 (108 ) Total Oilseeds Processing 1,690 1,551 139 Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 330 538 (208 ) Bioproducts 749 200 549 Total Corn Processing 1,079 738 341 Agricultural Services Merchandising and Handling 807 562 245 Transportation 117 96 21 Milling and Other 399 344 55 Total Agricultural Services 1,323 1,002 321 Other Financial 39 46 (7 ) Total Other 39 46 (7 ) Total Segment Operating Profit 4,131 3,337 794 Corporate (see below) (1,116 ) (752 ) (364 ) Earnings Before Income Taxes $ 3,015 $ 2,585 $ 430 Corporate results are as follows: 2011 2010 Change (In millions) LIFO credit $ (368 ) $ 42 $ (410 ) Interest expense net (445 ) (381 ) (64 ) Unallocated corporate costs (326 ) (266 ) (60 ) Charges on early extinguishment of debt (8 ) (75 ) 67 Gains (losses) on interest rate swaps 30 (59 ) 89 Other 1 (13 ) 14 Total Corporate $ (1,116 ) $ (752 ) $ (364 ) Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Oilseeds Processing operating profit increased 9% to $1.7 billion. Crushing and Origination results increased $91 million to $925 million. Improved North American crushing results, particularly for cotton seed and canola, were partially offset by lower crushing margins in South America and Europe. Margins globally were enhanced by good positioning and by improved origination results. In South America, fertilizer results improved due to higher margins and volumes. Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel and Other results increased $42 million to $342 million due principally to higher packaged oils margins and improved North American and European biodiesel results. Cocoa and Other results increased $114 million to $240 million primarily due to the $71 million gain on the revaluation of the Companys equity interest in Golden Peanut and higher peanut profits as a result of the December 31, 2010 acquisition of the remaining 50% interest of Golden Peanut. Asia results decreased $108 million due principally to decreased earnings from the Companys equity investee, Wilmar. Corn Processing operating profit increased 46% to $1.1 billion, which includes favorable impacts from ownership positions, which were allocated to sweeteners and starches and bioproducts based on total grind. Sweeteners and Starches operating profit decreased $208 million to $330 million due to higher net corn costs partially offset by higher sales volumes. Sales volumes increased due to U.S. export shipments of sweeteners and improved U.S. demand for industrial starches. Bioproducts operating profit improved $549 million primarily due to higher ethanol sales volumes and higher average selling prices leading to increased ethanol and lysine margins. Bioproducts margins were also enhanced by favorable corn ownership positions. Bioproducts results included startup costs related to the Companys new plants of $94 million in 2011 compared to $107 million in the prior year. Agricultural Services operating profit increased 32% to $1.3 billion. Merchandising and Handling results increased due to higher corn and wheat sales volumes and higher margins. A large 2010 U.S. harvest combined with strong international demand resulted in higher U.S. export shipments. Merchandising and Handling results in 2011 included an insurance recovery of $67 million related to property damage and business interruption resulting from an October 2008 explosion at the Companys Destrehan, LA, export facility. International merchandising results were weaker in part due to positions impacted by unexpected shifts in crop supply caused by weather conditions and government actions in the Black Sea region. Transportation results increased $21 million to $117 million primarily due to higher barge freight rates and higher barge utilization levels, in part due to higher U.S. export volumes. Milling and Other results improved due principally to increased equity earnings from the Companys equity investee, Gruma which include a $78 million gain related to Grumas disposal of certain assets. Other financial operating profit decreased 15% to $39 million primarily due to higher captive insurance loss provisions principally related to a $67 million loss related to the Companys Destrehan, LA, export facility insurance claim. Corporate results decreased $364 million primarily due to the negative impact from changing LIFO inventory valuations and higher interest expense net. The effects of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory reserves resulted in charges of $368 million compared to credits of $42 million for the prior year. Corporate interest expense increased $64 million mostly due to lower capitalization of interest costs for construction projects in progress. Partially offsetting the higher LIFO and interest costs were $30 million of gains on interest rate swaps compared to prior year losses on interest rate swaps of $59 million. In addition, 2010 included charges of $75 million on early debt extinguishment compared to $8 million of similar charges in 2011. Liquidity and Capital Resources A Company objective is to have sufficient liquidity, balance sheet strength, and financial flexibility to fund the operating and capital requirements of a capital intensive agricultural commodity based business. The primary source of funds to finance the Companys operations and capital expenditures is cash generated by operations and lines of credit, including a commercial paper borrowing facility. In addition, the Company believes it has access to funds from public and private equity and debt capital markets in both U.S. and international markets. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Cash provided by operating activities was $2.9 billion for the year compared to cash used in operating activities of $2.3 billion last year. Working capital decreased $0.3 billion since the beginning of fiscal 2012 due principally to the $1.0 billion account receivable securitization program discussed below. In fiscal 2011 working capital increased $5.2 billion due principally to higher agricultural commodity prices. Cash used in investing activities was $1.1 billion for the year compared to a $1.7 billion use last year. Capital expenditures were $1.5 billion for the year compared to $1.2 billion last year. The Company spent approximately $0.2 billion on acquisitions in fiscal 2012 and 2011. Related to the sale of the majority interest in Hickory Point Bank, the Company reduced its holdings of marketable securities generating cash of $0.3 billion and divested cash of $0.1 billion as a result of the deconsolidation. In fiscal 2011, net purchases of marketable securities used $0.3 billion of cash. Cash used in financing activities was $1.1 billion for the year compared to cash provided by financing activities of $3.6 billion last year. In fiscal 2012, the Company returned nearly $1.0 billion to shareholders in the form of dividends and share repurchases, including the acquisition of 18.4 million of its common shares for $0.5 billion. In fiscal 2011 net borrowings increased primarily to fund higher working capital. Short term borrowings increased due principally to higher commercial paper borrowings, and long term borrowings increased primarily as a result of the issuance of $1.5 billion of 18 month floating rate notes in February 2011. In addition the Company issued 44 million shares of common stock and received $1.75 billion in fiscal 2011 under the forward stock purchase component of the Companys Equity Units (see Note 10 in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data). At June 30, 2012, the Company had $1.5 billion of cash, cash equivalents, and short term marketable securities and a current ratio, defined as current assets divided by current liabilities, of 1.8 to 1. Included in working capital is $7.8 billion of readily marketable commodity inventories. At June 30, 2012, the Companys capital resources included net worth of $18.2 billion and lines of credit totaling $6.5 billion, of which $4.4 billion was unused. The Companys ratio of long term debt to total capital (the sum of the Companys long term debt and shareholders equity) was 26% at June 30, 2012 and 30% at June 30, 2011. This ratio is a measure of the Companys long term indebtedness and is an indicator of financial flexibility. Of the Companys total lines of credit, $4.3 billion support a commercial paper borrowing facility, against which there were $1.3 billion of commercial paper outstanding at June 30, 2012. In August 2012, the Company added a $2.0 billion credit facility which will support commercial paper borrowings. On March 27, 2012, the Company entered into an amendment of its accounts receivable securitization program (as amended, the Program) with certain commercial paper conduit purchasers and committed purchasers (collectively, the Purchasers). The Program provides the Company with up to $1.0 billion in funding against accounts receivable transferred into the Program and expands the Companys access to liquidity through efficient use of its balance sheet assets. Under the Program, certain U.S. originated trade accounts receivable are sold to a wholly owned bankruptcy remote entity, ADM Receivables, LLC (ADM Receivables). ADM Receivables in turn transfers such purchased accounts receivable in their entirety to the Purchasers pursuant to a receivables purchase agreement. In exchange for the transfer of the accounts receivable, ADM Receivables receives a cash payment of up to $1.0 billion and an additional amount upon the collection of the accounts receivable (deferred consideration). ADM Receivables uses the cash proceeds from the transfer of receivables to the Purchasers and other consideration to finance the purchase of receivables from the Company and the ADM subsidiaries originating the receivables. The Company acts as master servicer, responsible for servicing and collecting the accounts receivable under the Program. The Program terminates on June 28, 2013 (see Note 20 for more information and disclosures on the Program). As of June 30, 2012, the fair value of trade receivables transferred to the Purchasers under the Program and derecognized from the Companys consolidated balance sheet was $1.6 billion. In exchange for the transfer, the Company received cash of $1.0 billion and recorded a receivable for deferred consideration included in other current assets. The Company has outstanding $1.4 billion principal amount of floating rate notes due on August 13, 2012. Interest on the notes accrues at a floating rate three month LIBOR reset quarterly plus 0.16% and is paid quarterly. As of June 30, 2012, the interest rate on the notes was 0.63%. In August 2012, the Company paid these notes with funds available from short term borrowings. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) The Company has outstanding $1.15 billion principal amount of convertible senior notes. As of June 30, 2012, none of the conditions permitting conversion of these notes had been satisfied. The Company has purchased call options and warrants intended to reduce the potential shareholder dilution upon future conversion of the notes. As of June 30, 2012, the market price of the Companys common stock was not greater than the exercise price of the purchased call options or warrants related to the convertible senior notes. The Company is currently experiencing generally higher prices for agricultural commodities as a result of tightening crop supplies, mostly due to weather impacts on current year U.S. corn and soybean crop production. Higher prices of commodities have historically correlated with increases in the Companys working capital requirements. The Company depends on access to credit markets, which can be impacted by its credit rating and factors outside of the Companys control, such as the European debt situation, to fund its working capital needs and capital expenditures. The Company expects capital expenditures to range from $0.5 billion to $0.6 billion for the upcoming 6 month period ending December 31, 2012. On November 5, 2009, the Companys Board of Directors approved a stock repurchase program authorizing the Company to repurchase up to 100,000,000 shares of the Companys common stock during the period commencing January 1, 2010 and ending December 31, 2014. The Company has acquired approximately 31.6 million shares under this program, resulting in remaining approval to acquire 68.4 million shares. The Companys credit facilities and certain debentures require the Company to comply with specified financial and non financial covenants including maintenance of minimum tangible net worth as well as limitations related to incurring liens, secured debt, and certain other financing arrangements. The Company is in compliance with these covenants as of June 30, 2012. Contractual Obligations In the normal course of business, the Company enters into contracts and commitments which obligate the Company to make payments in the future. The following table sets forth the Companys significant future obligations by time period. Purchases include commodity based contracts entered into in the normal course of business, which are further described in Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, energy related purchase contracts entered into in the normal course of business, and other purchase obligations related to the Companys normal business activities. The following table does not include unrecognized income tax benefits of $80 million as of June 30, 2012 as the Company is unable to reasonably estimate the timing of settlement. Where applicable, information included in the Companys consolidated financial statements and notes is cross referenced in this table. Payments Due by Period Contractual Item 8 Note Less than 1 3 3 5 More than Obligations Reference Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years (In millions) Purchases Inventories $ 17,724 $ 17,307 $ 211 $ 130 $ 76 Energy 866 390 233 87 156 Other 242 145 86 10 1 Total purchases 18,832 17,842 530 227 233 Short term debt 2,108 2,108 Long term debt Note 10 8,212 1,677 1,114 320 5,101 Estimated interest payments 6,688 374 650 636 5,028 Operating leases Note 16 1,135 244 365 263 263 Estimated pension and other postretirement plan contributions (1) Note 17 188 64 23 25 76 Total $ 37,163 $ 22,309 $ 2,682 $ 1,471 $ 10,701 (1) Includes pension contributions of $53 million for fiscal 2013. The Company is unable to estimate the amount of pension contributions beyond fiscal year 2013. For more information concerning the Companys pension and other postretirement plans, see Note 17 in Item 8. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) At June 30, 2012, the Company estimates it will spend approximately $2.1 billion through calendar year 2015 to complete currently approved capital projects which are not included in the table above. The Company also has outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds of $644 million at June 30, 2012. In addition, the Company has entered into agreements, primarily debt guarantee agreements related to equity method investees, which could obligate the Company to make future payments. The Companys liability under these agreements arises only if the primary entity fails to perform its contractual obligation. The Company has collateral for a portion of these contingent obligations. At June 30, 2012, these contingent obligations totaled approximately $30 million. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements On March 27, 2012, the Company entered into an amendment of its accounts receivable securitization program (as amended, the Program) with certain commercial paper conduit purchasers and committed purchasers (collectively, the Purchasers). Under the Program, certain U.S. originated trade accounts receivable are sold to a wholly owned bankruptcy remote entity, ADM Receivables, LLC (ADM Receivables). ADM Receivables in turn transfers such purchased accounts receivable in their entirety to the Purchasers pursuant to a receivables purchase agreement. In exchange for the transfer of the accounts receivable, ADM Receivables receives a cash payment of up to $1.0 billion and an additional amount upon the collection of the accounts receivable (deferred consideration). ADM Receivables uses the cash proceeds from the transfer of receivables to the Purchasers and other consideration to finance the purchase of receivables from the Company and the ADM subsidiaries originating the receivables. The Company accounts for these transfers as sales. The Company has no retained interests in the transferred receivables, other than collection and administrative responsibilities and its right to the deferred consideration. At June 30, 2012, the Company did not record a servicing asset or liability related to its retained responsibility, based on its assessment of the servicing fee, market values for similar transactions and its cost of servicing the receivables sold. The Program terminates on June 28, 2013. As of June 30, 2012, the fair value of trade receivables transferred to the Purchasers under the Program and derecognized from the Companys consolidated balance sheet was $1.6 billion. In exchange for the transfer, the Company received cash of $1.0 billion and recorded a receivable for deferred consideration included in other current assets. Cash collections from customers on receivables sold were $8.9 billion for the four months ended June 30, 2012. Of this amount, $8.9 billion pertains to cash collections on the deferred consideration. Deferred consideration is paid to the Company in cash on behalf of the Purchasers as receivables are collected; however, as this is a revolving facility, cash collected from the Companys customers is reinvested by the Purchasers daily in new receivable purchases under the Program. The Companys risk of loss following the transfer of accounts receivable under the Program is limited to the deferred consideration outstanding, which is classified as other current assets and was $0.6 billion at June 30, 2012. The Company carries the deferred consideration at fair value determined by calculating the expected amount of cash to be received and is principally based on observable inputs (a Level 2 measurement under ASC 820) consisting mainly of the face amount of the receivables adjusted for anticipated credit losses and discounted at the appropriate market rate. Payment of deferred consideration is not subject to significant risks other than delinquencies and credit losses on accounts receivable transferred under the program which have historically been insignificant. Transfers of receivables under the Program during the year ended June 30, 2012 resulted in an expense for the loss on sale of $4 million which is classified as selling, general, and administrative expenses in the consolidated statements of earnings. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Critical Accounting Policies The process of preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the carrying values of the Companys assets and liabilities as well as the recognition of revenues and expenses. These estimates and judgments are based on the Companys historical experience and managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Certain of the Companys accounting policies are considered critical, as these policies are important to the depiction of the Companys financial statements and require significant or complex judgment by management. Management has discussed with the Companys Audit Committee the development, selection, disclosure, and application of these critical accounting policies. Following are the accounting policies management considers critical to the Companys financial statements. Fair Value Measurements Inventories and Derivatives Certain of the Companys assets and liabilities as of June 30, 2012 are valued at estimated fair values, including $6.8 billion of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, $3.1 billion of derivative assets, $3.0 billion of derivative liabilities, and $0.3 billion of inventory related payables. Derivative assets and liabilities include forward fixed price purchase and sale contracts for agricultural commodities, forward foreign exchange contracts, and over the counter instruments such as options contracts. The merchandisable agricultural commodities are freely traded, have quoted market prices, and may be sold without significant additional processing. Management estimates fair value for its commodity related assets and liabilities based on exchange quoted prices, adjusted for differences in local markets. The Companys fair value measurements are mainly based on observable market quotations without significant adjustments and are therefore reported as Level 1 or Level 2 within the fair value hierarchy. Level 3 fair value measurements represent fair value estimates where unobservable price components represent 10% or more of the total fair value price. For more information concerning amounts reported as Level 3, see Note 3 in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Changes in the market values of these inventories and contracts are recognized in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. If management used different methods or factors to estimate market value, amounts reported as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. Additionally, if market conditions change subsequent to year end, amounts reported in future periods as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. Derivatives Designated Hedging Activities The Company, from time to time, uses derivative contracts designated as cash flow hedges to fix the purchase price of anticipated volumes of commodities to be purchased and processed in a future month, to fix the purchase price of the Companys anticipated natural gas requirements for certain production facilities, and to fix the sales price of anticipated volumes of ethanol. These designated hedging programs principally relate to the Companys Corn Processing operating segment. The change in the market value of such derivative contracts has historically been, and is expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold and net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. If it is determined that the derivative instruments used are no longer effective at offsetting changes in the price of the hedged item, then the changes in the market value of these exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts would be recorded immediately in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. See Note 4 in Item 8 for additional information. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Investments in Affiliates The Company applies the equity method of accounting for investments over which the Company has the ability to exercise significant influence, including its 16.4% investment in Wilmar. These investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings and are adjusted, where appropriate, for amortizable basis differences between the investment balance and the underlying net assets of the investee. Generally, the minimum ownership threshold for asserting significant influence is 20% ownership of the investee. However, the Company considers all relevant factors in determining its ability to assert significant influence including but not limited to, ownership percentage, board membership, customer and vendor relationships, and other arrangements. If management used a different accounting method for these investments, then the amount of earnings from affiliates the Company recognizes may differ. Income Taxes The Company frequently faces challenges from U.S. and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company records reserves for estimates of potential additional tax owed by the Company. As an example, a subsidiary of the Company received tax assessments in the amount of $570 million consisting of tax, penalty, and interest (adjusted for interest and variation in currency exchange rates) from the Brazilian Federal Revenue Service challenging the deductibility of commodity hedging losses incurred by the Company for tax years 2004, 2006 and 2007. The Company evaluated its tax position regarding these hedging transactions and concluded, based in part upon advice from Brazilian legal counsel, that it was appropriate to recognize the tax benefits of these deductions (see Note 15 in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for additional information). Deferred tax assets represent items to be used as tax deductions or credits in future tax returns, and the related tax benefit has already been recognized in the Companys income statement. The realization of the Companys deferred tax assets is dependent upon future taxable income in specific tax jurisdictions, the timing and amount of which are uncertain. The Company evaluates all available positive and negative evidence including estimated future reversals of existing temporary differences, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies, and recent financial results. Valuation allowances related to these deferred tax assets have been established to the extent the realization of the tax benefit is not likely. To the extent the Company were to favorably resolve matters for which accruals have been established or be required to pay amounts in excess of the aforementioned reserves, the Companys effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be impacted. Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and the Companys share of the undistributed earnings of affiliated corporate joint venture companies accounted for on the equity method amounting to approximately $7.2 billion at June 30, 2012, are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Property, Plant, and Equipment and Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand, changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned factors may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and cash flows of the Companys assets in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its facilities. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment, technology, and companies related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. Assets are written down after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these assets, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. During 2012, 2011, and 2010, impairment charges were $367 million, $2 million, and $9 million, respectively (see Note 19 for additional information on charges taken in 2012). Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets Goodwill and intangible assets deemed to have indefinite lives are not amortized but are subject to annual impairment tests. The Company evaluates goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year or whenever there are indicators that the carrying value of the assets may not be fully recoverable. Definite lived intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives and are reviewed for impairment whenever there are indicators that the carrying value of the assets may not be fully recoverable. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its impairment tests, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Employee Benefit Plans The Company provides substantially all U.S. employees and employees at certain international subsidiaries with pension benefits. Eligible U.S. employees with five or more years of service prior to January 1, 2009 participate in a defined benefit pension plan. Eligible U.S. employees hired on or after January 1, 2009 (and eligible salaried employees with less than five years of service prior to January 1, 2009) participate in a cash balance pension formula. The Company provides eligible U.S. employees who retire under qualifying conditions with access to postretirement health care, at full cost to the retiree (certain employees are grandfathered into subsidized coverage). In order to measure the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans, management makes several estimates and assumptions, including interest rates used to discount certain liabilities, rates of return on assets set aside to fund these plans, rates of compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and anticipated future health care costs. These estimates and assumptions are based on the Companys historical experience combined with managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Management also uses third party actuaries to assist in measuring the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans. If management used different estimates and assumptions regarding these plans, the funded status of the plans could vary significantly, and the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. See Note 17 in Item 8 for additional information. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in: commodity market prices as they relate to the Companys net commodity position, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and prices of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to factors such as changes in weather conditions, crop disease, plantings, government programs and policies, competition, changes in global demand, changes in customer preferences and standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. The Company manages its exposure to adverse price movements of agricultural commodities used for, and produced in, its business operations, by entering into derivative and non derivative contracts which reduce the Companys overall short or long commodity position. Additionally, the Company uses exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the correlation between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contract defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company, from time to time, enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed designated hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold or net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. The Companys commodity position consists of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, related purchase and sales contracts, energy and freight contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts including contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements, net of sales. The fair value of the Companys commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing all of the commodity positions at quoted market prices for the period, where available, or utilizing a close proxy. The Company has established metrics to monitor the amount of market risk exposure, which consist of volumetric limits, and value at risk (VaR) limits. VaR measures the potential loss, at a 95% confidence level, that could be incurred over a one year period. Volumetric limits are monitored daily and VaR calculations and sensitivity analysis are monitored weekly. In addition to measuring the hypothetical loss resulting from an adverse two standard deviation move in market prices (assuming no correlations) over a one year period using VaR, sensitivity analysis is performed measuring the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in market prices. The highest, lowest, and average weekly position for each of the last two years together with the market risk from a hypothetical 10% adverse price change is as follows: 2012 2011 Long/(Short) Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest position $ 1,477 $ 148 $ 2,388 $ 239 Lowest position (383 ) (38 ) 368 37 Average position 546 55 1,644 164 The decline in fair value of the average position for 2012 compared to 2011 was principally the result of the decline in average quantities underlying the weekly commodity position. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) Currencies The Company has consolidated subsidiaries in over 75 countries. For the majority of the Companys subsidiaries located outside the United States, the local currency is the functional currency. To reduce the risks associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, the Company enters into currency exchange contracts to minimize its foreign currency position related to transactions denominated primarily in Euro, British pound, Canadian dollar, and Brazilian real currencies. These currencies represent the major functional or local currencies in which recurring business transactions occur. The Company does not use currency exchange contracts as hedges against amounts permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The currency exchange contracts used are forward contracts, swaps with banks, exchange traded futures contracts, and over the counter options. The changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $7.2 billion at June 30, 2012, and $8.2 billion at June 30, 2011. This decrease is due to the depreciation of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar partially offset by an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The potential loss in fair value, which would principally be recognized in Other Comprehensive Income, resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $722 million and $823 million for 2012 and 2011, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 50 basis points decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2012 2011 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 8,057 $ 9,108 Excess of fair value over carrying value 1,522 842 Market risk 422 333 The decrease in fair value of long term debt in 2012 resulted principally from the reclassification of $1.5 billion in floating rate notes to short term debt partially offset by decreased interest rates. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) 2011 Compared to 2010 As an agricultural commodity based business, the Company is subject to a variety of market factors which affect the Companys operating results. In 2011, prices for certain agricultural commodities were higher in response to growing global demand and tighter crop supplies. The projections of lower 2011 carryover stocks for certain key commodities, coupled with regional crop supply dislocations for certain commodities, also led to high commodity price volatility. Global demand for agricultural commodities grew in 2011, resulting in increased sales volumes for most of the Companys products. The large 2010 North American harvest resulted in global merchandising, handling, and processing opportunities. Protein meal markets for commercial livestock producers in the U.S., particularly poultry producers, faced challenging conditions. Biodiesel markets in Europe and South America, together with the 2011 extension of the U.S. biodiesel blenders credit, helped support global demand for refined and crude vegetable oils. Sweeteners and starches demand remained strong in 2011 due primarily to U.S. exports of sweeteners and improved demand for industrial starches. Ethanol sales volumes, including increased volumes as the Companys new dry mills ramped up, were supported by favorable gasoline blending economics in the U.S. and good export demand. Net earnings increased $106 million to $2.0 billion due principally to a $794 million increase in segment operating profit partially offset by a negative impact from changing LIFO inventory valuations and higher income taxes. In 2011, the Company successfully managed through significant increases in market prices for most of its agricultural commodity raw materials, resulting in increased segment operating profit. Earnings before income taxes includes charges of $368 million from the effect of increasing agricultural commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuation reserves, compared to credits of $42 million in the prior year caused by decreasing agricultural commodity prices. Income taxes increased $331 million due to a higher effective income tax rate and higher earnings before income taxes. The effective income tax rate of 33.1% for 2011 was the result of changes in the geographic mix of earnings and unfavorable specific tax items. The fully diluted earnings per share calculation for 2011 was impacted by the completion of the Companys debt remarketing related to the $1.75 billion Equity Units. While the approximately 44 million new common shares related to the $1.75 billion Equity Units were not issued until June 1, 2011, the if converted method of accounting for diluted earnings per share required diluted EPS to be calculated as if the Company issued the shares on January 1, 2011, and this assumption resulted in a dilutive impact of $0.04 on earnings per share (See Note 11 in the accompanying consolidated financial statements). Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Analysis of Statements of Earnings Net sales and other operating income by segment are as follows: 2011 2010 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing and Origination $ 16,518 $ 14,411 $ 2,107 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel, and Other 9,476 7,133 2,343 Cocoa and Other 3,652 2,678 974 Asia 262 190 72 Total Oilseeds Processing 29,908 24,412 5,496 Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 3,766 3,264 502 Bioproducts 6,142 4,610 1,532 Total Corn Processing 9,908 7,874 2,034 Agricultural Services Merchandising and Handling 36,852 25,751 11,101 Transportation 222 167 55 Milling and Other 3,676 3,383 293 Total Agricultural Services 40,750 29,301 11,449 Other Financial 110 95 15 Total Other 110 95 15 Total $ 80,676 $ 61,682 $ 18,994 Net sales and other operating income increased $19.0 billion, or 31%, to $80.7 billion. Net sales and other operating income increased $14.2 billion due to higher average selling prices, primarily related to higher underlying commodity costs, and increased $4.8 billion due to increased sales volumes, including sales volumes from acquisitions. Agricultural Services sales increased 39% to $40.8 billion due to higher average selling prices of agricultural commodities and higher global sales volumes. Oilseeds Processing sales increased 23% to $29.9 billion primarily due to higher average selling prices for vegetable oils, soybeans, biodiesel, and protein meal. Corn Processing sales increased 26% to $9.9 billion due to higher average selling prices and increased sales volumes of ethanol and other corn products, in part due to the Companys two new ethanol dry mills coming on line. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Cost of products sold increased 32% to $76.4 billion due to higher costs of agricultural commodities, negative impacts resulting from changes in LIFO inventory valuations, and higher manufacturing costs. Cost of products sold includes charges of $368 million from the effect of increasing agricultural commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuation reserves, compared to credits of $42 million in the prior year caused by decreasing agricultural commodity prices. Manufacturing expenses increased $410 million due primarily to higher processed volumes, including the volumes of the Companys new greenfield operations coming on line, and higher average unit costs for certain chemicals and fuels used in the Companys processing and transportation operations. During the second quarter of fiscal 2011, the Company updated its estimates for service lives of certain of its machinery and equipment assets. This change in estimate resulted in a $133 million decrease in depreciation expense compared to the amount of depreciation expense the Company would have recorded using the previously estimated service lives. Manufacturing expenses included $94 million in fiscal 2011 related to the start up of new plants compared to $110 million in the prior year. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased 15% to $1.6 billion. This increase was due to higher employee related costs and higher administrative expenses. Higher employee related costs principally reflect the increase in number of employees during the year and included higher salaries and wages, higher accruals for performance based compensation and higher benefit expenses. Equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates declined 3% to $542 million. The decline in earnings from the Companys equity investee, Wilmar, was partially offset by higher earnings of the Companys equity investee, Gruma, in part due to a gain on Grumas disposition of certain assets. Interest income increased 8% to $136 million principally resulting from higher interest earned on advances to affiliates. Interest expense increased 14% to $482 million. Interest costs capitalized as a component of major construction projects in progress was $7 million compared to $75 million in the prior year. Interest incurred on long term debt declined $24 million as a result of debt retirements while interest incurred on short term debt increased $15 million due to higher average borrowings driven by higher working capital requirements. Other (income) expense net increased $255 million primarily due to the $71 million gain resulting from the revaluation of the Companys previously held equity interest in Golden Peanut upon acquisition of the remaining 50% interest, gains on interest rate swaps of $30 million compared to a loss of $59 million in the prior year, and a decrease in charges related to early extinguishment of debt from $75 million in the prior year to $15 million in the current year. Income taxes increased $331 million to $997 million due to a higher effective income tax rate and higher pretax earnings. The Companys effective income tax rate increased to 33.1% during 2011 compared to 25.8% in fiscal 2010. The increase in the 2011 rate was primarily due to a geographic mix of earnings that shifted more to the U.S., a higher U.S. effective income tax rate, income tax expense associated with foreign currency re measurement of non monetary assets in Brazil, and adjustments to deferred income tax balances. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Operating profit by segment is as follows: 2011 2010 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing and Origination $ 925 $ 834 $ 91 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel, and Other 342 300 42 Cocoa and Other 240 126 114 Asia 183 291 (108 ) Total Oilseeds Processing 1,690 1,551 139 Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 330 538 (208 ) Bioproducts 749 200 549 Total Corn Processing 1,079 738 341 Agricultural Services Merchandising and Handling 807 562 245 Transportation 117 96 21 Milling and Other 399 344 55 Total Agricultural Services 1,323 1,002 321 Other Financial 39 46 (7 ) Total Other 39 46 (7 ) Total Segment Operating Profit 4,131 3,337 794 Corporate (see below) (1,116 ) (752 ) (364 ) Earnings Before Income Taxes $ 3,015 $ 2,585 $ 430 Corporate results are as follows: 2011 2010 Change (In millions) LIFO credit $ (368 ) $ 42 $ (410 ) Interest expense net (445 ) (381 ) (64 ) Unallocated corporate costs (326 ) (266 ) (60 ) Charges on early extinguishment of debt (8 ) (75 ) 67 Gains (losses) on interest rate swaps 30 (59 ) 89 Other 1 (13 ) 14 Total Corporate $ (1,116 ) $ (752 ) $ (364 ) Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Oilseeds Processing operating profit increased 9% to $1.7 billion. Crushing and Origination results increased $91 million to $925 million. Improved North American crushing results, particularly for cotton seed and canola, were partially offset by lower crushing margins in South America and Europe. Margins globally were enhanced by good positioning and by improved origination results. In South America, fertilizer results improved due to higher margins and volumes. Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel and Other results increased $42 million to $342 million due principally to higher packaged oils margins and improved North American and European biodiesel results. Cocoa and Other results increased $114 million to $240 million primarily due to the $71 million gain on the revaluation of the Companys equity interest in Golden Peanut and higher peanut profits as a result of the December 31, 2010 acquisition of the remaining 50% interest of Golden Peanut. Asia results decreased $108 million due principally to decreased earnings from the Companys equity investee, Wilmar. Corn Processing operating profit increased 46% to $1.1 billion, which includes favorable impacts from ownership positions, which were allocated to sweeteners and starches and bioproducts based on total grind. Sweeteners and Starches operating profit decreased $208 million to $330 million due to higher net corn costs partially offset by higher sales volumes. Sales volumes increased due to U.S. export shipments of sweeteners and improved U.S. demand for industrial starches. Bioproducts operating profit improved $549 million primarily due to higher ethanol sales volumes and higher average selling prices leading to increased ethanol and lysine margins. Bioproducts margins were also enhanced by favorable corn ownership positions. Bioproducts results included startup costs related to the Companys new plants of $94 million in 2011 compared to $107 million in the prior year. Agricultural Services operating profit increased 32% to $1.3 billion. Merchandising and Handling results increased due to higher corn and wheat sales volumes and higher margins. A large 2010 U.S. harvest combined with strong international demand resulted in higher U.S. export shipments. Merchandising and Handling results in 2011 included an insurance recovery of $67 million related to property damage and business interruption resulting from an October 2008 explosion at the Companys Destrehan, LA, export facility. International merchandising results were weaker in part due to positions impacted by unexpected shifts in crop supply caused by weather conditions and government actions in the Black Sea region. Transportation results increased $21 million to $117 million primarily due to higher barge freight rates and higher barge utilization levels, in part due to higher U.S. export volumes. Milling and Other results improved due principally to increased equity earnings from the Companys equity investee, Gruma which include a $78 million gain related to Grumas disposal of certain assets. Other financial operating profit decreased 15% to $39 million primarily due to higher captive insurance loss provisions principally related to a $67 million loss related to the Companys Destrehan, LA, export facility insurance claim. Corporate results decreased $364 million primarily due to the negative impact from changing LIFO inventory valuations and higher interest expense net. The effects of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory reserves resulted in charges of $368 million compared to credits of $42 million for the prior year. Corporate interest expense increased $64 million mostly due to lower capitalization of interest costs for construction projects in progress. Partially offsetting the higher LIFO and interest costs were $30 million of gains on interest rate swaps compared to prior year losses on interest rate swaps of $59 million. In addition, 2010 included charges of $75 million on early debt extinguishment compared to $8 million of similar charges in 2011. Liquidity and Capital Resources A Company objective is to have sufficient liquidity, balance sheet strength, and financial flexibility to fund the operating and capital requirements of a capital intensive agricultural commodity based business. The primary source of funds to finance the Companys operations and capital expenditures is cash generated by operations and lines of credit, including a commercial paper borrowing facility. In addition, the Company believes it has access to funds from public and private equity and debt capital markets in both U.S. and international markets. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Cash provided by operating activities was $2.9 billion for the year compared to cash used in operating activities of $2.3 billion last year. Working capital decreased $0.3 billion since the beginning of fiscal 2012 due principally to the $1.0 billion account receivable securitization program discussed below. In fiscal 2011 working capital increased $5.2 billion due principally to higher agricultural commodity prices. Cash used in investing activities was $1.1 billion for the year compared to a $1.7 billion use last year. Capital expenditures were $1.5 billion for the year compared to $1.2 billion last year. The Company spent approximately $0.2 billion on acquisitions in fiscal 2012 and 2011. Related to the sale of the majority interest in Hickory Point Bank, the Company reduced its holdings of marketable securities generating cash of $0.3 billion and divested cash of $0.1 billion as a result of the deconsolidation. In fiscal 2011, net purchases of marketable securities used $0.3 billion of cash. Cash used in financing activities was $1.1 billion for the year compared to cash provided by financing activities of $3.6 billion last year. In fiscal 2012, the Company returned nearly $1.0 billion to shareholders in the form of dividends and share repurchases, including the acquisition of 18.4 million of its common shares for $0.5 billion. In fiscal 2011 net borrowings increased primarily to fund higher working capital. Short term borrowings increased due principally to higher commercial paper borrowings, and long term borrowings increased primarily as a result of the issuance of $1.5 billion of 18 month floating rate notes in February 2011. In addition the Company issued 44 million shares of common stock and received $1.75 billion in fiscal 2011 under the forward stock purchase component of the Companys Equity Units (see Note 10 in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data). At June 30, 2012, the Company had $1.5 billion of cash, cash equivalents, and short term marketable securities and a current ratio, defined as current assets divided by current liabilities, of 1.8 to 1. Included in working capital is $7.8 billion of readily marketable commodity inventories. At June 30, 2012, the Companys capital resources included net worth of $18.2 billion and lines of credit totaling $6.5 billion, of which $4.4 billion was unused. The Companys ratio of long term debt to total capital (the sum of the Companys long term debt and shareholders equity) was 26% at June 30, 2012 and 30% at June 30, 2011. This ratio is a measure of the Companys long term indebtedness and is an indicator of financial flexibility. Of the Companys total lines of credit, $4.3 billion support a commercial paper borrowing facility, against which there were $1.3 billion of commercial paper outstanding at June 30, 2012. In August 2012, the Company added a $2.0 billion credit facility which will support commercial paper borrowings. On March 27, 2012, the Company entered into an amendment of its accounts receivable securitization program (as amended, the Program) with certain commercial paper conduit purchasers and committed purchasers (collectively, the Purchasers). The Program provides the Company with up to $1.0 billion in funding against accounts receivable transferred into the Program and expands the Companys access to liquidity through efficient use of its balance sheet assets. Under the Program, certain U.S. originated trade accounts receivable are sold to a wholly owned bankruptcy remote entity, ADM Receivables, LLC (ADM Receivables). ADM Receivables in turn transfers such purchased accounts receivable in their entirety to the Purchasers pursuant to a receivables purchase agreement. In exchange for the transfer of the accounts receivable, ADM Receivables receives a cash payment of up to $1.0 billion and an additional amount upon the collection of the accounts receivable (deferred consideration). ADM Receivables uses the cash proceeds from the transfer of receivables to the Purchasers and other consideration to finance the purchase of receivables from the Company and the ADM subsidiaries originating the receivables. The Company acts as master servicer, responsible for servicing and collecting the accounts receivable under the Program. The Program terminates on June 28, 2013 (see Note 20 for more information and disclosures on the Program). As of June 30, 2012, the fair value of trade receivables transferred to the Purchasers under the Program and derecognized from the Companys consolidated balance sheet was $1.6 billion. In exchange for the transfer, the Company received cash of $1.0 billion and recorded a receivable for deferred consideration included in other current assets. The Company has outstanding $1.4 billion principal amount of floating rate notes due on August 13, 2012. Interest on the notes accrues at a floating rate three month LIBOR reset quarterly plus 0.16% and is paid quarterly. As of June 30, 2012, the interest rate on the notes was 0.63%. In August 2012, the Company paid these notes with funds available from short term borrowings. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) The Company has outstanding $1.15 billion principal amount of convertible senior notes. As of June 30, 2012, none of the conditions permitting conversion of these notes had been satisfied. The Company has purchased call options and warrants intended to reduce the potential shareholder dilution upon future conversion of the notes. As of June 30, 2012, the market price of the Companys common stock was not greater than the exercise price of the purchased call options or warrants related to the convertible senior notes. The Company is currently experiencing generally higher prices for agricultural commodities as a result of tightening crop supplies, mostly due to weather impacts on current year U.S. corn and soybean crop production. Higher prices of commodities have historically correlated with increases in the Companys working capital requirements. The Company depends on access to credit markets, which can be impacted by its credit rating and factors outside of the Companys control, such as the European debt situation, to fund its working capital needs and capital expenditures. The Company expects capital expenditures to range from $0.5 billion to $0.6 billion for the upcoming 6 month period ending December 31, 2012. On November 5, 2009, the Companys Board of Directors approved a stock repurchase program authorizing the Company to repurchase up to 100,000,000 shares of the Companys common stock during the period commencing January 1, 2010 and ending December 31, 2014. The Company has acquired approximately 31.6 million shares under this program, resulting in remaining approval to acquire 68.4 million shares. The Companys credit facilities and certain debentures require the Company to comply with specified financial and non financial covenants including maintenance of minimum tangible net worth as well as limitations related to incurring liens, secured debt, and certain other financing arrangements. The Company is in compliance with these covenants as of June 30, 2012. Contractual Obligations In the normal course of business, the Company enters into contracts and commitments which obligate the Company to make payments in the future. The following table sets forth the Companys significant future obligations by time period. Purchases include commodity based contracts entered into in the normal course of business, which are further described in Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, energy related purchase contracts entered into in the normal course of business, and other purchase obligations related to the Companys normal business activities. The following table does not include unrecognized income tax benefits of $80 million as of June 30, 2012 as the Company is unable to reasonably estimate the timing of settlement. Where applicable, information included in the Companys consolidated financial statements and notes is cross referenced in this table. Payments Due by Period Contractual Item 8 Note Less than 1 3 3 5 More than Obligations Reference Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years (In millions) Purchases Inventories $ 17,724 $ 17,307 $ 211 $ 130 $ 76 Energy 866 390 233 87 156 Other 242 145 86 10 1 Total purchases 18,832 17,842 530 227 233 Short term debt 2,108 2,108 Long term debt Note 10 8,212 1,677 1,114 320 5,101 Estimated interest payments 6,688 374 650 636 5,028 Operating leases Note 16 1,135 244 365 263 263 Estimated pension and other postretirement plan contributions (1) Note 17 188 64 23 25 76 Total $ 37,163 $ 22,309 $ 2,682 $ 1,471 $ 10,701 (1) Includes pension contributions of $53 million for fiscal 2013. The Company is unable to estimate the amount of pension contributions beyond fiscal year 2013. For more information concerning the Companys pension and other postretirement plans, see Note 17 in Item 8. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) At June 30, 2012, the Company estimates it will spend approximately $2.1 billion through calendar year 2015 to complete currently approved capital projects which are not included in the table above. The Company also has outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds of $644 million at June 30, 2012. In addition, the Company has entered into agreements, primarily debt guarantee agreements related to equity method investees, which could obligate the Company to make future payments. The Companys liability under these agreements arises only if the primary entity fails to perform its contractual obligation. The Company has collateral for a portion of these contingent obligations. At June 30, 2012, these contingent obligations totaled approximately $30 million. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements On March 27, 2012, the Company entered into an amendment of its accounts receivable securitization program (as amended, the Program) with certain commercial paper conduit purchasers and committed purchasers (collectively, the Purchasers). Under the Program, certain U.S. originated trade accounts receivable are sold to a wholly owned bankruptcy remote entity, ADM Receivables, LLC (ADM Receivables). ADM Receivables in turn transfers such purchased accounts receivable in their entirety to the Purchasers pursuant to a receivables purchase agreement. In exchange for the transfer of the accounts receivable, ADM Receivables receives a cash payment of up to $1.0 billion and an additional amount upon the collection of the accounts receivable (deferred consideration). ADM Receivables uses the cash proceeds from the transfer of receivables to the Purchasers and other consideration to finance the purchase of receivables from the Company and the ADM subsidiaries originating the receivables. The Company accounts for these transfers as sales. The Company has no retained interests in the transferred receivables, other than collection and administrative responsibilities and its right to the deferred consideration. At June 30, 2012, the Company did not record a servicing asset or liability related to its retained responsibility, based on its assessment of the servicing fee, market values for similar transactions and its cost of servicing the receivables sold. The Program terminates on June 28, 2013. As of June 30, 2012, the fair value of trade receivables transferred to the Purchasers under the Program and derecognized from the Companys consolidated balance sheet was $1.6 billion. In exchange for the transfer, the Company received cash of $1.0 billion and recorded a receivable for deferred consideration included in other current assets. Cash collections from customers on receivables sold were $8.9 billion for the four months ended June 30, 2012. Of this amount, $8.9 billion pertains to cash collections on the deferred consideration. Deferred consideration is paid to the Company in cash on behalf of the Purchasers as receivables are collected; however, as this is a revolving facility, cash collected from the Companys customers is reinvested by the Purchasers daily in new receivable purchases under the Program. The Companys risk of loss following the transfer of accounts receivable under the Program is limited to the deferred consideration outstanding, which is classified as other current assets and was $0.6 billion at June 30, 2012. The Company carries the deferred consideration at fair value determined by calculating the expected amount of cash to be received and is principally based on observable inputs (a Level 2 measurement under ASC 820) consisting mainly of the face amount of the receivables adjusted for anticipated credit losses and discounted at the appropriate market rate. Payment of deferred consideration is not subject to significant risks other than delinquencies and credit losses on accounts receivable transferred under the program which have historically been insignificant. Transfers of receivables under the Program during the year ended June 30, 2012 resulted in an expense for the loss on sale of $4 million which is classified as selling, general, and administrative expenses in the consolidated statements of earnings. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Critical Accounting Policies The process of preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the carrying values of the Companys assets and liabilities as well as the recognition of revenues and expenses. These estimates and judgments are based on the Companys historical experience and managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Certain of the Companys accounting policies are considered critical, as these policies are important to the depiction of the Companys financial statements and require significant or complex judgment by management. Management has discussed with the Companys Audit Committee the development, selection, disclosure, and application of these critical accounting policies. Following are the accounting policies management considers critical to the Companys financial statements. Fair Value Measurements Inventories and Derivatives Certain of the Companys assets and liabilities as of June 30, 2012 are valued at estimated fair values, including $6.8 billion of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, $3.1 billion of derivative assets, $3.0 billion of derivative liabilities, and $0.3 billion of inventory related payables. Derivative assets and liabilities include forward fixed price purchase and sale contracts for agricultural commodities, forward foreign exchange contracts, and over the counter instruments such as options contracts. The merchandisable agricultural commodities are freely traded, have quoted market prices, and may be sold without significant additional processing. Management estimates fair value for its commodity related assets and liabilities based on exchange quoted prices, adjusted for differences in local markets. The Companys fair value measurements are mainly based on observable market quotations without significant adjustments and are therefore reported as Level 1 or Level 2 within the fair value hierarchy. Level 3 fair value measurements represent fair value estimates where unobservable price components represent 10% or more of the total fair value price. For more information concerning amounts reported as Level 3, see Note 3 in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Changes in the market values of these inventories and contracts are recognized in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. If management used different methods or factors to estimate market value, amounts reported as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. Additionally, if market conditions change subsequent to year end, amounts reported in future periods as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. Derivatives Designated Hedging Activities The Company, from time to time, uses derivative contracts designated as cash flow hedges to fix the purchase price of anticipated volumes of commodities to be purchased and processed in a future month, to fix the purchase price of the Companys anticipated natural gas requirements for certain production facilities, and to fix the sales price of anticipated volumes of ethanol. These designated hedging programs principally relate to the Companys Corn Processing operating segment. The change in the market value of such derivative contracts has historically been, and is expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold and net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. If it is determined that the derivative instruments used are no longer effective at offsetting changes in the price of the hedged item, then the changes in the market value of these exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts would be recorded immediately in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. See Note 4 in Item 8 for additional information. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Investments in Affiliates The Company applies the equity method of accounting for investments over which the Company has the ability to exercise significant influence, including its 16.4% investment in Wilmar. These investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings and are adjusted, where appropriate, for amortizable basis differences between the investment balance and the underlying net assets of the investee. Generally, the minimum ownership threshold for asserting significant influence is 20% ownership of the investee. However, the Company considers all relevant factors in determining its ability to assert significant influence including but not limited to, ownership percentage, board membership, customer and vendor relationships, and other arrangements. If management used a different accounting method for these investments, then the amount of earnings from affiliates the Company recognizes may differ. Income Taxes The Company frequently faces challenges from U.S. and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company records reserves for estimates of potential additional tax owed by the Company. As an example, a subsidiary of the Company received tax assessments in the amount of $570 million consisting of tax, penalty, and interest (adjusted for interest and variation in currency exchange rates) from the Brazilian Federal Revenue Service challenging the deductibility of commodity hedging losses incurred by the Company for tax years 2004, 2006 and 2007. The Company evaluated its tax position regarding these hedging transactions and concluded, based in part upon advice from Brazilian legal counsel, that it was appropriate to recognize the tax benefits of these deductions (see Note 15 in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for additional information). Deferred tax assets represent items to be used as tax deductions or credits in future tax returns, and the related tax benefit has already been recognized in the Companys income statement. The realization of the Companys deferred tax assets is dependent upon future taxable income in specific tax jurisdictions, the timing and amount of which are uncertain. The Company evaluates all available positive and negative evidence including estimated future reversals of existing temporary differences, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies, and recent financial results. Valuation allowances related to these deferred tax assets have been established to the extent the realization of the tax benefit is not likely. To the extent the Company were to favorably resolve matters for which accruals have been established or be required to pay amounts in excess of the aforementioned reserves, the Companys effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be impacted. Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and the Companys share of the undistributed earnings of affiliated corporate joint venture companies accounted for on the equity method amounting to approximately $7.2 billion at June 30, 2012, are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Property, Plant, and Equipment and Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand, changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned factors may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and cash flows of the Companys assets in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its facilities. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment, technology, and companies related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. Assets are written down after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these assets, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. During 2012, 2011, and 2010, impairment charges were $367 million, $2 million, and $9 million, respectively (see Note 19 for additional information on charges taken in 2012). Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets Goodwill and intangible assets deemed to have indefinite lives are not amortized but are subject to annual impairment tests. The Company evaluates goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year or whenever there are indicators that the carrying value of the assets may not be fully recoverable. Definite lived intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives and are reviewed for impairment whenever there are indicators that the carrying value of the assets may not be fully recoverable. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its impairment tests, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Employee Benefit Plans The Company provides substantially all U.S. employees and employees at certain international subsidiaries with pension benefits. Eligible U.S. employees with five or more years of service prior to January 1, 2009 participate in a defined benefit pension plan. Eligible U.S. employees hired on or after January 1, 2009 (and eligible salaried employees with less than five years of service prior to January 1, 2009) participate in a cash balance pension formula. The Company provides eligible U.S. employees who retire under qualifying conditions with access to postretirement health care, at full cost to the retiree (certain employees are grandfathered into subsidized coverage). In order to measure the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans, management makes several estimates and assumptions, including interest rates used to discount certain liabilities, rates of return on assets set aside to fund these plans, rates of compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and anticipated future health care costs. These estimates and assumptions are based on the Companys historical experience combined with managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Management also uses third party actuaries to assist in measuring the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans. If management used different estimates and assumptions regarding these plans, the funded status of the plans could vary significantly, and the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. See Note 17 in Item 8 for additional information. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in: commodity market prices as they relate to the Companys net commodity position, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and prices of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to factors such as changes in weather conditions, crop disease, plantings, government programs and policies, competition, changes in global demand, changes in customer preferences and standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. The Company manages its exposure to adverse price movements of agricultural commodities used for, and produced in, its business operations, by entering into derivative and non derivative contracts which reduce the Companys overall short or long commodity position. Additionally, the Company uses exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the correlation between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contract defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company, from time to time, enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed designated hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold or net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. The Companys commodity position consists of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, related purchase and sales contracts, energy and freight contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts including contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements, net of sales. The fair value of the Companys commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing all of the commodity positions at quoted market prices for the period, where available, or utilizing a close proxy. The Company has established metrics to monitor the amount of market risk exposure, which consist of volumetric limits, and value at risk (VaR) limits. VaR measures the potential loss, at a 95% confidence level, that could be incurred over a one year period. Volumetric limits are monitored daily and VaR calculations and sensitivity analysis are monitored weekly. In addition to measuring the hypothetical loss resulting from an adverse two standard deviation move in market prices (assuming no correlations) over a one year period using VaR, sensitivity analysis is performed measuring the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in market prices. The highest, lowest, and average weekly position for each of the last two years together with the market risk from a hypothetical 10% adverse price change is as follows: 2012 2011 Long/(Short) Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest position $ 1,477 $ 148 $ 2,388 $ 239 Lowest position (383 ) (38 ) 368 37 Average position 546 55 1,644 164 The decline in fair value of the average position for 2012 compared to 2011 was principally the result of the decline in average quantities underlying the weekly commodity position. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) Currencies The Company has consolidated subsidiaries in over 75 countries. For the majority of the Companys subsidiaries located outside the United States, the local currency is the functional currency. To reduce the risks associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, the Company enters into currency exchange contracts to minimize its foreign currency position related to transactions denominated primarily in Euro, British pound, Canadian dollar, and Brazilian real currencies. These currencies represent the major functional or local currencies in which recurring business transactions occur. The Company does not use currency exchange contracts as hedges against amounts permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The currency exchange contracts used are forward contracts, swaps with banks, exchange traded futures contracts, and over the counter options. The changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $7.2 billion at June 30, 2012, and $8.2 billion at June 30, 2011. This decrease is due to the depreciation of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar partially offset by an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The potential loss in fair value, which would principally be recognized in Other Comprehensive Income, resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $722 million and $823 million for 2012 and 2011, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 50 basis points decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2012 2011 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 8,057 $ 9,108 Excess of fair value over carrying value 1,522 842 Market risk 422 333 The decrease in fair value of long term debt in 2012 resulted principally from the reclassification of $1.5 billion in floating rate notes to short term debt partially offset by decreased interest rates. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Analysis of Statements of Earnings Net sales and other operating income by segment are as follows: 2011 2010 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing and Origination $ 16,518 $ 14,411 $ 2,107 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel, and Other 9,476 7,133 2,343 Cocoa and Other 3,652 2,678 974 Asia 262 190 72 Total Oilseeds Processing 29,908 24,412 5,496 Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 3,766 3,264 502 Bioproducts 6,142 4,610 1,532 Total Corn Processing 9,908 7,874 2,034 Agricultural Services Merchandising and Handling 36,852 25,751 11,101 Transportation 222 167 55 Milling and Other 3,676 3,383 293 Total Agricultural Services 40,750 29,301 11,449 Other Financial 110 95 15 Total Other 110 95 15 Total $ 80,676 $ 61,682 $ 18,994 Net sales and other operating income increased $19.0 billion, or 31%, to $80.7 billion. Net sales and other operating income increased $14.2 billion due to higher average selling prices, primarily related to higher underlying commodity costs, and increased $4.8 billion due to increased sales volumes, including sales volumes from acquisitions. Agricultural Services sales increased 39% to $40.8 billion due to higher average selling prices of agricultural commodities and higher global sales volumes. Oilseeds Processing sales increased 23% to $29.9 billion primarily due to higher average selling prices for vegetable oils, soybeans, biodiesel, and protein meal. Corn Processing sales increased 26% to $9.9 billion due to higher average selling prices and increased sales volumes of ethanol and other corn products, in part due to the Companys two new ethanol dry mills coming on line. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Cost of products sold increased 32% to $76.4 billion due to higher costs of agricultural commodities, negative impacts resulting from changes in LIFO inventory valuations, and higher manufacturing costs. Cost of products sold includes charges of $368 million from the effect of increasing agricultural commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuation reserves, compared to credits of $42 million in the prior year caused by decreasing agricultural commodity prices. Manufacturing expenses increased $410 million due primarily to higher processed volumes, including the volumes of the Companys new greenfield operations coming on line, and higher average unit costs for certain chemicals and fuels used in the Companys processing and transportation operations. During the second quarter of fiscal 2011, the Company updated its estimates for service lives of certain of its machinery and equipment assets. This change in estimate resulted in a $133 million decrease in depreciation expense compared to the amount of depreciation expense the Company would have recorded using the previously estimated service lives. Manufacturing expenses included $94 million in fiscal 2011 related to the start up of new plants compared to $110 million in the prior year. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased 15% to $1.6 billion. This increase was due to higher employee related costs and higher administrative expenses. Higher employee related costs principally reflect the increase in number of employees during the year and included higher salaries and wages, higher accruals for performance based compensation and higher benefit expenses. Equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates declined 3% to $542 million. The decline in earnings from the Companys equity investee, Wilmar, was partially offset by higher earnings of the Companys equity investee, Gruma, in part due to a gain on Grumas disposition of certain assets. Interest income increased 8% to $136 million principally resulting from higher interest earned on advances to affiliates. Interest expense increased 14% to $482 million. Interest costs capitalized as a component of major construction projects in progress was $7 million compared to $75 million in the prior year. Interest incurred on long term debt declined $24 million as a result of debt retirements while interest incurred on short term debt increased $15 million due to higher average borrowings driven by higher working capital requirements. Other (income) expense net increased $255 million primarily due to the $71 million gain resulting from the revaluation of the Companys previously held equity interest in Golden Peanut upon acquisition of the remaining 50% interest, gains on interest rate swaps of $30 million compared to a loss of $59 million in the prior year, and a decrease in charges related to early extinguishment of debt from $75 million in the prior year to $15 million in the current year. Income taxes increased $331 million to $997 million due to a higher effective income tax rate and higher pretax earnings. The Companys effective income tax rate increased to 33.1% during 2011 compared to 25.8% in fiscal 2010. The increase in the 2011 rate was primarily due to a geographic mix of earnings that shifted more to the U.S., a higher U.S. effective income tax rate, income tax expense associated with foreign currency re measurement of non monetary assets in Brazil, and adjustments to deferred income tax balances. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Operating profit by segment is as follows: 2011 2010 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing and Origination $ 925 $ 834 $ 91 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel, and Other 342 300 42 Cocoa and Other 240 126 114 Asia 183 291 (108 ) Total Oilseeds Processing 1,690 1,551 139 Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 330 538 (208 ) Bioproducts 749 200 549 Total Corn Processing 1,079 738 341 Agricultural Services Merchandising and Handling 807 562 245 Transportation 117 96 21 Milling and Other 399 344 55 Total Agricultural Services 1,323 1,002 321 Other Financial 39 46 (7 ) Total Other 39 46 (7 ) Total Segment Operating Profit 4,131 3,337 794 Corporate (see below) (1,116 ) (752 ) (364 ) Earnings Before Income Taxes $ 3,015 $ 2,585 $ 430 Corporate results are as follows: 2011 2010 Change (In millions) LIFO credit $ (368 ) $ 42 $ (410 ) Interest expense net (445 ) (381 ) (64 ) Unallocated corporate costs (326 ) (266 ) (60 ) Charges on early extinguishment of debt (8 ) (75 ) 67 Gains (losses) on interest rate swaps 30 (59 ) 89 Other 1 (13 ) 14 Total Corporate $ (1,116 ) $ (752 ) $ (364 ) Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Oilseeds Processing operating profit increased 9% to $1.7 billion. Crushing and Origination results increased $91 million to $925 million. Improved North American crushing results, particularly for cotton seed and canola, were partially offset by lower crushing margins in South America and Europe. Margins globally were enhanced by good positioning and by improved origination results. In South America, fertilizer results improved due to higher margins and volumes. Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel and Other results increased $42 million to $342 million due principally to higher packaged oils margins and improved North American and European biodiesel results. Cocoa and Other results increased $114 million to $240 million primarily due to the $71 million gain on the revaluation of the Companys equity interest in Golden Peanut and higher peanut profits as a result of the December 31, 2010 acquisition of the remaining 50% interest of Golden Peanut. Asia results decreased $108 million due principally to decreased earnings from the Companys equity investee, Wilmar. Corn Processing operating profit increased 46% to $1.1 billion, which includes favorable impacts from ownership positions, which were allocated to sweeteners and starches and bioproducts based on total grind. Sweeteners and Starches operating profit decreased $208 million to $330 million due to higher net corn costs partially offset by higher sales volumes. Sales volumes increased due to U.S. export shipments of sweeteners and improved U.S. demand for industrial starches. Bioproducts operating profit improved $549 million primarily due to higher ethanol sales volumes and higher average selling prices leading to increased ethanol and lysine margins. Bioproducts margins were also enhanced by favorable corn ownership positions. Bioproducts results included startup costs related to the Companys new plants of $94 million in 2011 compared to $107 million in the prior year. Agricultural Services operating profit increased 32% to $1.3 billion. Merchandising and Handling results increased due to higher corn and wheat sales volumes and higher margins. A large 2010 U.S. harvest combined with strong international demand resulted in higher U.S. export shipments. Merchandising and Handling results in 2011 included an insurance recovery of $67 million related to property damage and business interruption resulting from an October 2008 explosion at the Companys Destrehan, LA, export facility. International merchandising results were weaker in part due to positions impacted by unexpected shifts in crop supply caused by weather conditions and government actions in the Black Sea region. Transportation results increased $21 million to $117 million primarily due to higher barge freight rates and higher barge utilization levels, in part due to higher U.S. export volumes. Milling and Other results improved due principally to increased equity earnings from the Companys equity investee, Gruma which include a $78 million gain related to Grumas disposal of certain assets. Other financial operating profit decreased 15% to $39 million primarily due to higher captive insurance loss provisions principally related to a $67 million loss related to the Companys Destrehan, LA, export facility insurance claim. Corporate results decreased $364 million primarily due to the negative impact from changing LIFO inventory valuations and higher interest expense net. The effects of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory reserves resulted in charges of $368 million compared to credits of $42 million for the prior year. Corporate interest expense increased $64 million mostly due to lower capitalization of interest costs for construction projects in progress. Partially offsetting the higher LIFO and interest costs were $30 million of gains on interest rate swaps compared to prior year losses on interest rate swaps of $59 million. In addition, 2010 included charges of $75 million on early debt extinguishment compared to $8 million of similar charges in 2011. Liquidity and Capital Resources A Company objective is to have sufficient liquidity, balance sheet strength, and financial flexibility to fund the operating and capital requirements of a capital intensive agricultural commodity based business. The primary source of funds to finance the Companys operations and capital expenditures is cash generated by operations and lines of credit, including a commercial paper borrowing facility. In addition, the Company believes it has access to funds from public and private equity and debt capital markets in both U.S. and international markets. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Cash provided by operating activities was $2.9 billion for the year compared to cash used in operating activities of $2.3 billion last year. Working capital decreased $0.3 billion since the beginning of fiscal 2012 due principally to the $1.0 billion account receivable securitization program discussed below. In fiscal 2011 working capital increased $5.2 billion due principally to higher agricultural commodity prices. Cash used in investing activities was $1.1 billion for the year compared to a $1.7 billion use last year. Capital expenditures were $1.5 billion for the year compared to $1.2 billion last year. The Company spent approximately $0.2 billion on acquisitions in fiscal 2012 and 2011. Related to the sale of the majority interest in Hickory Point Bank, the Company reduced its holdings of marketable securities generating cash of $0.3 billion and divested cash of $0.1 billion as a result of the deconsolidation. In fiscal 2011, net purchases of marketable securities used $0.3 billion of cash. Cash used in financing activities was $1.1 billion for the year compared to cash provided by financing activities of $3.6 billion last year. In fiscal 2012, the Company returned nearly $1.0 billion to shareholders in the form of dividends and share repurchases, including the acquisition of 18.4 million of its common shares for $0.5 billion. In fiscal 2011 net borrowings increased primarily to fund higher working capital. Short term borrowings increased due principally to higher commercial paper borrowings, and long term borrowings increased primarily as a result of the issuance of $1.5 billion of 18 month floating rate notes in February 2011. In addition the Company issued 44 million shares of common stock and received $1.75 billion in fiscal 2011 under the forward stock purchase component of the Companys Equity Units (see Note 10 in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data). At June 30, 2012, the Company had $1.5 billion of cash, cash equivalents, and short term marketable securities and a current ratio, defined as current assets divided by current liabilities, of 1.8 to 1. Included in working capital is $7.8 billion of readily marketable commodity inventories. At June 30, 2012, the Companys capital resources included net worth of $18.2 billion and lines of credit totaling $6.5 billion, of which $4.4 billion was unused. The Companys ratio of long term debt to total capital (the sum of the Companys long term debt and shareholders equity) was 26% at June 30, 2012 and 30% at June 30, 2011. This ratio is a measure of the Companys long term indebtedness and is an indicator of financial flexibility. Of the Companys total lines of credit, $4.3 billion support a commercial paper borrowing facility, against which there were $1.3 billion of commercial paper outstanding at June 30, 2012. In August 2012, the Company added a $2.0 billion credit facility which will support commercial paper borrowings. On March 27, 2012, the Company entered into an amendment of its accounts receivable securitization program (as amended, the Program) with certain commercial paper conduit purchasers and committed purchasers (collectively, the Purchasers). The Program provides the Company with up to $1.0 billion in funding against accounts receivable transferred into the Program and expands the Companys access to liquidity through efficient use of its balance sheet assets. Under the Program, certain U.S. originated trade accounts receivable are sold to a wholly owned bankruptcy remote entity, ADM Receivables, LLC (ADM Receivables). ADM Receivables in turn transfers such purchased accounts receivable in their entirety to the Purchasers pursuant to a receivables purchase agreement. In exchange for the transfer of the accounts receivable, ADM Receivables receives a cash payment of up to $1.0 billion and an additional amount upon the collection of the accounts receivable (deferred consideration). ADM Receivables uses the cash proceeds from the transfer of receivables to the Purchasers and other consideration to finance the purchase of receivables from the Company and the ADM subsidiaries originating the receivables. The Company acts as master servicer, responsible for servicing and collecting the accounts receivable under the Program. The Program terminates on June 28, 2013 (see Note 20 for more information and disclosures on the Program). As of June 30, 2012, the fair value of trade receivables transferred to the Purchasers under the Program and derecognized from the Companys consolidated balance sheet was $1.6 billion. In exchange for the transfer, the Company received cash of $1.0 billion and recorded a receivable for deferred consideration included in other current assets. The Company has outstanding $1.4 billion principal amount of floating rate notes due on August 13, 2012. Interest on the notes accrues at a floating rate three month LIBOR reset quarterly plus 0.16% and is paid quarterly. As of June 30, 2012, the interest rate on the notes was 0.63%. In August 2012, the Company paid these notes with funds available from short term borrowings. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) The Company has outstanding $1.15 billion principal amount of convertible senior notes. As of June 30, 2012, none of the conditions permitting conversion of these notes had been satisfied. The Company has purchased call options and warrants intended to reduce the potential shareholder dilution upon future conversion of the notes. As of June 30, 2012, the market price of the Companys common stock was not greater than the exercise price of the purchased call options or warrants related to the convertible senior notes. The Company is currently experiencing generally higher prices for agricultural commodities as a result of tightening crop supplies, mostly due to weather impacts on current year U.S. corn and soybean crop production. Higher prices of commodities have historically correlated with increases in the Companys working capital requirements. The Company depends on access to credit markets, which can be impacted by its credit rating and factors outside of the Companys control, such as the European debt situation, to fund its working capital needs and capital expenditures. The Company expects capital expenditures to range from $0.5 billion to $0.6 billion for the upcoming 6 month period ending December 31, 2012. On November 5, 2009, the Companys Board of Directors approved a stock repurchase program authorizing the Company to repurchase up to 100,000,000 shares of the Companys common stock during the period commencing January 1, 2010 and ending December 31, 2014. The Company has acquired approximately 31.6 million shares under this program, resulting in remaining approval to acquire 68.4 million shares. The Companys credit facilities and certain debentures require the Company to comply with specified financial and non financial covenants including maintenance of minimum tangible net worth as well as limitations related to incurring liens, secured debt, and certain other financing arrangements. The Company is in compliance with these covenants as of June 30, 2012. Contractual Obligations In the normal course of business, the Company enters into contracts and commitments which obligate the Company to make payments in the future. The following table sets forth the Companys significant future obligations by time period. Purchases include commodity based contracts entered into in the normal course of business, which are further described in Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, energy related purchase contracts entered into in the normal course of business, and other purchase obligations related to the Companys normal business activities. The following table does not include unrecognized income tax benefits of $80 million as of June 30, 2012 as the Company is unable to reasonably estimate the timing of settlement. Where applicable, information included in the Companys consolidated financial statements and notes is cross referenced in this table. Payments Due by Period Contractual Item 8 Note Less than 1 3 3 5 More than Obligations Reference Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years (In millions) Purchases Inventories $ 17,724 $ 17,307 $ 211 $ 130 $ 76 Energy 866 390 233 87 156 Other 242 145 86 10 1 Total purchases 18,832 17,842 530 227 233 Short term debt 2,108 2,108 Long term debt Note 10 8,212 1,677 1,114 320 5,101 Estimated interest payments 6,688 374 650 636 5,028 Operating leases Note 16 1,135 244 365 263 263 Estimated pension and other postretirement plan contributions (1) Note 17 188 64 23 25 76 Total $ 37,163 $ 22,309 $ 2,682 $ 1,471 $ 10,701 (1) Includes pension contributions of $53 million for fiscal 2013. The Company is unable to estimate the amount of pension contributions beyond fiscal year 2013. For more information concerning the Companys pension and other postretirement plans, see Note 17 in Item 8. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) At June 30, 2012, the Company estimates it will spend approximately $2.1 billion through calendar year 2015 to complete currently approved capital projects which are not included in the table above. The Company also has outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds of $644 million at June 30, 2012. In addition, the Company has entered into agreements, primarily debt guarantee agreements related to equity method investees, which could obligate the Company to make future payments. The Companys liability under these agreements arises only if the primary entity fails to perform its contractual obligation. The Company has collateral for a portion of these contingent obligations. At June 30, 2012, these contingent obligations totaled approximately $30 million. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements On March 27, 2012, the Company entered into an amendment of its accounts receivable securitization program (as amended, the Program) with certain commercial paper conduit purchasers and committed purchasers (collectively, the Purchasers). Under the Program, certain U.S. originated trade accounts receivable are sold to a wholly owned bankruptcy remote entity, ADM Receivables, LLC (ADM Receivables). ADM Receivables in turn transfers such purchased accounts receivable in their entirety to the Purchasers pursuant to a receivables purchase agreement. In exchange for the transfer of the accounts receivable, ADM Receivables receives a cash payment of up to $1.0 billion and an additional amount upon the collection of the accounts receivable (deferred consideration). ADM Receivables uses the cash proceeds from the transfer of receivables to the Purchasers and other consideration to finance the purchase of receivables from the Company and the ADM subsidiaries originating the receivables. The Company accounts for these transfers as sales. The Company has no retained interests in the transferred receivables, other than collection and administrative responsibilities and its right to the deferred consideration. At June 30, 2012, the Company did not record a servicing asset or liability related to its retained responsibility, based on its assessment of the servicing fee, market values for similar transactions and its cost of servicing the receivables sold. The Program terminates on June 28, 2013. As of June 30, 2012, the fair value of trade receivables transferred to the Purchasers under the Program and derecognized from the Companys consolidated balance sheet was $1.6 billion. In exchange for the transfer, the Company received cash of $1.0 billion and recorded a receivable for deferred consideration included in other current assets. Cash collections from customers on receivables sold were $8.9 billion for the four months ended June 30, 2012. Of this amount, $8.9 billion pertains to cash collections on the deferred consideration. Deferred consideration is paid to the Company in cash on behalf of the Purchasers as receivables are collected; however, as this is a revolving facility, cash collected from the Companys customers is reinvested by the Purchasers daily in new receivable purchases under the Program. The Companys risk of loss following the transfer of accounts receivable under the Program is limited to the deferred consideration outstanding, which is classified as other current assets and was $0.6 billion at June 30, 2012. The Company carries the deferred consideration at fair value determined by calculating the expected amount of cash to be received and is principally based on observable inputs (a Level 2 measurement under ASC 820) consisting mainly of the face amount of the receivables adjusted for anticipated credit losses and discounted at the appropriate market rate. Payment of deferred consideration is not subject to significant risks other than delinquencies and credit losses on accounts receivable transferred under the program which have historically been insignificant. Transfers of receivables under the Program during the year ended June 30, 2012 resulted in an expense for the loss on sale of $4 million which is classified as selling, general, and administrative expenses in the consolidated statements of earnings. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Critical Accounting Policies The process of preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the carrying values of the Companys assets and liabilities as well as the recognition of revenues and expenses. These estimates and judgments are based on the Companys historical experience and managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Certain of the Companys accounting policies are considered critical, as these policies are important to the depiction of the Companys financial statements and require significant or complex judgment by management. Management has discussed with the Companys Audit Committee the development, selection, disclosure, and application of these critical accounting policies. Following are the accounting policies management considers critical to the Companys financial statements. Fair Value Measurements Inventories and Derivatives Certain of the Companys assets and liabilities as of June 30, 2012 are valued at estimated fair values, including $6.8 billion of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, $3.1 billion of derivative assets, $3.0 billion of derivative liabilities, and $0.3 billion of inventory related payables. Derivative assets and liabilities include forward fixed price purchase and sale contracts for agricultural commodities, forward foreign exchange contracts, and over the counter instruments such as options contracts. The merchandisable agricultural commodities are freely traded, have quoted market prices, and may be sold without significant additional processing. Management estimates fair value for its commodity related assets and liabilities based on exchange quoted prices, adjusted for differences in local markets. The Companys fair value measurements are mainly based on observable market quotations without significant adjustments and are therefore reported as Level 1 or Level 2 within the fair value hierarchy. Level 3 fair value measurements represent fair value estimates where unobservable price components represent 10% or more of the total fair value price. For more information concerning amounts reported as Level 3, see Note 3 in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Changes in the market values of these inventories and contracts are recognized in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. If management used different methods or factors to estimate market value, amounts reported as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. Additionally, if market conditions change subsequent to year end, amounts reported in future periods as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. Derivatives Designated Hedging Activities The Company, from time to time, uses derivative contracts designated as cash flow hedges to fix the purchase price of anticipated volumes of commodities to be purchased and processed in a future month, to fix the purchase price of the Companys anticipated natural gas requirements for certain production facilities, and to fix the sales price of anticipated volumes of ethanol. These designated hedging programs principally relate to the Companys Corn Processing operating segment. The change in the market value of such derivative contracts has historically been, and is expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold and net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. If it is determined that the derivative instruments used are no longer effective at offsetting changes in the price of the hedged item, then the changes in the market value of these exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts would be recorded immediately in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. See Note 4 in Item 8 for additional information. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Investments in Affiliates The Company applies the equity method of accounting for investments over which the Company has the ability to exercise significant influence, including its 16.4% investment in Wilmar. These investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings and are adjusted, where appropriate, for amortizable basis differences between the investment balance and the underlying net assets of the investee. Generally, the minimum ownership threshold for asserting significant influence is 20% ownership of the investee. However, the Company considers all relevant factors in determining its ability to assert significant influence including but not limited to, ownership percentage, board membership, customer and vendor relationships, and other arrangements. If management used a different accounting method for these investments, then the amount of earnings from affiliates the Company recognizes may differ. Income Taxes The Company frequently faces challenges from U.S. and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company records reserves for estimates of potential additional tax owed by the Company. As an example, a subsidiary of the Company received tax assessments in the amount of $570 million consisting of tax, penalty, and interest (adjusted for interest and variation in currency exchange rates) from the Brazilian Federal Revenue Service challenging the deductibility of commodity hedging losses incurred by the Company for tax years 2004, 2006 and 2007. The Company evaluated its tax position regarding these hedging transactions and concluded, based in part upon advice from Brazilian legal counsel, that it was appropriate to recognize the tax benefits of these deductions (see Note 15 in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for additional information). Deferred tax assets represent items to be used as tax deductions or credits in future tax returns, and the related tax benefit has already been recognized in the Companys income statement. The realization of the Companys deferred tax assets is dependent upon future taxable income in specific tax jurisdictions, the timing and amount of which are uncertain. The Company evaluates all available positive and negative evidence including estimated future reversals of existing temporary differences, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies, and recent financial results. Valuation allowances related to these deferred tax assets have been established to the extent the realization of the tax benefit is not likely. To the extent the Company were to favorably resolve matters for which accruals have been established or be required to pay amounts in excess of the aforementioned reserves, the Companys effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be impacted. Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and the Companys share of the undistributed earnings of affiliated corporate joint venture companies accounted for on the equity method amounting to approximately $7.2 billion at June 30, 2012, are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Property, Plant, and Equipment and Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand, changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned factors may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and cash flows of the Companys assets in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its facilities. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment, technology, and companies related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. Assets are written down after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these assets, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. During 2012, 2011, and 2010, impairment charges were $367 million, $2 million, and $9 million, respectively (see Note 19 for additional information on charges taken in 2012). Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets Goodwill and intangible assets deemed to have indefinite lives are not amortized but are subject to annual impairment tests. The Company evaluates goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year or whenever there are indicators that the carrying value of the assets may not be fully recoverable. Definite lived intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives and are reviewed for impairment whenever there are indicators that the carrying value of the assets may not be fully recoverable. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its impairment tests, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Employee Benefit Plans The Company provides substantially all U.S. employees and employees at certain international subsidiaries with pension benefits. Eligible U.S. employees with five or more years of service prior to January 1, 2009 participate in a defined benefit pension plan. Eligible U.S. employees hired on or after January 1, 2009 (and eligible salaried employees with less than five years of service prior to January 1, 2009) participate in a cash balance pension formula. The Company provides eligible U.S. employees who retire under qualifying conditions with access to postretirement health care, at full cost to the retiree (certain employees are grandfathered into subsidized coverage). In order to measure the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans, management makes several estimates and assumptions, including interest rates used to discount certain liabilities, rates of return on assets set aside to fund these plans, rates of compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and anticipated future health care costs. These estimates and assumptions are based on the Companys historical experience combined with managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Management also uses third party actuaries to assist in measuring the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans. If management used different estimates and assumptions regarding these plans, the funded status of the plans could vary significantly, and the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. See Note 17 in Item 8 for additional information. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in: commodity market prices as they relate to the Companys net commodity position, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and prices of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to factors such as changes in weather conditions, crop disease, plantings, government programs and policies, competition, changes in global demand, changes in customer preferences and standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. The Company manages its exposure to adverse price movements of agricultural commodities used for, and produced in, its business operations, by entering into derivative and non derivative contracts which reduce the Companys overall short or long commodity position. Additionally, the Company uses exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the correlation between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contract defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company, from time to time, enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed designated hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold or net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. The Companys commodity position consists of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, related purchase and sales contracts, energy and freight contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts including contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements, net of sales. The fair value of the Companys commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing all of the commodity positions at quoted market prices for the period, where available, or utilizing a close proxy. The Company has established metrics to monitor the amount of market risk exposure, which consist of volumetric limits, and value at risk (VaR) limits. VaR measures the potential loss, at a 95% confidence level, that could be incurred over a one year period. Volumetric limits are monitored daily and VaR calculations and sensitivity analysis are monitored weekly. In addition to measuring the hypothetical loss resulting from an adverse two standard deviation move in market prices (assuming no correlations) over a one year period using VaR, sensitivity analysis is performed measuring the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in market prices. The highest, lowest, and average weekly position for each of the last two years together with the market risk from a hypothetical 10% adverse price change is as follows: 2012 2011 Long/(Short) Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest position $ 1,477 $ 148 $ 2,388 $ 239 Lowest position (383 ) (38 ) 368 37 Average position 546 55 1,644 164 The decline in fair value of the average position for 2012 compared to 2011 was principally the result of the decline in average quantities underlying the weekly commodity position. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) Currencies The Company has consolidated subsidiaries in over 75 countries. For the majority of the Companys subsidiaries located outside the United States, the local currency is the functional currency. To reduce the risks associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, the Company enters into currency exchange contracts to minimize its foreign currency position related to transactions denominated primarily in Euro, British pound, Canadian dollar, and Brazilian real currencies. These currencies represent the major functional or local currencies in which recurring business transactions occur. The Company does not use currency exchange contracts as hedges against amounts permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The currency exchange contracts used are forward contracts, swaps with banks, exchange traded futures contracts, and over the counter options. The changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $7.2 billion at June 30, 2012, and $8.2 billion at June 30, 2011. This decrease is due to the depreciation of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar partially offset by an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The potential loss in fair value, which would principally be recognized in Other Comprehensive Income, resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $722 million and $823 million for 2012 and 2011, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 50 basis points decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2012 2011 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 8,057 $ 9,108 Excess of fair value over carrying value 1,522 842 Market risk 422 333 The decrease in fair value of long term debt in 2012 resulted principally from the reclassification of $1.5 billion in floating rate notes to short term debt partially offset by decreased interest rates. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Cost of products sold increased 32% to $76.4 billion due to higher costs of agricultural commodities, negative impacts resulting from changes in LIFO inventory valuations, and higher manufacturing costs. Cost of products sold includes charges of $368 million from the effect of increasing agricultural commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuation reserves, compared to credits of $42 million in the prior year caused by decreasing agricultural commodity prices. Manufacturing expenses increased $410 million due primarily to higher processed volumes, including the volumes of the Companys new greenfield operations coming on line, and higher average unit costs for certain chemicals and fuels used in the Companys processing and transportation operations. During the second quarter of fiscal 2011, the Company updated its estimates for service lives of certain of its machinery and equipment assets. This change in estimate resulted in a $133 million decrease in depreciation expense compared to the amount of depreciation expense the Company would have recorded using the previously estimated service lives. Manufacturing expenses included $94 million in fiscal 2011 related to the start up of new plants compared to $110 million in the prior year. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased 15% to $1.6 billion. This increase was due to higher employee related costs and higher administrative expenses. Higher employee related costs principally reflect the increase in number of employees during the year and included higher salaries and wages, higher accruals for performance based compensation and higher benefit expenses. Equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates declined 3% to $542 million. The decline in earnings from the Companys equity investee, Wilmar, was partially offset by higher earnings of the Companys equity investee, Gruma, in part due to a gain on Grumas disposition of certain assets. Interest income increased 8% to $136 million principally resulting from higher interest earned on advances to affiliates. Interest expense increased 14% to $482 million. Interest costs capitalized as a component of major construction projects in progress was $7 million compared to $75 million in the prior year. Interest incurred on long term debt declined $24 million as a result of debt retirements while interest incurred on short term debt increased $15 million due to higher average borrowings driven by higher working capital requirements. Other (income) expense net increased $255 million primarily due to the $71 million gain resulting from the revaluation of the Companys previously held equity interest in Golden Peanut upon acquisition of the remaining 50% interest, gains on interest rate swaps of $30 million compared to a loss of $59 million in the prior year, and a decrease in charges related to early extinguishment of debt from $75 million in the prior year to $15 million in the current year. Income taxes increased $331 million to $997 million due to a higher effective income tax rate and higher pretax earnings. The Companys effective income tax rate increased to 33.1% during 2011 compared to 25.8% in fiscal 2010. The increase in the 2011 rate was primarily due to a geographic mix of earnings that shifted more to the U.S., a higher U.S. effective income tax rate, income tax expense associated with foreign currency re measurement of non monetary assets in Brazil, and adjustments to deferred income tax balances. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Operating profit by segment is as follows: 2011 2010 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing and Origination $ 925 $ 834 $ 91 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel, and Other 342 300 42 Cocoa and Other 240 126 114 Asia 183 291 (108 ) Total Oilseeds Processing 1,690 1,551 139 Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 330 538 (208 ) Bioproducts 749 200 549 Total Corn Processing 1,079 738 341 Agricultural Services Merchandising and Handling 807 562 245 Transportation 117 96 21 Milling and Other 399 344 55 Total Agricultural Services 1,323 1,002 321 Other Financial 39 46 (7 ) Total Other 39 46 (7 ) Total Segment Operating Profit 4,131 3,337 794 Corporate (see below) (1,116 ) (752 ) (364 ) Earnings Before Income Taxes $ 3,015 $ 2,585 $ 430 Corporate results are as follows: 2011 2010 Change (In millions) LIFO credit $ (368 ) $ 42 $ (410 ) Interest expense net (445 ) (381 ) (64 ) Unallocated corporate costs (326 ) (266 ) (60 ) Charges on early extinguishment of debt (8 ) (75 ) 67 Gains (losses) on interest rate swaps 30 (59 ) 89 Other 1 (13 ) 14 Total Corporate $ (1,116 ) $ (752 ) $ (364 ) Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Oilseeds Processing operating profit increased 9% to $1.7 billion. Crushing and Origination results increased $91 million to $925 million. Improved North American crushing results, particularly for cotton seed and canola, were partially offset by lower crushing margins in South America and Europe. Margins globally were enhanced by good positioning and by improved origination results. In South America, fertilizer results improved due to higher margins and volumes. Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel and Other results increased $42 million to $342 million due principally to higher packaged oils margins and improved North American and European biodiesel results. Cocoa and Other results increased $114 million to $240 million primarily due to the $71 million gain on the revaluation of the Companys equity interest in Golden Peanut and higher peanut profits as a result of the December 31, 2010 acquisition of the remaining 50% interest of Golden Peanut. Asia results decreased $108 million due principally to decreased earnings from the Companys equity investee, Wilmar. Corn Processing operating profit increased 46% to $1.1 billion, which includes favorable impacts from ownership positions, which were allocated to sweeteners and starches and bioproducts based on total grind. Sweeteners and Starches operating profit decreased $208 million to $330 million due to higher net corn costs partially offset by higher sales volumes. Sales volumes increased due to U.S. export shipments of sweeteners and improved U.S. demand for industrial starches. Bioproducts operating profit improved $549 million primarily due to higher ethanol sales volumes and higher average selling prices leading to increased ethanol and lysine margins. Bioproducts margins were also enhanced by favorable corn ownership positions. Bioproducts results included startup costs related to the Companys new plants of $94 million in 2011 compared to $107 million in the prior year. Agricultural Services operating profit increased 32% to $1.3 billion. Merchandising and Handling results increased due to higher corn and wheat sales volumes and higher margins. A large 2010 U.S. harvest combined with strong international demand resulted in higher U.S. export shipments. Merchandising and Handling results in 2011 included an insurance recovery of $67 million related to property damage and business interruption resulting from an October 2008 explosion at the Companys Destrehan, LA, export facility. International merchandising results were weaker in part due to positions impacted by unexpected shifts in crop supply caused by weather conditions and government actions in the Black Sea region. Transportation results increased $21 million to $117 million primarily due to higher barge freight rates and higher barge utilization levels, in part due to higher U.S. export volumes. Milling and Other results improved due principally to increased equity earnings from the Companys equity investee, Gruma which include a $78 million gain related to Grumas disposal of certain assets. Other financial operating profit decreased 15% to $39 million primarily due to higher captive insurance loss provisions principally related to a $67 million loss related to the Companys Destrehan, LA, export facility insurance claim. Corporate results decreased $364 million primarily due to the negative impact from changing LIFO inventory valuations and higher interest expense net. The effects of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory reserves resulted in charges of $368 million compared to credits of $42 million for the prior year. Corporate interest expense increased $64 million mostly due to lower capitalization of interest costs for construction projects in progress. Partially offsetting the higher LIFO and interest costs were $30 million of gains on interest rate swaps compared to prior year losses on interest rate swaps of $59 million. In addition, 2010 included charges of $75 million on early debt extinguishment compared to $8 million of similar charges in 2011. Liquidity and Capital Resources A Company objective is to have sufficient liquidity, balance sheet strength, and financial flexibility to fund the operating and capital requirements of a capital intensive agricultural commodity based business. The primary source of funds to finance the Companys operations and capital expenditures is cash generated by operations and lines of credit, including a commercial paper borrowing facility. In addition, the Company believes it has access to funds from public and private equity and debt capital markets in both U.S. and international markets. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Cash provided by operating activities was $2.9 billion for the year compared to cash used in operating activities of $2.3 billion last year. Working capital decreased $0.3 billion since the beginning of fiscal 2012 due principally to the $1.0 billion account receivable securitization program discussed below. In fiscal 2011 working capital increased $5.2 billion due principally to higher agricultural commodity prices. Cash used in investing activities was $1.1 billion for the year compared to a $1.7 billion use last year. Capital expenditures were $1.5 billion for the year compared to $1.2 billion last year. The Company spent approximately $0.2 billion on acquisitions in fiscal 2012 and 2011. Related to the sale of the majority interest in Hickory Point Bank, the Company reduced its holdings of marketable securities generating cash of $0.3 billion and divested cash of $0.1 billion as a result of the deconsolidation. In fiscal 2011, net purchases of marketable securities used $0.3 billion of cash. Cash used in financing activities was $1.1 billion for the year compared to cash provided by financing activities of $3.6 billion last year. In fiscal 2012, the Company returned nearly $1.0 billion to shareholders in the form of dividends and share repurchases, including the acquisition of 18.4 million of its common shares for $0.5 billion. In fiscal 2011 net borrowings increased primarily to fund higher working capital. Short term borrowings increased due principally to higher commercial paper borrowings, and long term borrowings increased primarily as a result of the issuance of $1.5 billion of 18 month floating rate notes in February 2011. In addition the Company issued 44 million shares of common stock and received $1.75 billion in fiscal 2011 under the forward stock purchase component of the Companys Equity Units (see Note 10 in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data). At June 30, 2012, the Company had $1.5 billion of cash, cash equivalents, and short term marketable securities and a current ratio, defined as current assets divided by current liabilities, of 1.8 to 1. Included in working capital is $7.8 billion of readily marketable commodity inventories. At June 30, 2012, the Companys capital resources included net worth of $18.2 billion and lines of credit totaling $6.5 billion, of which $4.4 billion was unused. The Companys ratio of long term debt to total capital (the sum of the Companys long term debt and shareholders equity) was 26% at June 30, 2012 and 30% at June 30, 2011. This ratio is a measure of the Companys long term indebtedness and is an indicator of financial flexibility. Of the Companys total lines of credit, $4.3 billion support a commercial paper borrowing facility, against which there were $1.3 billion of commercial paper outstanding at June 30, 2012. In August 2012, the Company added a $2.0 billion credit facility which will support commercial paper borrowings. On March 27, 2012, the Company entered into an amendment of its accounts receivable securitization program (as amended, the Program) with certain commercial paper conduit purchasers and committed purchasers (collectively, the Purchasers). The Program provides the Company with up to $1.0 billion in funding against accounts receivable transferred into the Program and expands the Companys access to liquidity through efficient use of its balance sheet assets. Under the Program, certain U.S. originated trade accounts receivable are sold to a wholly owned bankruptcy remote entity, ADM Receivables, LLC (ADM Receivables). ADM Receivables in turn transfers such purchased accounts receivable in their entirety to the Purchasers pursuant to a receivables purchase agreement. In exchange for the transfer of the accounts receivable, ADM Receivables receives a cash payment of up to $1.0 billion and an additional amount upon the collection of the accounts receivable (deferred consideration). ADM Receivables uses the cash proceeds from the transfer of receivables to the Purchasers and other consideration to finance the purchase of receivables from the Company and the ADM subsidiaries originating the receivables. The Company acts as master servicer, responsible for servicing and collecting the accounts receivable under the Program. The Program terminates on June 28, 2013 (see Note 20 for more information and disclosures on the Program). As of June 30, 2012, the fair value of trade receivables transferred to the Purchasers under the Program and derecognized from the Companys consolidated balance sheet was $1.6 billion. In exchange for the transfer, the Company received cash of $1.0 billion and recorded a receivable for deferred consideration included in other current assets. The Company has outstanding $1.4 billion principal amount of floating rate notes due on August 13, 2012. Interest on the notes accrues at a floating rate three month LIBOR reset quarterly plus 0.16% and is paid quarterly. As of June 30, 2012, the interest rate on the notes was 0.63%. In August 2012, the Company paid these notes with funds available from short term borrowings. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) The Company has outstanding $1.15 billion principal amount of convertible senior notes. As of June 30, 2012, none of the conditions permitting conversion of these notes had been satisfied. The Company has purchased call options and warrants intended to reduce the potential shareholder dilution upon future conversion of the notes. As of June 30, 2012, the market price of the Companys common stock was not greater than the exercise price of the purchased call options or warrants related to the convertible senior notes. The Company is currently experiencing generally higher prices for agricultural commodities as a result of tightening crop supplies, mostly due to weather impacts on current year U.S. corn and soybean crop production. Higher prices of commodities have historically correlated with increases in the Companys working capital requirements. The Company depends on access to credit markets, which can be impacted by its credit rating and factors outside of the Companys control, such as the European debt situation, to fund its working capital needs and capital expenditures. The Company expects capital expenditures to range from $0.5 billion to $0.6 billion for the upcoming 6 month period ending December 31, 2012. On November 5, 2009, the Companys Board of Directors approved a stock repurchase program authorizing the Company to repurchase up to 100,000,000 shares of the Companys common stock during the period commencing January 1, 2010 and ending December 31, 2014. The Company has acquired approximately 31.6 million shares under this program, resulting in remaining approval to acquire 68.4 million shares. The Companys credit facilities and certain debentures require the Company to comply with specified financial and non financial covenants including maintenance of minimum tangible net worth as well as limitations related to incurring liens, secured debt, and certain other financing arrangements. The Company is in compliance with these covenants as of June 30, 2012. Contractual Obligations In the normal course of business, the Company enters into contracts and commitments which obligate the Company to make payments in the future. The following table sets forth the Companys significant future obligations by time period. Purchases include commodity based contracts entered into in the normal course of business, which are further described in Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, energy related purchase contracts entered into in the normal course of business, and other purchase obligations related to the Companys normal business activities. The following table does not include unrecognized income tax benefits of $80 million as of June 30, 2012 as the Company is unable to reasonably estimate the timing of settlement. Where applicable, information included in the Companys consolidated financial statements and notes is cross referenced in this table. Payments Due by Period Contractual Item 8 Note Less than 1 3 3 5 More than Obligations Reference Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years (In millions) Purchases Inventories $ 17,724 $ 17,307 $ 211 $ 130 $ 76 Energy 866 390 233 87 156 Other 242 145 86 10 1 Total purchases 18,832 17,842 530 227 233 Short term debt 2,108 2,108 Long term debt Note 10 8,212 1,677 1,114 320 5,101 Estimated interest payments 6,688 374 650 636 5,028 Operating leases Note 16 1,135 244 365 263 263 Estimated pension and other postretirement plan contributions (1) Note 17 188 64 23 25 76 Total $ 37,163 $ 22,309 $ 2,682 $ 1,471 $ 10,701 (1) Includes pension contributions of $53 million for fiscal 2013. The Company is unable to estimate the amount of pension contributions beyond fiscal year 2013. For more information concerning the Companys pension and other postretirement plans, see Note 17 in Item 8. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) At June 30, 2012, the Company estimates it will spend approximately $2.1 billion through calendar year 2015 to complete currently approved capital projects which are not included in the table above. The Company also has outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds of $644 million at June 30, 2012. In addition, the Company has entered into agreements, primarily debt guarantee agreements related to equity method investees, which could obligate the Company to make future payments. The Companys liability under these agreements arises only if the primary entity fails to perform its contractual obligation. The Company has collateral for a portion of these contingent obligations. At June 30, 2012, these contingent obligations totaled approximately $30 million. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements On March 27, 2012, the Company entered into an amendment of its accounts receivable securitization program (as amended, the Program) with certain commercial paper conduit purchasers and committed purchasers (collectively, the Purchasers). Under the Program, certain U.S. originated trade accounts receivable are sold to a wholly owned bankruptcy remote entity, ADM Receivables, LLC (ADM Receivables). ADM Receivables in turn transfers such purchased accounts receivable in their entirety to the Purchasers pursuant to a receivables purchase agreement. In exchange for the transfer of the accounts receivable, ADM Receivables receives a cash payment of up to $1.0 billion and an additional amount upon the collection of the accounts receivable (deferred consideration). ADM Receivables uses the cash proceeds from the transfer of receivables to the Purchasers and other consideration to finance the purchase of receivables from the Company and the ADM subsidiaries originating the receivables. The Company accounts for these transfers as sales. The Company has no retained interests in the transferred receivables, other than collection and administrative responsibilities and its right to the deferred consideration. At June 30, 2012, the Company did not record a servicing asset or liability related to its retained responsibility, based on its assessment of the servicing fee, market values for similar transactions and its cost of servicing the receivables sold. The Program terminates on June 28, 2013. As of June 30, 2012, the fair value of trade receivables transferred to the Purchasers under the Program and derecognized from the Companys consolidated balance sheet was $1.6 billion. In exchange for the transfer, the Company received cash of $1.0 billion and recorded a receivable for deferred consideration included in other current assets. Cash collections from customers on receivables sold were $8.9 billion for the four months ended June 30, 2012. Of this amount, $8.9 billion pertains to cash collections on the deferred consideration. Deferred consideration is paid to the Company in cash on behalf of the Purchasers as receivables are collected; however, as this is a revolving facility, cash collected from the Companys customers is reinvested by the Purchasers daily in new receivable purchases under the Program. The Companys risk of loss following the transfer of accounts receivable under the Program is limited to the deferred consideration outstanding, which is classified as other current assets and was $0.6 billion at June 30, 2012. The Company carries the deferred consideration at fair value determined by calculating the expected amount of cash to be received and is principally based on observable inputs (a Level 2 measurement under ASC 820) consisting mainly of the face amount of the receivables adjusted for anticipated credit losses and discounted at the appropriate market rate. Payment of deferred consideration is not subject to significant risks other than delinquencies and credit losses on accounts receivable transferred under the program which have historically been insignificant. Transfers of receivables under the Program during the year ended June 30, 2012 resulted in an expense for the loss on sale of $4 million which is classified as selling, general, and administrative expenses in the consolidated statements of earnings. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Critical Accounting Policies The process of preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the carrying values of the Companys assets and liabilities as well as the recognition of revenues and expenses. These estimates and judgments are based on the Companys historical experience and managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Certain of the Companys accounting policies are considered critical, as these policies are important to the depiction of the Companys financial statements and require significant or complex judgment by management. Management has discussed with the Companys Audit Committee the development, selection, disclosure, and application of these critical accounting policies. Following are the accounting policies management considers critical to the Companys financial statements. Fair Value Measurements Inventories and Derivatives Certain of the Companys assets and liabilities as of June 30, 2012 are valued at estimated fair values, including $6.8 billion of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, $3.1 billion of derivative assets, $3.0 billion of derivative liabilities, and $0.3 billion of inventory related payables. Derivative assets and liabilities include forward fixed price purchase and sale contracts for agricultural commodities, forward foreign exchange contracts, and over the counter instruments such as options contracts. The merchandisable agricultural commodities are freely traded, have quoted market prices, and may be sold without significant additional processing. Management estimates fair value for its commodity related assets and liabilities based on exchange quoted prices, adjusted for differences in local markets. The Companys fair value measurements are mainly based on observable market quotations without significant adjustments and are therefore reported as Level 1 or Level 2 within the fair value hierarchy. Level 3 fair value measurements represent fair value estimates where unobservable price components represent 10% or more of the total fair value price. For more information concerning amounts reported as Level 3, see Note 3 in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Changes in the market values of these inventories and contracts are recognized in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. If management used different methods or factors to estimate market value, amounts reported as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. Additionally, if market conditions change subsequent to year end, amounts reported in future periods as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. Derivatives Designated Hedging Activities The Company, from time to time, uses derivative contracts designated as cash flow hedges to fix the purchase price of anticipated volumes of commodities to be purchased and processed in a future month, to fix the purchase price of the Companys anticipated natural gas requirements for certain production facilities, and to fix the sales price of anticipated volumes of ethanol. These designated hedging programs principally relate to the Companys Corn Processing operating segment. The change in the market value of such derivative contracts has historically been, and is expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold and net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. If it is determined that the derivative instruments used are no longer effective at offsetting changes in the price of the hedged item, then the changes in the market value of these exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts would be recorded immediately in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. See Note 4 in Item 8 for additional information. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Investments in Affiliates The Company applies the equity method of accounting for investments over which the Company has the ability to exercise significant influence, including its 16.4% investment in Wilmar. These investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings and are adjusted, where appropriate, for amortizable basis differences between the investment balance and the underlying net assets of the investee. Generally, the minimum ownership threshold for asserting significant influence is 20% ownership of the investee. However, the Company considers all relevant factors in determining its ability to assert significant influence including but not limited to, ownership percentage, board membership, customer and vendor relationships, and other arrangements. If management used a different accounting method for these investments, then the amount of earnings from affiliates the Company recognizes may differ. Income Taxes The Company frequently faces challenges from U.S. and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company records reserves for estimates of potential additional tax owed by the Company. As an example, a subsidiary of the Company received tax assessments in the amount of $570 million consisting of tax, penalty, and interest (adjusted for interest and variation in currency exchange rates) from the Brazilian Federal Revenue Service challenging the deductibility of commodity hedging losses incurred by the Company for tax years 2004, 2006 and 2007. The Company evaluated its tax position regarding these hedging transactions and concluded, based in part upon advice from Brazilian legal counsel, that it was appropriate to recognize the tax benefits of these deductions (see Note 15 in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for additional information). Deferred tax assets represent items to be used as tax deductions or credits in future tax returns, and the related tax benefit has already been recognized in the Companys income statement. The realization of the Companys deferred tax assets is dependent upon future taxable income in specific tax jurisdictions, the timing and amount of which are uncertain. The Company evaluates all available positive and negative evidence including estimated future reversals of existing temporary differences, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies, and recent financial results. Valuation allowances related to these deferred tax assets have been established to the extent the realization of the tax benefit is not likely. To the extent the Company were to favorably resolve matters for which accruals have been established or be required to pay amounts in excess of the aforementioned reserves, the Companys effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be impacted. Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and the Companys share of the undistributed earnings of affiliated corporate joint venture companies accounted for on the equity method amounting to approximately $7.2 billion at June 30, 2012, are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Property, Plant, and Equipment and Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand, changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned factors may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and cash flows of the Companys assets in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its facilities. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment, technology, and companies related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. Assets are written down after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these assets, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. During 2012, 2011, and 2010, impairment charges were $367 million, $2 million, and $9 million, respectively (see Note 19 for additional information on charges taken in 2012). Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets Goodwill and intangible assets deemed to have indefinite lives are not amortized but are subject to annual impairment tests. The Company evaluates goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year or whenever there are indicators that the carrying value of the assets may not be fully recoverable. Definite lived intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives and are reviewed for impairment whenever there are indicators that the carrying value of the assets may not be fully recoverable. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its impairment tests, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Employee Benefit Plans The Company provides substantially all U.S. employees and employees at certain international subsidiaries with pension benefits. Eligible U.S. employees with five or more years of service prior to January 1, 2009 participate in a defined benefit pension plan. Eligible U.S. employees hired on or after January 1, 2009 (and eligible salaried employees with less than five years of service prior to January 1, 2009) participate in a cash balance pension formula. The Company provides eligible U.S. employees who retire under qualifying conditions with access to postretirement health care, at full cost to the retiree (certain employees are grandfathered into subsidized coverage). In order to measure the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans, management makes several estimates and assumptions, including interest rates used to discount certain liabilities, rates of return on assets set aside to fund these plans, rates of compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and anticipated future health care costs. These estimates and assumptions are based on the Companys historical experience combined with managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Management also uses third party actuaries to assist in measuring the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans. If management used different estimates and assumptions regarding these plans, the funded status of the plans could vary significantly, and the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. See Note 17 in Item 8 for additional information. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in: commodity market prices as they relate to the Companys net commodity position, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and prices of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to factors such as changes in weather conditions, crop disease, plantings, government programs and policies, competition, changes in global demand, changes in customer preferences and standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. The Company manages its exposure to adverse price movements of agricultural commodities used for, and produced in, its business operations, by entering into derivative and non derivative contracts which reduce the Companys overall short or long commodity position. Additionally, the Company uses exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the correlation between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contract defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company, from time to time, enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed designated hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold or net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. The Companys commodity position consists of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, related purchase and sales contracts, energy and freight contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts including contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements, net of sales. The fair value of the Companys commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing all of the commodity positions at quoted market prices for the period, where available, or utilizing a close proxy. The Company has established metrics to monitor the amount of market risk exposure, which consist of volumetric limits, and value at risk (VaR) limits. VaR measures the potential loss, at a 95% confidence level, that could be incurred over a one year period. Volumetric limits are monitored daily and VaR calculations and sensitivity analysis are monitored weekly. In addition to measuring the hypothetical loss resulting from an adverse two standard deviation move in market prices (assuming no correlations) over a one year period using VaR, sensitivity analysis is performed measuring the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in market prices. The highest, lowest, and average weekly position for each of the last two years together with the market risk from a hypothetical 10% adverse price change is as follows: 2012 2011 Long/(Short) Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest position $ 1,477 $ 148 $ 2,388 $ 239 Lowest position (383 ) (38 ) 368 37 Average position 546 55 1,644 164 The decline in fair value of the average position for 2012 compared to 2011 was principally the result of the decline in average quantities underlying the weekly commodity position. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) Currencies The Company has consolidated subsidiaries in over 75 countries. For the majority of the Companys subsidiaries located outside the United States, the local currency is the functional currency. To reduce the risks associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, the Company enters into currency exchange contracts to minimize its foreign currency position related to transactions denominated primarily in Euro, British pound, Canadian dollar, and Brazilian real currencies. These currencies represent the major functional or local currencies in which recurring business transactions occur. The Company does not use currency exchange contracts as hedges against amounts permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The currency exchange contracts used are forward contracts, swaps with banks, exchange traded futures contracts, and over the counter options. The changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $7.2 billion at June 30, 2012, and $8.2 billion at June 30, 2011. This decrease is due to the depreciation of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar partially offset by an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The potential loss in fair value, which would principally be recognized in Other Comprehensive Income, resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $722 million and $823 million for 2012 and 2011, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 50 basis points decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2012 2011 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 8,057 $ 9,108 Excess of fair value over carrying value 1,522 842 Market risk 422 333 The decrease in fair value of long term debt in 2012 resulted principally from the reclassification of $1.5 billion in floating rate notes to short term debt partially offset by decreased interest rates. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Operating profit by segment is as follows: 2011 2010 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing and Origination $ 925 $ 834 $ 91 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel, and Other 342 300 42 Cocoa and Other 240 126 114 Asia 183 291 (108 ) Total Oilseeds Processing 1,690 1,551 139 Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 330 538 (208 ) Bioproducts 749 200 549 Total Corn Processing 1,079 738 341 Agricultural Services Merchandising and Handling 807 562 245 Transportation 117 96 21 Milling and Other 399 344 55 Total Agricultural Services 1,323 1,002 321 Other Financial 39 46 (7 ) Total Other 39 46 (7 ) Total Segment Operating Profit 4,131 3,337 794 Corporate (see below) (1,116 ) (752 ) (364 ) Earnings Before Income Taxes $ 3,015 $ 2,585 $ 430 Corporate results are as follows: 2011 2010 Change (In millions) LIFO credit $ (368 ) $ 42 $ (410 ) Interest expense net (445 ) (381 ) (64 ) Unallocated corporate costs (326 ) (266 ) (60 ) Charges on early extinguishment of debt (8 ) (75 ) 67 Gains (losses) on interest rate swaps 30 (59 ) 89 Other 1 (13 ) 14 Total Corporate $ (1,116 ) $ (752 ) $ (364 ) Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Oilseeds Processing operating profit increased 9% to $1.7 billion. Crushing and Origination results increased $91 million to $925 million. Improved North American crushing results, particularly for cotton seed and canola, were partially offset by lower crushing margins in South America and Europe. Margins globally were enhanced by good positioning and by improved origination results. In South America, fertilizer results improved due to higher margins and volumes. Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel and Other results increased $42 million to $342 million due principally to higher packaged oils margins and improved North American and European biodiesel results. Cocoa and Other results increased $114 million to $240 million primarily due to the $71 million gain on the revaluation of the Companys equity interest in Golden Peanut and higher peanut profits as a result of the December 31, 2010 acquisition of the remaining 50% interest of Golden Peanut. Asia results decreased $108 million due principally to decreased earnings from the Companys equity investee, Wilmar. Corn Processing operating profit increased 46% to $1.1 billion, which includes favorable impacts from ownership positions, which were allocated to sweeteners and starches and bioproducts based on total grind. Sweeteners and Starches operating profit decreased $208 million to $330 million due to higher net corn costs partially offset by higher sales volumes. Sales volumes increased due to U.S. export shipments of sweeteners and improved U.S. demand for industrial starches. Bioproducts operating profit improved $549 million primarily due to higher ethanol sales volumes and higher average selling prices leading to increased ethanol and lysine margins. Bioproducts margins were also enhanced by favorable corn ownership positions. Bioproducts results included startup costs related to the Companys new plants of $94 million in 2011 compared to $107 million in the prior year. Agricultural Services operating profit increased 32% to $1.3 billion. Merchandising and Handling results increased due to higher corn and wheat sales volumes and higher margins. A large 2010 U.S. harvest combined with strong international demand resulted in higher U.S. export shipments. Merchandising and Handling results in 2011 included an insurance recovery of $67 million related to property damage and business interruption resulting from an October 2008 explosion at the Companys Destrehan, LA, export facility. International merchandising results were weaker in part due to positions impacted by unexpected shifts in crop supply caused by weather conditions and government actions in the Black Sea region. Transportation results increased $21 million to $117 million primarily due to higher barge freight rates and higher barge utilization levels, in part due to higher U.S. export volumes. Milling and Other results improved due principally to increased equity earnings from the Companys equity investee, Gruma which include a $78 million gain related to Grumas disposal of certain assets. Other financial operating profit decreased 15% to $39 million primarily due to higher captive insurance loss provisions principally related to a $67 million loss related to the Companys Destrehan, LA, export facility insurance claim. Corporate results decreased $364 million primarily due to the negative impact from changing LIFO inventory valuations and higher interest expense net. The effects of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory reserves resulted in charges of $368 million compared to credits of $42 million for the prior year. Corporate interest expense increased $64 million mostly due to lower capitalization of interest costs for construction projects in progress. Partially offsetting the higher LIFO and interest costs were $30 million of gains on interest rate swaps compared to prior year losses on interest rate swaps of $59 million. In addition, 2010 included charges of $75 million on early debt extinguishment compared to $8 million of similar charges in 2011. Liquidity and Capital Resources A Company objective is to have sufficient liquidity, balance sheet strength, and financial flexibility to fund the operating and capital requirements of a capital intensive agricultural commodity based business. The primary source of funds to finance the Companys operations and capital expenditures is cash generated by operations and lines of credit, including a commercial paper borrowing facility. In addition, the Company believes it has access to funds from public and private equity and debt capital markets in both U.S. and international markets. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Cash provided by operating activities was $2.9 billion for the year compared to cash used in operating activities of $2.3 billion last year. Working capital decreased $0.3 billion since the beginning of fiscal 2012 due principally to the $1.0 billion account receivable securitization program discussed below. In fiscal 2011 working capital increased $5.2 billion due principally to higher agricultural commodity prices. Cash used in investing activities was $1.1 billion for the year compared to a $1.7 billion use last year. Capital expenditures were $1.5 billion for the year compared to $1.2 billion last year. The Company spent approximately $0.2 billion on acquisitions in fiscal 2012 and 2011. Related to the sale of the majority interest in Hickory Point Bank, the Company reduced its holdings of marketable securities generating cash of $0.3 billion and divested cash of $0.1 billion as a result of the deconsolidation. In fiscal 2011, net purchases of marketable securities used $0.3 billion of cash. Cash used in financing activities was $1.1 billion for the year compared to cash provided by financing activities of $3.6 billion last year. In fiscal 2012, the Company returned nearly $1.0 billion to shareholders in the form of dividends and share repurchases, including the acquisition of 18.4 million of its common shares for $0.5 billion. In fiscal 2011 net borrowings increased primarily to fund higher working capital. Short term borrowings increased due principally to higher commercial paper borrowings, and long term borrowings increased primarily as a result of the issuance of $1.5 billion of 18 month floating rate notes in February 2011. In addition the Company issued 44 million shares of common stock and received $1.75 billion in fiscal 2011 under the forward stock purchase component of the Companys Equity Units (see Note 10 in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data). At June 30, 2012, the Company had $1.5 billion of cash, cash equivalents, and short term marketable securities and a current ratio, defined as current assets divided by current liabilities, of 1.8 to 1. Included in working capital is $7.8 billion of readily marketable commodity inventories. At June 30, 2012, the Companys capital resources included net worth of $18.2 billion and lines of credit totaling $6.5 billion, of which $4.4 billion was unused. The Companys ratio of long term debt to total capital (the sum of the Companys long term debt and shareholders equity) was 26% at June 30, 2012 and 30% at June 30, 2011. This ratio is a measure of the Companys long term indebtedness and is an indicator of financial flexibility. Of the Companys total lines of credit, $4.3 billion support a commercial paper borrowing facility, against which there were $1.3 billion of commercial paper outstanding at June 30, 2012. In August 2012, the Company added a $2.0 billion credit facility which will support commercial paper borrowings. On March 27, 2012, the Company entered into an amendment of its accounts receivable securitization program (as amended, the Program) with certain commercial paper conduit purchasers and committed purchasers (collectively, the Purchasers). The Program provides the Company with up to $1.0 billion in funding against accounts receivable transferred into the Program and expands the Companys access to liquidity through efficient use of its balance sheet assets. Under the Program, certain U.S. originated trade accounts receivable are sold to a wholly owned bankruptcy remote entity, ADM Receivables, LLC (ADM Receivables). ADM Receivables in turn transfers such purchased accounts receivable in their entirety to the Purchasers pursuant to a receivables purchase agreement. In exchange for the transfer of the accounts receivable, ADM Receivables receives a cash payment of up to $1.0 billion and an additional amount upon the collection of the accounts receivable (deferred consideration). ADM Receivables uses the cash proceeds from the transfer of receivables to the Purchasers and other consideration to finance the purchase of receivables from the Company and the ADM subsidiaries originating the receivables. The Company acts as master servicer, responsible for servicing and collecting the accounts receivable under the Program. The Program terminates on June 28, 2013 (see Note 20 for more information and disclosures on the Program). As of June 30, 2012, the fair value of trade receivables transferred to the Purchasers under the Program and derecognized from the Companys consolidated balance sheet was $1.6 billion. In exchange for the transfer, the Company received cash of $1.0 billion and recorded a receivable for deferred consideration included in other current assets. The Company has outstanding $1.4 billion principal amount of floating rate notes due on August 13, 2012. Interest on the notes accrues at a floating rate three month LIBOR reset quarterly plus 0.16% and is paid quarterly. As of June 30, 2012, the interest rate on the notes was 0.63%. In August 2012, the Company paid these notes with funds available from short term borrowings. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) The Company has outstanding $1.15 billion principal amount of convertible senior notes. As of June 30, 2012, none of the conditions permitting conversion of these notes had been satisfied. The Company has purchased call options and warrants intended to reduce the potential shareholder dilution upon future conversion of the notes. As of June 30, 2012, the market price of the Companys common stock was not greater than the exercise price of the purchased call options or warrants related to the convertible senior notes. The Company is currently experiencing generally higher prices for agricultural commodities as a result of tightening crop supplies, mostly due to weather impacts on current year U.S. corn and soybean crop production. Higher prices of commodities have historically correlated with increases in the Companys working capital requirements. The Company depends on access to credit markets, which can be impacted by its credit rating and factors outside of the Companys control, such as the European debt situation, to fund its working capital needs and capital expenditures. The Company expects capital expenditures to range from $0.5 billion to $0.6 billion for the upcoming 6 month period ending December 31, 2012. On November 5, 2009, the Companys Board of Directors approved a stock repurchase program authorizing the Company to repurchase up to 100,000,000 shares of the Companys common stock during the period commencing January 1, 2010 and ending December 31, 2014. The Company has acquired approximately 31.6 million shares under this program, resulting in remaining approval to acquire 68.4 million shares. The Companys credit facilities and certain debentures require the Company to comply with specified financial and non financial covenants including maintenance of minimum tangible net worth as well as limitations related to incurring liens, secured debt, and certain other financing arrangements. The Company is in compliance with these covenants as of June 30, 2012. Contractual Obligations In the normal course of business, the Company enters into contracts and commitments which obligate the Company to make payments in the future. The following table sets forth the Companys significant future obligations by time period. Purchases include commodity based contracts entered into in the normal course of business, which are further described in Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, energy related purchase contracts entered into in the normal course of business, and other purchase obligations related to the Companys normal business activities. The following table does not include unrecognized income tax benefits of $80 million as of June 30, 2012 as the Company is unable to reasonably estimate the timing of settlement. Where applicable, information included in the Companys consolidated financial statements and notes is cross referenced in this table. Payments Due by Period Contractual Item 8 Note Less than 1 3 3 5 More than Obligations Reference Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years (In millions) Purchases Inventories $ 17,724 $ 17,307 $ 211 $ 130 $ 76 Energy 866 390 233 87 156 Other 242 145 86 10 1 Total purchases 18,832 17,842 530 227 233 Short term debt 2,108 2,108 Long term debt Note 10 8,212 1,677 1,114 320 5,101 Estimated interest payments 6,688 374 650 636 5,028 Operating leases Note 16 1,135 244 365 263 263 Estimated pension and other postretirement plan contributions (1) Note 17 188 64 23 25 76 Total $ 37,163 $ 22,309 $ 2,682 $ 1,471 $ 10,701 (1) Includes pension contributions of $53 million for fiscal 2013. The Company is unable to estimate the amount of pension contributions beyond fiscal year 2013. For more information concerning the Companys pension and other postretirement plans, see Note 17 in Item 8. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) At June 30, 2012, the Company estimates it will spend approximately $2.1 billion through calendar year 2015 to complete currently approved capital projects which are not included in the table above. The Company also has outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds of $644 million at June 30, 2012. In addition, the Company has entered into agreements, primarily debt guarantee agreements related to equity method investees, which could obligate the Company to make future payments. The Companys liability under these agreements arises only if the primary entity fails to perform its contractual obligation. The Company has collateral for a portion of these contingent obligations. At June 30, 2012, these contingent obligations totaled approximately $30 million. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements On March 27, 2012, the Company entered into an amendment of its accounts receivable securitization program (as amended, the Program) with certain commercial paper conduit purchasers and committed purchasers (collectively, the Purchasers). Under the Program, certain U.S. originated trade accounts receivable are sold to a wholly owned bankruptcy remote entity, ADM Receivables, LLC (ADM Receivables). ADM Receivables in turn transfers such purchased accounts receivable in their entirety to the Purchasers pursuant to a receivables purchase agreement. In exchange for the transfer of the accounts receivable, ADM Receivables receives a cash payment of up to $1.0 billion and an additional amount upon the collection of the accounts receivable (deferred consideration). ADM Receivables uses the cash proceeds from the transfer of receivables to the Purchasers and other consideration to finance the purchase of receivables from the Company and the ADM subsidiaries originating the receivables. The Company accounts for these transfers as sales. The Company has no retained interests in the transferred receivables, other than collection and administrative responsibilities and its right to the deferred consideration. At June 30, 2012, the Company did not record a servicing asset or liability related to its retained responsibility, based on its assessment of the servicing fee, market values for similar transactions and its cost of servicing the receivables sold. The Program terminates on June 28, 2013. As of June 30, 2012, the fair value of trade receivables transferred to the Purchasers under the Program and derecognized from the Companys consolidated balance sheet was $1.6 billion. In exchange for the transfer, the Company received cash of $1.0 billion and recorded a receivable for deferred consideration included in other current assets. Cash collections from customers on receivables sold were $8.9 billion for the four months ended June 30, 2012. Of this amount, $8.9 billion pertains to cash collections on the deferred consideration. Deferred consideration is paid to the Company in cash on behalf of the Purchasers as receivables are collected; however, as this is a revolving facility, cash collected from the Companys customers is reinvested by the Purchasers daily in new receivable purchases under the Program. The Companys risk of loss following the transfer of accounts receivable under the Program is limited to the deferred consideration outstanding, which is classified as other current assets and was $0.6 billion at June 30, 2012. The Company carries the deferred consideration at fair value determined by calculating the expected amount of cash to be received and is principally based on observable inputs (a Level 2 measurement under ASC 820) consisting mainly of the face amount of the receivables adjusted for anticipated credit losses and discounted at the appropriate market rate. Payment of deferred consideration is not subject to significant risks other than delinquencies and credit losses on accounts receivable transferred under the program which have historically been insignificant. Transfers of receivables under the Program during the year ended June 30, 2012 resulted in an expense for the loss on sale of $4 million which is classified as selling, general, and administrative expenses in the consolidated statements of earnings. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Critical Accounting Policies The process of preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the carrying values of the Companys assets and liabilities as well as the recognition of revenues and expenses. These estimates and judgments are based on the Companys historical experience and managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Certain of the Companys accounting policies are considered critical, as these policies are important to the depiction of the Companys financial statements and require significant or complex judgment by management. Management has discussed with the Companys Audit Committee the development, selection, disclosure, and application of these critical accounting policies. Following are the accounting policies management considers critical to the Companys financial statements. Fair Value Measurements Inventories and Derivatives Certain of the Companys assets and liabilities as of June 30, 2012 are valued at estimated fair values, including $6.8 billion of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, $3.1 billion of derivative assets, $3.0 billion of derivative liabilities, and $0.3 billion of inventory related payables. Derivative assets and liabilities include forward fixed price purchase and sale contracts for agricultural commodities, forward foreign exchange contracts, and over the counter instruments such as options contracts. The merchandisable agricultural commodities are freely traded, have quoted market prices, and may be sold without significant additional processing. Management estimates fair value for its commodity related assets and liabilities based on exchange quoted prices, adjusted for differences in local markets. The Companys fair value measurements are mainly based on observable market quotations without significant adjustments and are therefore reported as Level 1 or Level 2 within the fair value hierarchy. Level 3 fair value measurements represent fair value estimates where unobservable price components represent 10% or more of the total fair value price. For more information concerning amounts reported as Level 3, see Note 3 in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Changes in the market values of these inventories and contracts are recognized in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. If management used different methods or factors to estimate market value, amounts reported as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. Additionally, if market conditions change subsequent to year end, amounts reported in future periods as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. Derivatives Designated Hedging Activities The Company, from time to time, uses derivative contracts designated as cash flow hedges to fix the purchase price of anticipated volumes of commodities to be purchased and processed in a future month, to fix the purchase price of the Companys anticipated natural gas requirements for certain production facilities, and to fix the sales price of anticipated volumes of ethanol. These designated hedging programs principally relate to the Companys Corn Processing operating segment. The change in the market value of such derivative contracts has historically been, and is expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold and net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. If it is determined that the derivative instruments used are no longer effective at offsetting changes in the price of the hedged item, then the changes in the market value of these exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts would be recorded immediately in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. See Note 4 in Item 8 for additional information. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Investments in Affiliates The Company applies the equity method of accounting for investments over which the Company has the ability to exercise significant influence, including its 16.4% investment in Wilmar. These investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings and are adjusted, where appropriate, for amortizable basis differences between the investment balance and the underlying net assets of the investee. Generally, the minimum ownership threshold for asserting significant influence is 20% ownership of the investee. However, the Company considers all relevant factors in determining its ability to assert significant influence including but not limited to, ownership percentage, board membership, customer and vendor relationships, and other arrangements. If management used a different accounting method for these investments, then the amount of earnings from affiliates the Company recognizes may differ. Income Taxes The Company frequently faces challenges from U.S. and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company records reserves for estimates of potential additional tax owed by the Company. As an example, a subsidiary of the Company received tax assessments in the amount of $570 million consisting of tax, penalty, and interest (adjusted for interest and variation in currency exchange rates) from the Brazilian Federal Revenue Service challenging the deductibility of commodity hedging losses incurred by the Company for tax years 2004, 2006 and 2007. The Company evaluated its tax position regarding these hedging transactions and concluded, based in part upon advice from Brazilian legal counsel, that it was appropriate to recognize the tax benefits of these deductions (see Note 15 in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for additional information). Deferred tax assets represent items to be used as tax deductions or credits in future tax returns, and the related tax benefit has already been recognized in the Companys income statement. The realization of the Companys deferred tax assets is dependent upon future taxable income in specific tax jurisdictions, the timing and amount of which are uncertain. The Company evaluates all available positive and negative evidence including estimated future reversals of existing temporary differences, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies, and recent financial results. Valuation allowances related to these deferred tax assets have been established to the extent the realization of the tax benefit is not likely. To the extent the Company were to favorably resolve matters for which accruals have been established or be required to pay amounts in excess of the aforementioned reserves, the Companys effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be impacted. Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and the Companys share of the undistributed earnings of affiliated corporate joint venture companies accounted for on the equity method amounting to approximately $7.2 billion at June 30, 2012, are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Property, Plant, and Equipment and Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand, changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned factors may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and cash flows of the Companys assets in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its facilities. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment, technology, and companies related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. Assets are written down after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these assets, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. During 2012, 2011, and 2010, impairment charges were $367 million, $2 million, and $9 million, respectively (see Note 19 for additional information on charges taken in 2012). Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets Goodwill and intangible assets deemed to have indefinite lives are not amortized but are subject to annual impairment tests. The Company evaluates goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year or whenever there are indicators that the carrying value of the assets may not be fully recoverable. Definite lived intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives and are reviewed for impairment whenever there are indicators that the carrying value of the assets may not be fully recoverable. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its impairment tests, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Employee Benefit Plans The Company provides substantially all U.S. employees and employees at certain international subsidiaries with pension benefits. Eligible U.S. employees with five or more years of service prior to January 1, 2009 participate in a defined benefit pension plan. Eligible U.S. employees hired on or after January 1, 2009 (and eligible salaried employees with less than five years of service prior to January 1, 2009) participate in a cash balance pension formula. The Company provides eligible U.S. employees who retire under qualifying conditions with access to postretirement health care, at full cost to the retiree (certain employees are grandfathered into subsidized coverage). In order to measure the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans, management makes several estimates and assumptions, including interest rates used to discount certain liabilities, rates of return on assets set aside to fund these plans, rates of compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and anticipated future health care costs. These estimates and assumptions are based on the Companys historical experience combined with managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Management also uses third party actuaries to assist in measuring the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans. If management used different estimates and assumptions regarding these plans, the funded status of the plans could vary significantly, and the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. See Note 17 in Item 8 for additional information. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in: commodity market prices as they relate to the Companys net commodity position, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and prices of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to factors such as changes in weather conditions, crop disease, plantings, government programs and policies, competition, changes in global demand, changes in customer preferences and standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. The Company manages its exposure to adverse price movements of agricultural commodities used for, and produced in, its business operations, by entering into derivative and non derivative contracts which reduce the Companys overall short or long commodity position. Additionally, the Company uses exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the correlation between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contract defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company, from time to time, enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed designated hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold or net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. The Companys commodity position consists of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, related purchase and sales contracts, energy and freight contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts including contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements, net of sales. The fair value of the Companys commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing all of the commodity positions at quoted market prices for the period, where available, or utilizing a close proxy. The Company has established metrics to monitor the amount of market risk exposure, which consist of volumetric limits, and value at risk (VaR) limits. VaR measures the potential loss, at a 95% confidence level, that could be incurred over a one year period. Volumetric limits are monitored daily and VaR calculations and sensitivity analysis are monitored weekly. In addition to measuring the hypothetical loss resulting from an adverse two standard deviation move in market prices (assuming no correlations) over a one year period using VaR, sensitivity analysis is performed measuring the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in market prices. The highest, lowest, and average weekly position for each of the last two years together with the market risk from a hypothetical 10% adverse price change is as follows: 2012 2011 Long/(Short) Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest position $ 1,477 $ 148 $ 2,388 $ 239 Lowest position (383 ) (38 ) 368 37 Average position 546 55 1,644 164 The decline in fair value of the average position for 2012 compared to 2011 was principally the result of the decline in average quantities underlying the weekly commodity position. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) Currencies The Company has consolidated subsidiaries in over 75 countries. For the majority of the Companys subsidiaries located outside the United States, the local currency is the functional currency. To reduce the risks associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, the Company enters into currency exchange contracts to minimize its foreign currency position related to transactions denominated primarily in Euro, British pound, Canadian dollar, and Brazilian real currencies. These currencies represent the major functional or local currencies in which recurring business transactions occur. The Company does not use currency exchange contracts as hedges against amounts permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The currency exchange contracts used are forward contracts, swaps with banks, exchange traded futures contracts, and over the counter options. The changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $7.2 billion at June 30, 2012, and $8.2 billion at June 30, 2011. This decrease is due to the depreciation of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar partially offset by an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The potential loss in fair value, which would principally be recognized in Other Comprehensive Income, resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $722 million and $823 million for 2012 and 2011, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 50 basis points decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2012 2011 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 8,057 $ 9,108 Excess of fair value over carrying value 1,522 842 Market risk 422 333 The decrease in fair value of long term debt in 2012 resulted principally from the reclassification of $1.5 billion in floating rate notes to short term debt partially offset by decreased interest rates. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Oilseeds Processing operating profit increased 9% to $1.7 billion. Crushing and Origination results increased $91 million to $925 million. Improved North American crushing results, particularly for cotton seed and canola, were partially offset by lower crushing margins in South America and Europe. Margins globally were enhanced by good positioning and by improved origination results. In South America, fertilizer results improved due to higher margins and volumes. Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel and Other results increased $42 million to $342 million due principally to higher packaged oils margins and improved North American and European biodiesel results. Cocoa and Other results increased $114 million to $240 million primarily due to the $71 million gain on the revaluation of the Companys equity interest in Golden Peanut and higher peanut profits as a result of the December 31, 2010 acquisition of the remaining 50% interest of Golden Peanut. Asia results decreased $108 million due principally to decreased earnings from the Companys equity investee, Wilmar. Corn Processing operating profit increased 46% to $1.1 billion, which includes favorable impacts from ownership positions, which were allocated to sweeteners and starches and bioproducts based on total grind. Sweeteners and Starches operating profit decreased $208 million to $330 million due to higher net corn costs partially offset by higher sales volumes. Sales volumes increased due to U.S. export shipments of sweeteners and improved U.S. demand for industrial starches. Bioproducts operating profit improved $549 million primarily due to higher ethanol sales volumes and higher average selling prices leading to increased ethanol and lysine margins. Bioproducts margins were also enhanced by favorable corn ownership positions. Bioproducts results included startup costs related to the Companys new plants of $94 million in 2011 compared to $107 million in the prior year. Agricultural Services operating profit increased 32% to $1.3 billion. Merchandising and Handling results increased due to higher corn and wheat sales volumes and higher margins. A large 2010 U.S. harvest combined with strong international demand resulted in higher U.S. export shipments. Merchandising and Handling results in 2011 included an insurance recovery of $67 million related to property damage and business interruption resulting from an October 2008 explosion at the Companys Destrehan, LA, export facility. International merchandising results were weaker in part due to positions impacted by unexpected shifts in crop supply caused by weather conditions and government actions in the Black Sea region. Transportation results increased $21 million to $117 million primarily due to higher barge freight rates and higher barge utilization levels, in part due to higher U.S. export volumes. Milling and Other results improved due principally to increased equity earnings from the Companys equity investee, Gruma which include a $78 million gain related to Grumas disposal of certain assets. Other financial operating profit decreased 15% to $39 million primarily due to higher captive insurance loss provisions principally related to a $67 million loss related to the Companys Destrehan, LA, export facility insurance claim. Corporate results decreased $364 million primarily due to the negative impact from changing LIFO inventory valuations and higher interest expense net. The effects of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory reserves resulted in charges of $368 million compared to credits of $42 million for the prior year. Corporate interest expense increased $64 million mostly due to lower capitalization of interest costs for construction projects in progress. Partially offsetting the higher LIFO and interest costs were $30 million of gains on interest rate swaps compared to prior year losses on interest rate swaps of $59 million. In addition, 2010 included charges of $75 million on early debt extinguishment compared to $8 million of similar charges in 2011. Liquidity and Capital Resources A Company objective is to have sufficient liquidity, balance sheet strength, and financial flexibility to fund the operating and capital requirements of a capital intensive agricultural commodity based business. The primary source of funds to finance the Companys operations and capital expenditures is cash generated by operations and lines of credit, including a commercial paper borrowing facility. In addition, the Company believes it has access to funds from public and private equity and debt capital markets in both U.S. and international markets. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Cash provided by operating activities was $2.9 billion for the year compared to cash used in operating activities of $2.3 billion last year. Working capital decreased $0.3 billion since the beginning of fiscal 2012 due principally to the $1.0 billion account receivable securitization program discussed below. In fiscal 2011 working capital increased $5.2 billion due principally to higher agricultural commodity prices. Cash used in investing activities was $1.1 billion for the year compared to a $1.7 billion use last year. Capital expenditures were $1.5 billion for the year compared to $1.2 billion last year. The Company spent approximately $0.2 billion on acquisitions in fiscal 2012 and 2011. Related to the sale of the majority interest in Hickory Point Bank, the Company reduced its holdings of marketable securities generating cash of $0.3 billion and divested cash of $0.1 billion as a result of the deconsolidation. In fiscal 2011, net purchases of marketable securities used $0.3 billion of cash. Cash used in financing activities was $1.1 billion for the year compared to cash provided by financing activities of $3.6 billion last year. In fiscal 2012, the Company returned nearly $1.0 billion to shareholders in the form of dividends and share repurchases, including the acquisition of 18.4 million of its common shares for $0.5 billion. In fiscal 2011 net borrowings increased primarily to fund higher working capital. Short term borrowings increased due principally to higher commercial paper borrowings, and long term borrowings increased primarily as a result of the issuance of $1.5 billion of 18 month floating rate notes in February 2011. In addition the Company issued 44 million shares of common stock and received $1.75 billion in fiscal 2011 under the forward stock purchase component of the Companys Equity Units (see Note 10 in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data). At June 30, 2012, the Company had $1.5 billion of cash, cash equivalents, and short term marketable securities and a current ratio, defined as current assets divided by current liabilities, of 1.8 to 1. Included in working capital is $7.8 billion of readily marketable commodity inventories. At June 30, 2012, the Companys capital resources included net worth of $18.2 billion and lines of credit totaling $6.5 billion, of which $4.4 billion was unused. The Companys ratio of long term debt to total capital (the sum of the Companys long term debt and shareholders equity) was 26% at June 30, 2012 and 30% at June 30, 2011. This ratio is a measure of the Companys long term indebtedness and is an indicator of financial flexibility. Of the Companys total lines of credit, $4.3 billion support a commercial paper borrowing facility, against which there were $1.3 billion of commercial paper outstanding at June 30, 2012. In August 2012, the Company added a $2.0 billion credit facility which will support commercial paper borrowings. On March 27, 2012, the Company entered into an amendment of its accounts receivable securitization program (as amended, the Program) with certain commercial paper conduit purchasers and committed purchasers (collectively, the Purchasers). The Program provides the Company with up to $1.0 billion in funding against accounts receivable transferred into the Program and expands the Companys access to liquidity through efficient use of its balance sheet assets. Under the Program, certain U.S. originated trade accounts receivable are sold to a wholly owned bankruptcy remote entity, ADM Receivables, LLC (ADM Receivables). ADM Receivables in turn transfers such purchased accounts receivable in their entirety to the Purchasers pursuant to a receivables purchase agreement. In exchange for the transfer of the accounts receivable, ADM Receivables receives a cash payment of up to $1.0 billion and an additional amount upon the collection of the accounts receivable (deferred consideration). ADM Receivables uses the cash proceeds from the transfer of receivables to the Purchasers and other consideration to finance the purchase of receivables from the Company and the ADM subsidiaries originating the receivables. The Company acts as master servicer, responsible for servicing and collecting the accounts receivable under the Program. The Program terminates on June 28, 2013 (see Note 20 for more information and disclosures on the Program). As of June 30, 2012, the fair value of trade receivables transferred to the Purchasers under the Program and derecognized from the Companys consolidated balance sheet was $1.6 billion. In exchange for the transfer, the Company received cash of $1.0 billion and recorded a receivable for deferred consideration included in other current assets. The Company has outstanding $1.4 billion principal amount of floating rate notes due on August 13, 2012. Interest on the notes accrues at a floating rate three month LIBOR reset quarterly plus 0.16% and is paid quarterly. As of June 30, 2012, the interest rate on the notes was 0.63%. In August 2012, the Company paid these notes with funds available from short term borrowings. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) The Company has outstanding $1.15 billion principal amount of convertible senior notes. As of June 30, 2012, none of the conditions permitting conversion of these notes had been satisfied. The Company has purchased call options and warrants intended to reduce the potential shareholder dilution upon future conversion of the notes. As of June 30, 2012, the market price of the Companys common stock was not greater than the exercise price of the purchased call options or warrants related to the convertible senior notes. The Company is currently experiencing generally higher prices for agricultural commodities as a result of tightening crop supplies, mostly due to weather impacts on current year U.S. corn and soybean crop production. Higher prices of commodities have historically correlated with increases in the Companys working capital requirements. The Company depends on access to credit markets, which can be impacted by its credit rating and factors outside of the Companys control, such as the European debt situation, to fund its working capital needs and capital expenditures. The Company expects capital expenditures to range from $0.5 billion to $0.6 billion for the upcoming 6 month period ending December 31, 2012. On November 5, 2009, the Companys Board of Directors approved a stock repurchase program authorizing the Company to repurchase up to 100,000,000 shares of the Companys common stock during the period commencing January 1, 2010 and ending December 31, 2014. The Company has acquired approximately 31.6 million shares under this program, resulting in remaining approval to acquire 68.4 million shares. The Companys credit facilities and certain debentures require the Company to comply with specified financial and non financial covenants including maintenance of minimum tangible net worth as well as limitations related to incurring liens, secured debt, and certain other financing arrangements. The Company is in compliance with these covenants as of June 30, 2012. Contractual Obligations In the normal course of business, the Company enters into contracts and commitments which obligate the Company to make payments in the future. The following table sets forth the Companys significant future obligations by time period. Purchases include commodity based contracts entered into in the normal course of business, which are further described in Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, energy related purchase contracts entered into in the normal course of business, and other purchase obligations related to the Companys normal business activities. The following table does not include unrecognized income tax benefits of $80 million as of June 30, 2012 as the Company is unable to reasonably estimate the timing of settlement. Where applicable, information included in the Companys consolidated financial statements and notes is cross referenced in this table. Payments Due by Period Contractual Item 8 Note Less than 1 3 3 5 More than Obligations Reference Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years (In millions) Purchases Inventories $ 17,724 $ 17,307 $ 211 $ 130 $ 76 Energy 866 390 233 87 156 Other 242 145 86 10 1 Total purchases 18,832 17,842 530 227 233 Short term debt 2,108 2,108 Long term debt Note 10 8,212 1,677 1,114 320 5,101 Estimated interest payments 6,688 374 650 636 5,028 Operating leases Note 16 1,135 244 365 263 263 Estimated pension and other postretirement plan contributions (1) Note 17 188 64 23 25 76 Total $ 37,163 $ 22,309 $ 2,682 $ 1,471 $ 10,701 (1) Includes pension contributions of $53 million for fiscal 2013. The Company is unable to estimate the amount of pension contributions beyond fiscal year 2013. For more information concerning the Companys pension and other postretirement plans, see Note 17 in Item 8. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) At June 30, 2012, the Company estimates it will spend approximately $2.1 billion through calendar year 2015 to complete currently approved capital projects which are not included in the table above. The Company also has outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds of $644 million at June 30, 2012. In addition, the Company has entered into agreements, primarily debt guarantee agreements related to equity method investees, which could obligate the Company to make future payments. The Companys liability under these agreements arises only if the primary entity fails to perform its contractual obligation. The Company has collateral for a portion of these contingent obligations. At June 30, 2012, these contingent obligations totaled approximately $30 million. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements On March 27, 2012, the Company entered into an amendment of its accounts receivable securitization program (as amended, the Program) with certain commercial paper conduit purchasers and committed purchasers (collectively, the Purchasers). Under the Program, certain U.S. originated trade accounts receivable are sold to a wholly owned bankruptcy remote entity, ADM Receivables, LLC (ADM Receivables). ADM Receivables in turn transfers such purchased accounts receivable in their entirety to the Purchasers pursuant to a receivables purchase agreement. In exchange for the transfer of the accounts receivable, ADM Receivables receives a cash payment of up to $1.0 billion and an additional amount upon the collection of the accounts receivable (deferred consideration). ADM Receivables uses the cash proceeds from the transfer of receivables to the Purchasers and other consideration to finance the purchase of receivables from the Company and the ADM subsidiaries originating the receivables. The Company accounts for these transfers as sales. The Company has no retained interests in the transferred receivables, other than collection and administrative responsibilities and its right to the deferred consideration. At June 30, 2012, the Company did not record a servicing asset or liability related to its retained responsibility, based on its assessment of the servicing fee, market values for similar transactions and its cost of servicing the receivables sold. The Program terminates on June 28, 2013. As of June 30, 2012, the fair value of trade receivables transferred to the Purchasers under the Program and derecognized from the Companys consolidated balance sheet was $1.6 billion. In exchange for the transfer, the Company received cash of $1.0 billion and recorded a receivable for deferred consideration included in other current assets. Cash collections from customers on receivables sold were $8.9 billion for the four months ended June 30, 2012. Of this amount, $8.9 billion pertains to cash collections on the deferred consideration. Deferred consideration is paid to the Company in cash on behalf of the Purchasers as receivables are collected; however, as this is a revolving facility, cash collected from the Companys customers is reinvested by the Purchasers daily in new receivable purchases under the Program. The Companys risk of loss following the transfer of accounts receivable under the Program is limited to the deferred consideration outstanding, which is classified as other current assets and was $0.6 billion at June 30, 2012. The Company carries the deferred consideration at fair value determined by calculating the expected amount of cash to be received and is principally based on observable inputs (a Level 2 measurement under ASC 820) consisting mainly of the face amount of the receivables adjusted for anticipated credit losses and discounted at the appropriate market rate. Payment of deferred consideration is not subject to significant risks other than delinquencies and credit losses on accounts receivable transferred under the program which have historically been insignificant. Transfers of receivables under the Program during the year ended June 30, 2012 resulted in an expense for the loss on sale of $4 million which is classified as selling, general, and administrative expenses in the consolidated statements of earnings. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Critical Accounting Policies The process of preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the carrying values of the Companys assets and liabilities as well as the recognition of revenues and expenses. These estimates and judgments are based on the Companys historical experience and managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Certain of the Companys accounting policies are considered critical, as these policies are important to the depiction of the Companys financial statements and require significant or complex judgment by management. Management has discussed with the Companys Audit Committee the development, selection, disclosure, and application of these critical accounting policies. Following are the accounting policies management considers critical to the Companys financial statements. Fair Value Measurements Inventories and Derivatives Certain of the Companys assets and liabilities as of June 30, 2012 are valued at estimated fair values, including $6.8 billion of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, $3.1 billion of derivative assets, $3.0 billion of derivative liabilities, and $0.3 billion of inventory related payables. Derivative assets and liabilities include forward fixed price purchase and sale contracts for agricultural commodities, forward foreign exchange contracts, and over the counter instruments such as options contracts. The merchandisable agricultural commodities are freely traded, have quoted market prices, and may be sold without significant additional processing. Management estimates fair value for its commodity related assets and liabilities based on exchange quoted prices, adjusted for differences in local markets. The Companys fair value measurements are mainly based on observable market quotations without significant adjustments and are therefore reported as Level 1 or Level 2 within the fair value hierarchy. Level 3 fair value measurements represent fair value estimates where unobservable price components represent 10% or more of the total fair value price. For more information concerning amounts reported as Level 3, see Note 3 in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Changes in the market values of these inventories and contracts are recognized in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. If management used different methods or factors to estimate market value, amounts reported as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. Additionally, if market conditions change subsequent to year end, amounts reported in future periods as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. Derivatives Designated Hedging Activities The Company, from time to time, uses derivative contracts designated as cash flow hedges to fix the purchase price of anticipated volumes of commodities to be purchased and processed in a future month, to fix the purchase price of the Companys anticipated natural gas requirements for certain production facilities, and to fix the sales price of anticipated volumes of ethanol. These designated hedging programs principally relate to the Companys Corn Processing operating segment. The change in the market value of such derivative contracts has historically been, and is expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold and net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. If it is determined that the derivative instruments used are no longer effective at offsetting changes in the price of the hedged item, then the changes in the market value of these exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts would be recorded immediately in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. See Note 4 in Item 8 for additional information. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Investments in Affiliates The Company applies the equity method of accounting for investments over which the Company has the ability to exercise significant influence, including its 16.4% investment in Wilmar. These investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings and are adjusted, where appropriate, for amortizable basis differences between the investment balance and the underlying net assets of the investee. Generally, the minimum ownership threshold for asserting significant influence is 20% ownership of the investee. However, the Company considers all relevant factors in determining its ability to assert significant influence including but not limited to, ownership percentage, board membership, customer and vendor relationships, and other arrangements. If management used a different accounting method for these investments, then the amount of earnings from affiliates the Company recognizes may differ. Income Taxes The Company frequently faces challenges from U.S. and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company records reserves for estimates of potential additional tax owed by the Company. As an example, a subsidiary of the Company received tax assessments in the amount of $570 million consisting of tax, penalty, and interest (adjusted for interest and variation in currency exchange rates) from the Brazilian Federal Revenue Service challenging the deductibility of commodity hedging losses incurred by the Company for tax years 2004, 2006 and 2007. The Company evaluated its tax position regarding these hedging transactions and concluded, based in part upon advice from Brazilian legal counsel, that it was appropriate to recognize the tax benefits of these deductions (see Note 15 in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for additional information). Deferred tax assets represent items to be used as tax deductions or credits in future tax returns, and the related tax benefit has already been recognized in the Companys income statement. The realization of the Companys deferred tax assets is dependent upon future taxable income in specific tax jurisdictions, the timing and amount of which are uncertain. The Company evaluates all available positive and negative evidence including estimated future reversals of existing temporary differences, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies, and recent financial results. Valuation allowances related to these deferred tax assets have been established to the extent the realization of the tax benefit is not likely. To the extent the Company were to favorably resolve matters for which accruals have been established or be required to pay amounts in excess of the aforementioned reserves, the Companys effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be impacted. Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and the Companys share of the undistributed earnings of affiliated corporate joint venture companies accounted for on the equity method amounting to approximately $7.2 billion at June 30, 2012, are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Property, Plant, and Equipment and Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand, changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned factors may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and cash flows of the Companys assets in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its facilities. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment, technology, and companies related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. Assets are written down after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these assets, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. During 2012, 2011, and 2010, impairment charges were $367 million, $2 million, and $9 million, respectively (see Note 19 for additional information on charges taken in 2012). Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets Goodwill and intangible assets deemed to have indefinite lives are not amortized but are subject to annual impairment tests. The Company evaluates goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year or whenever there are indicators that the carrying value of the assets may not be fully recoverable. Definite lived intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives and are reviewed for impairment whenever there are indicators that the carrying value of the assets may not be fully recoverable. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its impairment tests, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Employee Benefit Plans The Company provides substantially all U.S. employees and employees at certain international subsidiaries with pension benefits. Eligible U.S. employees with five or more years of service prior to January 1, 2009 participate in a defined benefit pension plan. Eligible U.S. employees hired on or after January 1, 2009 (and eligible salaried employees with less than five years of service prior to January 1, 2009) participate in a cash balance pension formula. The Company provides eligible U.S. employees who retire under qualifying conditions with access to postretirement health care, at full cost to the retiree (certain employees are grandfathered into subsidized coverage). In order to measure the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans, management makes several estimates and assumptions, including interest rates used to discount certain liabilities, rates of return on assets set aside to fund these plans, rates of compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and anticipated future health care costs. These estimates and assumptions are based on the Companys historical experience combined with managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Management also uses third party actuaries to assist in measuring the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans. If management used different estimates and assumptions regarding these plans, the funded status of the plans could vary significantly, and the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. See Note 17 in Item 8 for additional information. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in: commodity market prices as they relate to the Companys net commodity position, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and prices of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to factors such as changes in weather conditions, crop disease, plantings, government programs and policies, competition, changes in global demand, changes in customer preferences and standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. The Company manages its exposure to adverse price movements of agricultural commodities used for, and produced in, its business operations, by entering into derivative and non derivative contracts which reduce the Companys overall short or long commodity position. Additionally, the Company uses exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the correlation between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contract defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company, from time to time, enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed designated hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold or net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. The Companys commodity position consists of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, related purchase and sales contracts, energy and freight contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts including contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements, net of sales. The fair value of the Companys commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing all of the commodity positions at quoted market prices for the period, where available, or utilizing a close proxy. The Company has established metrics to monitor the amount of market risk exposure, which consist of volumetric limits, and value at risk (VaR) limits. VaR measures the potential loss, at a 95% confidence level, that could be incurred over a one year period. Volumetric limits are monitored daily and VaR calculations and sensitivity analysis are monitored weekly. In addition to measuring the hypothetical loss resulting from an adverse two standard deviation move in market prices (assuming no correlations) over a one year period using VaR, sensitivity analysis is performed measuring the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in market prices. The highest, lowest, and average weekly position for each of the last two years together with the market risk from a hypothetical 10% adverse price change is as follows: 2012 2011 Long/(Short) Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest position $ 1,477 $ 148 $ 2,388 $ 239 Lowest position (383 ) (38 ) 368 37 Average position 546 55 1,644 164 The decline in fair value of the average position for 2012 compared to 2011 was principally the result of the decline in average quantities underlying the weekly commodity position. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) Currencies The Company has consolidated subsidiaries in over 75 countries. For the majority of the Companys subsidiaries located outside the United States, the local currency is the functional currency. To reduce the risks associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, the Company enters into currency exchange contracts to minimize its foreign currency position related to transactions denominated primarily in Euro, British pound, Canadian dollar, and Brazilian real currencies. These currencies represent the major functional or local currencies in which recurring business transactions occur. The Company does not use currency exchange contracts as hedges against amounts permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The currency exchange contracts used are forward contracts, swaps with banks, exchange traded futures contracts, and over the counter options. The changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $7.2 billion at June 30, 2012, and $8.2 billion at June 30, 2011. This decrease is due to the depreciation of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar partially offset by an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The potential loss in fair value, which would principally be recognized in Other Comprehensive Income, resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $722 million and $823 million for 2012 and 2011, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 50 basis points decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2012 2011 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 8,057 $ 9,108 Excess of fair value over carrying value 1,522 842 Market risk 422 333 The decrease in fair value of long term debt in 2012 resulted principally from the reclassification of $1.5 billion in floating rate notes to short term debt partially offset by decreased interest rates. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Cash provided by operating activities was $2.9 billion for the year compared to cash used in operating activities of $2.3 billion last year. Working capital decreased $0.3 billion since the beginning of fiscal 2012 due principally to the $1.0 billion account receivable securitization program discussed below. In fiscal 2011 working capital increased $5.2 billion due principally to higher agricultural commodity prices. Cash used in investing activities was $1.1 billion for the year compared to a $1.7 billion use last year. Capital expenditures were $1.5 billion for the year compared to $1.2 billion last year. The Company spent approximately $0.2 billion on acquisitions in fiscal 2012 and 2011. Related to the sale of the majority interest in Hickory Point Bank, the Company reduced its holdings of marketable securities generating cash of $0.3 billion and divested cash of $0.1 billion as a result of the deconsolidation. In fiscal 2011, net purchases of marketable securities used $0.3 billion of cash. Cash used in financing activities was $1.1 billion for the year compared to cash provided by financing activities of $3.6 billion last year. In fiscal 2012, the Company returned nearly $1.0 billion to shareholders in the form of dividends and share repurchases, including the acquisition of 18.4 million of its common shares for $0.5 billion. In fiscal 2011 net borrowings increased primarily to fund higher working capital. Short term borrowings increased due principally to higher commercial paper borrowings, and long term borrowings increased primarily as a result of the issuance of $1.5 billion of 18 month floating rate notes in February 2011. In addition the Company issued 44 million shares of common stock and received $1.75 billion in fiscal 2011 under the forward stock purchase component of the Companys Equity Units (see Note 10 in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data). At June 30, 2012, the Company had $1.5 billion of cash, cash equivalents, and short term marketable securities and a current ratio, defined as current assets divided by current liabilities, of 1.8 to 1. Included in working capital is $7.8 billion of readily marketable commodity inventories. At June 30, 2012, the Companys capital resources included net worth of $18.2 billion and lines of credit totaling $6.5 billion, of which $4.4 billion was unused. The Companys ratio of long term debt to total capital (the sum of the Companys long term debt and shareholders equity) was 26% at June 30, 2012 and 30% at June 30, 2011. This ratio is a measure of the Companys long term indebtedness and is an indicator of financial flexibility. Of the Companys total lines of credit, $4.3 billion support a commercial paper borrowing facility, against which there were $1.3 billion of commercial paper outstanding at June 30, 2012. In August 2012, the Company added a $2.0 billion credit facility which will support commercial paper borrowings. On March 27, 2012, the Company entered into an amendment of its accounts receivable securitization program (as amended, the Program) with certain commercial paper conduit purchasers and committed purchasers (collectively, the Purchasers). The Program provides the Company with up to $1.0 billion in funding against accounts receivable transferred into the Program and expands the Companys access to liquidity through efficient use of its balance sheet assets. Under the Program, certain U.S. originated trade accounts receivable are sold to a wholly owned bankruptcy remote entity, ADM Receivables, LLC (ADM Receivables). ADM Receivables in turn transfers such purchased accounts receivable in their entirety to the Purchasers pursuant to a receivables purchase agreement. In exchange for the transfer of the accounts receivable, ADM Receivables receives a cash payment of up to $1.0 billion and an additional amount upon the collection of the accounts receivable (deferred consideration). ADM Receivables uses the cash proceeds from the transfer of receivables to the Purchasers and other consideration to finance the purchase of receivables from the Company and the ADM subsidiaries originating the receivables. The Company acts as master servicer, responsible for servicing and collecting the accounts receivable under the Program. The Program terminates on June 28, 2013 (see Note 20 for more information and disclosures on the Program). As of June 30, 2012, the fair value of trade receivables transferred to the Purchasers under the Program and derecognized from the Companys consolidated balance sheet was $1.6 billion. In exchange for the transfer, the Company received cash of $1.0 billion and recorded a receivable for deferred consideration included in other current assets. The Company has outstanding $1.4 billion principal amount of floating rate notes due on August 13, 2012. Interest on the notes accrues at a floating rate three month LIBOR reset quarterly plus 0.16% and is paid quarterly. As of June 30, 2012, the interest rate on the notes was 0.63%. In August 2012, the Company paid these notes with funds available from short term borrowings. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) The Company has outstanding $1.15 billion principal amount of convertible senior notes. As of June 30, 2012, none of the conditions permitting conversion of these notes had been satisfied. The Company has purchased call options and warrants intended to reduce the potential shareholder dilution upon future conversion of the notes. As of June 30, 2012, the market price of the Companys common stock was not greater than the exercise price of the purchased call options or warrants related to the convertible senior notes. The Company is currently experiencing generally higher prices for agricultural commodities as a result of tightening crop supplies, mostly due to weather impacts on current year U.S. corn and soybean crop production. Higher prices of commodities have historically correlated with increases in the Companys working capital requirements. The Company depends on access to credit markets, which can be impacted by its credit rating and factors outside of the Companys control, such as the European debt situation, to fund its working capital needs and capital expenditures. The Company expects capital expenditures to range from $0.5 billion to $0.6 billion for the upcoming 6 month period ending December 31, 2012. On November 5, 2009, the Companys Board of Directors approved a stock repurchase program authorizing the Company to repurchase up to 100,000,000 shares of the Companys common stock during the period commencing January 1, 2010 and ending December 31, 2014. The Company has acquired approximately 31.6 million shares under this program, resulting in remaining approval to acquire 68.4 million shares. The Companys credit facilities and certain debentures require the Company to comply with specified financial and non financial covenants including maintenance of minimum tangible net worth as well as limitations related to incurring liens, secured debt, and certain other financing arrangements. The Company is in compliance with these covenants as of June 30, 2012. Contractual Obligations In the normal course of business, the Company enters into contracts and commitments which obligate the Company to make payments in the future. The following table sets forth the Companys significant future obligations by time period. Purchases include commodity based contracts entered into in the normal course of business, which are further described in Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, energy related purchase contracts entered into in the normal course of business, and other purchase obligations related to the Companys normal business activities. The following table does not include unrecognized income tax benefits of $80 million as of June 30, 2012 as the Company is unable to reasonably estimate the timing of settlement. Where applicable, information included in the Companys consolidated financial statements and notes is cross referenced in this table. Payments Due by Period Contractual Item 8 Note Less than 1 3 3 5 More than Obligations Reference Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years (In millions) Purchases Inventories $ 17,724 $ 17,307 $ 211 $ 130 $ 76 Energy 866 390 233 87 156 Other 242 145 86 10 1 Total purchases 18,832 17,842 530 227 233 Short term debt 2,108 2,108 Long term debt Note 10 8,212 1,677 1,114 320 5,101 Estimated interest payments 6,688 374 650 636 5,028 Operating leases Note 16 1,135 244 365 263 263 Estimated pension and other postretirement plan contributions (1) Note 17 188 64 23 25 76 Total $ 37,163 $ 22,309 $ 2,682 $ 1,471 $ 10,701 (1) Includes pension contributions of $53 million for fiscal 2013. The Company is unable to estimate the amount of pension contributions beyond fiscal year 2013. For more information concerning the Companys pension and other postretirement plans, see Note 17 in Item 8. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) At June 30, 2012, the Company estimates it will spend approximately $2.1 billion through calendar year 2015 to complete currently approved capital projects which are not included in the table above. The Company also has outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds of $644 million at June 30, 2012. In addition, the Company has entered into agreements, primarily debt guarantee agreements related to equity method investees, which could obligate the Company to make future payments. The Companys liability under these agreements arises only if the primary entity fails to perform its contractual obligation. The Company has collateral for a portion of these contingent obligations. At June 30, 2012, these contingent obligations totaled approximately $30 million. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements On March 27, 2012, the Company entered into an amendment of its accounts receivable securitization program (as amended, the Program) with certain commercial paper conduit purchasers and committed purchasers (collectively, the Purchasers). Under the Program, certain U.S. originated trade accounts receivable are sold to a wholly owned bankruptcy remote entity, ADM Receivables, LLC (ADM Receivables). ADM Receivables in turn transfers such purchased accounts receivable in their entirety to the Purchasers pursuant to a receivables purchase agreement. In exchange for the transfer of the accounts receivable, ADM Receivables receives a cash payment of up to $1.0 billion and an additional amount upon the collection of the accounts receivable (deferred consideration). ADM Receivables uses the cash proceeds from the transfer of receivables to the Purchasers and other consideration to finance the purchase of receivables from the Company and the ADM subsidiaries originating the receivables. The Company accounts for these transfers as sales. The Company has no retained interests in the transferred receivables, other than collection and administrative responsibilities and its right to the deferred consideration. At June 30, 2012, the Company did not record a servicing asset or liability related to its retained responsibility, based on its assessment of the servicing fee, market values for similar transactions and its cost of servicing the receivables sold. The Program terminates on June 28, 2013. As of June 30, 2012, the fair value of trade receivables transferred to the Purchasers under the Program and derecognized from the Companys consolidated balance sheet was $1.6 billion. In exchange for the transfer, the Company received cash of $1.0 billion and recorded a receivable for deferred consideration included in other current assets. Cash collections from customers on receivables sold were $8.9 billion for the four months ended June 30, 2012. Of this amount, $8.9 billion pertains to cash collections on the deferred consideration. Deferred consideration is paid to the Company in cash on behalf of the Purchasers as receivables are collected; however, as this is a revolving facility, cash collected from the Companys customers is reinvested by the Purchasers daily in new receivable purchases under the Program. The Companys risk of loss following the transfer of accounts receivable under the Program is limited to the deferred consideration outstanding, which is classified as other current assets and was $0.6 billion at June 30, 2012. The Company carries the deferred consideration at fair value determined by calculating the expected amount of cash to be received and is principally based on observable inputs (a Level 2 measurement under ASC 820) consisting mainly of the face amount of the receivables adjusted for anticipated credit losses and discounted at the appropriate market rate. Payment of deferred consideration is not subject to significant risks other than delinquencies and credit losses on accounts receivable transferred under the program which have historically been insignificant. Transfers of receivables under the Program during the year ended June 30, 2012 resulted in an expense for the loss on sale of $4 million which is classified as selling, general, and administrative expenses in the consolidated statements of earnings. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Critical Accounting Policies The process of preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the carrying values of the Companys assets and liabilities as well as the recognition of revenues and expenses. These estimates and judgments are based on the Companys historical experience and managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Certain of the Companys accounting policies are considered critical, as these policies are important to the depiction of the Companys financial statements and require significant or complex judgment by management. Management has discussed with the Companys Audit Committee the development, selection, disclosure, and application of these critical accounting policies. Following are the accounting policies management considers critical to the Companys financial statements. Fair Value Measurements Inventories and Derivatives Certain of the Companys assets and liabilities as of June 30, 2012 are valued at estimated fair values, including $6.8 billion of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, $3.1 billion of derivative assets, $3.0 billion of derivative liabilities, and $0.3 billion of inventory related payables. Derivative assets and liabilities include forward fixed price purchase and sale contracts for agricultural commodities, forward foreign exchange contracts, and over the counter instruments such as options contracts. The merchandisable agricultural commodities are freely traded, have quoted market prices, and may be sold without significant additional processing. Management estimates fair value for its commodity related assets and liabilities based on exchange quoted prices, adjusted for differences in local markets. The Companys fair value measurements are mainly based on observable market quotations without significant adjustments and are therefore reported as Level 1 or Level 2 within the fair value hierarchy. Level 3 fair value measurements represent fair value estimates where unobservable price components represent 10% or more of the total fair value price. For more information concerning amounts reported as Level 3, see Note 3 in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Changes in the market values of these inventories and contracts are recognized in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. If management used different methods or factors to estimate market value, amounts reported as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. Additionally, if market conditions change subsequent to year end, amounts reported in future periods as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. Derivatives Designated Hedging Activities The Company, from time to time, uses derivative contracts designated as cash flow hedges to fix the purchase price of anticipated volumes of commodities to be purchased and processed in a future month, to fix the purchase price of the Companys anticipated natural gas requirements for certain production facilities, and to fix the sales price of anticipated volumes of ethanol. These designated hedging programs principally relate to the Companys Corn Processing operating segment. The change in the market value of such derivative contracts has historically been, and is expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold and net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. If it is determined that the derivative instruments used are no longer effective at offsetting changes in the price of the hedged item, then the changes in the market value of these exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts would be recorded immediately in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. See Note 4 in Item 8 for additional information. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Investments in Affiliates The Company applies the equity method of accounting for investments over which the Company has the ability to exercise significant influence, including its 16.4% investment in Wilmar. These investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings and are adjusted, where appropriate, for amortizable basis differences between the investment balance and the underlying net assets of the investee. Generally, the minimum ownership threshold for asserting significant influence is 20% ownership of the investee. However, the Company considers all relevant factors in determining its ability to assert significant influence including but not limited to, ownership percentage, board membership, customer and vendor relationships, and other arrangements. If management used a different accounting method for these investments, then the amount of earnings from affiliates the Company recognizes may differ. Income Taxes The Company frequently faces challenges from U.S. and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company records reserves for estimates of potential additional tax owed by the Company. As an example, a subsidiary of the Company received tax assessments in the amount of $570 million consisting of tax, penalty, and interest (adjusted for interest and variation in currency exchange rates) from the Brazilian Federal Revenue Service challenging the deductibility of commodity hedging losses incurred by the Company for tax years 2004, 2006 and 2007. The Company evaluated its tax position regarding these hedging transactions and concluded, based in part upon advice from Brazilian legal counsel, that it was appropriate to recognize the tax benefits of these deductions (see Note 15 in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for additional information). Deferred tax assets represent items to be used as tax deductions or credits in future tax returns, and the related tax benefit has already been recognized in the Companys income statement. The realization of the Companys deferred tax assets is dependent upon future taxable income in specific tax jurisdictions, the timing and amount of which are uncertain. The Company evaluates all available positive and negative evidence including estimated future reversals of existing temporary differences, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies, and recent financial results. Valuation allowances related to these deferred tax assets have been established to the extent the realization of the tax benefit is not likely. To the extent the Company were to favorably resolve matters for which accruals have been established or be required to pay amounts in excess of the aforementioned reserves, the Companys effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be impacted. Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and the Companys share of the undistributed earnings of affiliated corporate joint venture companies accounted for on the equity method amounting to approximately $7.2 billion at June 30, 2012, are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Property, Plant, and Equipment and Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand, changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned factors may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and cash flows of the Companys assets in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its facilities. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment, technology, and companies related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. Assets are written down after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these assets, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. During 2012, 2011, and 2010, impairment charges were $367 million, $2 million, and $9 million, respectively (see Note 19 for additional information on charges taken in 2012). Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets Goodwill and intangible assets deemed to have indefinite lives are not amortized but are subject to annual impairment tests. The Company evaluates goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year or whenever there are indicators that the carrying value of the assets may not be fully recoverable. Definite lived intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives and are reviewed for impairment whenever there are indicators that the carrying value of the assets may not be fully recoverable. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its impairment tests, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Employee Benefit Plans The Company provides substantially all U.S. employees and employees at certain international subsidiaries with pension benefits. Eligible U.S. employees with five or more years of service prior to January 1, 2009 participate in a defined benefit pension plan. Eligible U.S. employees hired on or after January 1, 2009 (and eligible salaried employees with less than five years of service prior to January 1, 2009) participate in a cash balance pension formula. The Company provides eligible U.S. employees who retire under qualifying conditions with access to postretirement health care, at full cost to the retiree (certain employees are grandfathered into subsidized coverage). In order to measure the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans, management makes several estimates and assumptions, including interest rates used to discount certain liabilities, rates of return on assets set aside to fund these plans, rates of compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and anticipated future health care costs. These estimates and assumptions are based on the Companys historical experience combined with managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Management also uses third party actuaries to assist in measuring the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans. If management used different estimates and assumptions regarding these plans, the funded status of the plans could vary significantly, and the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. See Note 17 in Item 8 for additional information. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in: commodity market prices as they relate to the Companys net commodity position, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and prices of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to factors such as changes in weather conditions, crop disease, plantings, government programs and policies, competition, changes in global demand, changes in customer preferences and standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. The Company manages its exposure to adverse price movements of agricultural commodities used for, and produced in, its business operations, by entering into derivative and non derivative contracts which reduce the Companys overall short or long commodity position. Additionally, the Company uses exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the correlation between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contract defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company, from time to time, enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed designated hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold or net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. The Companys commodity position consists of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, related purchase and sales contracts, energy and freight contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts including contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements, net of sales. The fair value of the Companys commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing all of the commodity positions at quoted market prices for the period, where available, or utilizing a close proxy. The Company has established metrics to monitor the amount of market risk exposure, which consist of volumetric limits, and value at risk (VaR) limits. VaR measures the potential loss, at a 95% confidence level, that could be incurred over a one year period. Volumetric limits are monitored daily and VaR calculations and sensitivity analysis are monitored weekly. In addition to measuring the hypothetical loss resulting from an adverse two standard deviation move in market prices (assuming no correlations) over a one year period using VaR, sensitivity analysis is performed measuring the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in market prices. The highest, lowest, and average weekly position for each of the last two years together with the market risk from a hypothetical 10% adverse price change is as follows: 2012 2011 Long/(Short) Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest position $ 1,477 $ 148 $ 2,388 $ 239 Lowest position (383 ) (38 ) 368 37 Average position 546 55 1,644 164 The decline in fair value of the average position for 2012 compared to 2011 was principally the result of the decline in average quantities underlying the weekly commodity position. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) Currencies The Company has consolidated subsidiaries in over 75 countries. For the majority of the Companys subsidiaries located outside the United States, the local currency is the functional currency. To reduce the risks associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, the Company enters into currency exchange contracts to minimize its foreign currency position related to transactions denominated primarily in Euro, British pound, Canadian dollar, and Brazilian real currencies. These currencies represent the major functional or local currencies in which recurring business transactions occur. The Company does not use currency exchange contracts as hedges against amounts permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The currency exchange contracts used are forward contracts, swaps with banks, exchange traded futures contracts, and over the counter options. The changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $7.2 billion at June 30, 2012, and $8.2 billion at June 30, 2011. This decrease is due to the depreciation of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar partially offset by an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The potential loss in fair value, which would principally be recognized in Other Comprehensive Income, resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $722 million and $823 million for 2012 and 2011, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 50 basis points decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2012 2011 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 8,057 $ 9,108 Excess of fair value over carrying value 1,522 842 Market risk 422 333 The decrease in fair value of long term debt in 2012 resulted principally from the reclassification of $1.5 billion in floating rate notes to short term debt partially offset by decreased interest rates. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) The Company has outstanding $1.15 billion principal amount of convertible senior notes. As of June 30, 2012, none of the conditions permitting conversion of these notes had been satisfied. The Company has purchased call options and warrants intended to reduce the potential shareholder dilution upon future conversion of the notes. As of June 30, 2012, the market price of the Companys common stock was not greater than the exercise price of the purchased call options or warrants related to the convertible senior notes. The Company is currently experiencing generally higher prices for agricultural commodities as a result of tightening crop supplies, mostly due to weather impacts on current year U.S. corn and soybean crop production. Higher prices of commodities have historically correlated with increases in the Companys working capital requirements. The Company depends on access to credit markets, which can be impacted by its credit rating and factors outside of the Companys control, such as the European debt situation, to fund its working capital needs and capital expenditures. The Company expects capital expenditures to range from $0.5 billion to $0.6 billion for the upcoming 6 month period ending December 31, 2012. On November 5, 2009, the Companys Board of Directors approved a stock repurchase program authorizing the Company to repurchase up to 100,000,000 shares of the Companys common stock during the period commencing January 1, 2010 and ending December 31, 2014. The Company has acquired approximately 31.6 million shares under this program, resulting in remaining approval to acquire 68.4 million shares. The Companys credit facilities and certain debentures require the Company to comply with specified financial and non financial covenants including maintenance of minimum tangible net worth as well as limitations related to incurring liens, secured debt, and certain other financing arrangements. The Company is in compliance with these covenants as of June 30, 2012. Contractual Obligations In the normal course of business, the Company enters into contracts and commitments which obligate the Company to make payments in the future. The following table sets forth the Companys significant future obligations by time period. Purchases include commodity based contracts entered into in the normal course of business, which are further described in Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, energy related purchase contracts entered into in the normal course of business, and other purchase obligations related to the Companys normal business activities. The following table does not include unrecognized income tax benefits of $80 million as of June 30, 2012 as the Company is unable to reasonably estimate the timing of settlement. Where applicable, information included in the Companys consolidated financial statements and notes is cross referenced in this table. Payments Due by Period Contractual Item 8 Note Less than 1 3 3 5 More than Obligations Reference Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years (In millions) Purchases Inventories $ 17,724 $ 17,307 $ 211 $ 130 $ 76 Energy 866 390 233 87 156 Other 242 145 86 10 1 Total purchases 18,832 17,842 530 227 233 Short term debt 2,108 2,108 Long term debt Note 10 8,212 1,677 1,114 320 5,101 Estimated interest payments 6,688 374 650 636 5,028 Operating leases Note 16 1,135 244 365 263 263 Estimated pension and other postretirement plan contributions (1) Note 17 188 64 23 25 76 Total $ 37,163 $ 22,309 $ 2,682 $ 1,471 $ 10,701 (1) Includes pension contributions of $53 million for fiscal 2013. The Company is unable to estimate the amount of pension contributions beyond fiscal year 2013. For more information concerning the Companys pension and other postretirement plans, see Note 17 in Item 8. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) At June 30, 2012, the Company estimates it will spend approximately $2.1 billion through calendar year 2015 to complete currently approved capital projects which are not included in the table above. The Company also has outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds of $644 million at June 30, 2012. In addition, the Company has entered into agreements, primarily debt guarantee agreements related to equity method investees, which could obligate the Company to make future payments. The Companys liability under these agreements arises only if the primary entity fails to perform its contractual obligation. The Company has collateral for a portion of these contingent obligations. At June 30, 2012, these contingent obligations totaled approximately $30 million. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements On March 27, 2012, the Company entered into an amendment of its accounts receivable securitization program (as amended, the Program) with certain commercial paper conduit purchasers and committed purchasers (collectively, the Purchasers). Under the Program, certain U.S. originated trade accounts receivable are sold to a wholly owned bankruptcy remote entity, ADM Receivables, LLC (ADM Receivables). ADM Receivables in turn transfers such purchased accounts receivable in their entirety to the Purchasers pursuant to a receivables purchase agreement. In exchange for the transfer of the accounts receivable, ADM Receivables receives a cash payment of up to $1.0 billion and an additional amount upon the collection of the accounts receivable (deferred consideration). ADM Receivables uses the cash proceeds from the transfer of receivables to the Purchasers and other consideration to finance the purchase of receivables from the Company and the ADM subsidiaries originating the receivables. The Company accounts for these transfers as sales. The Company has no retained interests in the transferred receivables, other than collection and administrative responsibilities and its right to the deferred consideration. At June 30, 2012, the Company did not record a servicing asset or liability related to its retained responsibility, based on its assessment of the servicing fee, market values for similar transactions and its cost of servicing the receivables sold. The Program terminates on June 28, 2013. As of June 30, 2012, the fair value of trade receivables transferred to the Purchasers under the Program and derecognized from the Companys consolidated balance sheet was $1.6 billion. In exchange for the transfer, the Company received cash of $1.0 billion and recorded a receivable for deferred consideration included in other current assets. Cash collections from customers on receivables sold were $8.9 billion for the four months ended June 30, 2012. Of this amount, $8.9 billion pertains to cash collections on the deferred consideration. Deferred consideration is paid to the Company in cash on behalf of the Purchasers as receivables are collected; however, as this is a revolving facility, cash collected from the Companys customers is reinvested by the Purchasers daily in new receivable purchases under the Program. The Companys risk of loss following the transfer of accounts receivable under the Program is limited to the deferred consideration outstanding, which is classified as other current assets and was $0.6 billion at June 30, 2012. The Company carries the deferred consideration at fair value determined by calculating the expected amount of cash to be received and is principally based on observable inputs (a Level 2 measurement under ASC 820) consisting mainly of the face amount of the receivables adjusted for anticipated credit losses and discounted at the appropriate market rate. Payment of deferred consideration is not subject to significant risks other than delinquencies and credit losses on accounts receivable transferred under the program which have historically been insignificant. Transfers of receivables under the Program during the year ended June 30, 2012 resulted in an expense for the loss on sale of $4 million which is classified as selling, general, and administrative expenses in the consolidated statements of earnings. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Critical Accounting Policies The process of preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the carrying values of the Companys assets and liabilities as well as the recognition of revenues and expenses. These estimates and judgments are based on the Companys historical experience and managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Certain of the Companys accounting policies are considered critical, as these policies are important to the depiction of the Companys financial statements and require significant or complex judgment by management. Management has discussed with the Companys Audit Committee the development, selection, disclosure, and application of these critical accounting policies. Following are the accounting policies management considers critical to the Companys financial statements. Fair Value Measurements Inventories and Derivatives Certain of the Companys assets and liabilities as of June 30, 2012 are valued at estimated fair values, including $6.8 billion of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, $3.1 billion of derivative assets, $3.0 billion of derivative liabilities, and $0.3 billion of inventory related payables. Derivative assets and liabilities include forward fixed price purchase and sale contracts for agricultural commodities, forward foreign exchange contracts, and over the counter instruments such as options contracts. The merchandisable agricultural commodities are freely traded, have quoted market prices, and may be sold without significant additional processing. Management estimates fair value for its commodity related assets and liabilities based on exchange quoted prices, adjusted for differences in local markets. The Companys fair value measurements are mainly based on observable market quotations without significant adjustments and are therefore reported as Level 1 or Level 2 within the fair value hierarchy. Level 3 fair value measurements represent fair value estimates where unobservable price components represent 10% or more of the total fair value price. For more information concerning amounts reported as Level 3, see Note 3 in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Changes in the market values of these inventories and contracts are recognized in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. If management used different methods or factors to estimate market value, amounts reported as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. Additionally, if market conditions change subsequent to year end, amounts reported in future periods as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. Derivatives Designated Hedging Activities The Company, from time to time, uses derivative contracts designated as cash flow hedges to fix the purchase price of anticipated volumes of commodities to be purchased and processed in a future month, to fix the purchase price of the Companys anticipated natural gas requirements for certain production facilities, and to fix the sales price of anticipated volumes of ethanol. These designated hedging programs principally relate to the Companys Corn Processing operating segment. The change in the market value of such derivative contracts has historically been, and is expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold and net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. If it is determined that the derivative instruments used are no longer effective at offsetting changes in the price of the hedged item, then the changes in the market value of these exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts would be recorded immediately in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. See Note 4 in Item 8 for additional information. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Investments in Affiliates The Company applies the equity method of accounting for investments over which the Company has the ability to exercise significant influence, including its 16.4% investment in Wilmar. These investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings and are adjusted, where appropriate, for amortizable basis differences between the investment balance and the underlying net assets of the investee. Generally, the minimum ownership threshold for asserting significant influence is 20% ownership of the investee. However, the Company considers all relevant factors in determining its ability to assert significant influence including but not limited to, ownership percentage, board membership, customer and vendor relationships, and other arrangements. If management used a different accounting method for these investments, then the amount of earnings from affiliates the Company recognizes may differ. Income Taxes The Company frequently faces challenges from U.S. and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company records reserves for estimates of potential additional tax owed by the Company. As an example, a subsidiary of the Company received tax assessments in the amount of $570 million consisting of tax, penalty, and interest (adjusted for interest and variation in currency exchange rates) from the Brazilian Federal Revenue Service challenging the deductibility of commodity hedging losses incurred by the Company for tax years 2004, 2006 and 2007. The Company evaluated its tax position regarding these hedging transactions and concluded, based in part upon advice from Brazilian legal counsel, that it was appropriate to recognize the tax benefits of these deductions (see Note 15 in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for additional information). Deferred tax assets represent items to be used as tax deductions or credits in future tax returns, and the related tax benefit has already been recognized in the Companys income statement. The realization of the Companys deferred tax assets is dependent upon future taxable income in specific tax jurisdictions, the timing and amount of which are uncertain. The Company evaluates all available positive and negative evidence including estimated future reversals of existing temporary differences, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies, and recent financial results. Valuation allowances related to these deferred tax assets have been established to the extent the realization of the tax benefit is not likely. To the extent the Company were to favorably resolve matters for which accruals have been established or be required to pay amounts in excess of the aforementioned reserves, the Companys effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be impacted. Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and the Companys share of the undistributed earnings of affiliated corporate joint venture companies accounted for on the equity method amounting to approximately $7.2 billion at June 30, 2012, are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Property, Plant, and Equipment and Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand, changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned factors may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and cash flows of the Companys assets in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its facilities. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment, technology, and companies related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. Assets are written down after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these assets, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. During 2012, 2011, and 2010, impairment charges were $367 million, $2 million, and $9 million, respectively (see Note 19 for additional information on charges taken in 2012). Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets Goodwill and intangible assets deemed to have indefinite lives are not amortized but are subject to annual impairment tests. The Company evaluates goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year or whenever there are indicators that the carrying value of the assets may not be fully recoverable. Definite lived intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives and are reviewed for impairment whenever there are indicators that the carrying value of the assets may not be fully recoverable. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its impairment tests, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Employee Benefit Plans The Company provides substantially all U.S. employees and employees at certain international subsidiaries with pension benefits. Eligible U.S. employees with five or more years of service prior to January 1, 2009 participate in a defined benefit pension plan. Eligible U.S. employees hired on or after January 1, 2009 (and eligible salaried employees with less than five years of service prior to January 1, 2009) participate in a cash balance pension formula. The Company provides eligible U.S. employees who retire under qualifying conditions with access to postretirement health care, at full cost to the retiree (certain employees are grandfathered into subsidized coverage). In order to measure the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans, management makes several estimates and assumptions, including interest rates used to discount certain liabilities, rates of return on assets set aside to fund these plans, rates of compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and anticipated future health care costs. These estimates and assumptions are based on the Companys historical experience combined with managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Management also uses third party actuaries to assist in measuring the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans. If management used different estimates and assumptions regarding these plans, the funded status of the plans could vary significantly, and the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. See Note 17 in Item 8 for additional information. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in: commodity market prices as they relate to the Companys net commodity position, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and prices of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to factors such as changes in weather conditions, crop disease, plantings, government programs and policies, competition, changes in global demand, changes in customer preferences and standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. The Company manages its exposure to adverse price movements of agricultural commodities used for, and produced in, its business operations, by entering into derivative and non derivative contracts which reduce the Companys overall short or long commodity position. Additionally, the Company uses exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the correlation between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contract defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company, from time to time, enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed designated hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold or net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. The Companys commodity position consists of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, related purchase and sales contracts, energy and freight contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts including contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements, net of sales. The fair value of the Companys commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing all of the commodity positions at quoted market prices for the period, where available, or utilizing a close proxy. The Company has established metrics to monitor the amount of market risk exposure, which consist of volumetric limits, and value at risk (VaR) limits. VaR measures the potential loss, at a 95% confidence level, that could be incurred over a one year period. Volumetric limits are monitored daily and VaR calculations and sensitivity analysis are monitored weekly. In addition to measuring the hypothetical loss resulting from an adverse two standard deviation move in market prices (assuming no correlations) over a one year period using VaR, sensitivity analysis is performed measuring the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in market prices. The highest, lowest, and average weekly position for each of the last two years together with the market risk from a hypothetical 10% adverse price change is as follows: 2012 2011 Long/(Short) Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest position $ 1,477 $ 148 $ 2,388 $ 239 Lowest position (383 ) (38 ) 368 37 Average position 546 55 1,644 164 The decline in fair value of the average position for 2012 compared to 2011 was principally the result of the decline in average quantities underlying the weekly commodity position. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) Currencies The Company has consolidated subsidiaries in over 75 countries. For the majority of the Companys subsidiaries located outside the United States, the local currency is the functional currency. To reduce the risks associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, the Company enters into currency exchange contracts to minimize its foreign currency position related to transactions denominated primarily in Euro, British pound, Canadian dollar, and Brazilian real currencies. These currencies represent the major functional or local currencies in which recurring business transactions occur. The Company does not use currency exchange contracts as hedges against amounts permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The currency exchange contracts used are forward contracts, swaps with banks, exchange traded futures contracts, and over the counter options. The changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $7.2 billion at June 30, 2012, and $8.2 billion at June 30, 2011. This decrease is due to the depreciation of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar partially offset by an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The potential loss in fair value, which would principally be recognized in Other Comprehensive Income, resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $722 million and $823 million for 2012 and 2011, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 50 basis points decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2012 2011 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 8,057 $ 9,108 Excess of fair value over carrying value 1,522 842 Market risk 422 333 The decrease in fair value of long term debt in 2012 resulted principally from the reclassification of $1.5 billion in floating rate notes to short term debt partially offset by decreased interest rates. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) At June 30, 2012, the Company estimates it will spend approximately $2.1 billion through calendar year 2015 to complete currently approved capital projects which are not included in the table above. The Company also has outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds of $644 million at June 30, 2012. In addition, the Company has entered into agreements, primarily debt guarantee agreements related to equity method investees, which could obligate the Company to make future payments. The Companys liability under these agreements arises only if the primary entity fails to perform its contractual obligation. The Company has collateral for a portion of these contingent obligations. At June 30, 2012, these contingent obligations totaled approximately $30 million. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements On March 27, 2012, the Company entered into an amendment of its accounts receivable securitization program (as amended, the Program) with certain commercial paper conduit purchasers and committed purchasers (collectively, the Purchasers). Under the Program, certain U.S. originated trade accounts receivable are sold to a wholly owned bankruptcy remote entity, ADM Receivables, LLC (ADM Receivables). ADM Receivables in turn transfers such purchased accounts receivable in their entirety to the Purchasers pursuant to a receivables purchase agreement. In exchange for the transfer of the accounts receivable, ADM Receivables receives a cash payment of up to $1.0 billion and an additional amount upon the collection of the accounts receivable (deferred consideration). ADM Receivables uses the cash proceeds from the transfer of receivables to the Purchasers and other consideration to finance the purchase of receivables from the Company and the ADM subsidiaries originating the receivables. The Company accounts for these transfers as sales. The Company has no retained interests in the transferred receivables, other than collection and administrative responsibilities and its right to the deferred consideration. At June 30, 2012, the Company did not record a servicing asset or liability related to its retained responsibility, based on its assessment of the servicing fee, market values for similar transactions and its cost of servicing the receivables sold. The Program terminates on June 28, 2013. As of June 30, 2012, the fair value of trade receivables transferred to the Purchasers under the Program and derecognized from the Companys consolidated balance sheet was $1.6 billion. In exchange for the transfer, the Company received cash of $1.0 billion and recorded a receivable for deferred consideration included in other current assets. Cash collections from customers on receivables sold were $8.9 billion for the four months ended June 30, 2012. Of this amount, $8.9 billion pertains to cash collections on the deferred consideration. Deferred consideration is paid to the Company in cash on behalf of the Purchasers as receivables are collected; however, as this is a revolving facility, cash collected from the Companys customers is reinvested by the Purchasers daily in new receivable purchases under the Program. The Companys risk of loss following the transfer of accounts receivable under the Program is limited to the deferred consideration outstanding, which is classified as other current assets and was $0.6 billion at June 30, 2012. The Company carries the deferred consideration at fair value determined by calculating the expected amount of cash to be received and is principally based on observable inputs (a Level 2 measurement under ASC 820) consisting mainly of the face amount of the receivables adjusted for anticipated credit losses and discounted at the appropriate market rate. Payment of deferred consideration is not subject to significant risks other than delinquencies and credit losses on accounts receivable transferred under the program which have historically been insignificant. Transfers of receivables under the Program during the year ended June 30, 2012 resulted in an expense for the loss on sale of $4 million which is classified as selling, general, and administrative expenses in the consolidated statements of earnings. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Critical Accounting Policies The process of preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the carrying values of the Companys assets and liabilities as well as the recognition of revenues and expenses. These estimates and judgments are based on the Companys historical experience and managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Certain of the Companys accounting policies are considered critical, as these policies are important to the depiction of the Companys financial statements and require significant or complex judgment by management. Management has discussed with the Companys Audit Committee the development, selection, disclosure, and application of these critical accounting policies. Following are the accounting policies management considers critical to the Companys financial statements. Fair Value Measurements Inventories and Derivatives Certain of the Companys assets and liabilities as of June 30, 2012 are valued at estimated fair values, including $6.8 billion of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, $3.1 billion of derivative assets, $3.0 billion of derivative liabilities, and $0.3 billion of inventory related payables. Derivative assets and liabilities include forward fixed price purchase and sale contracts for agricultural commodities, forward foreign exchange contracts, and over the counter instruments such as options contracts. The merchandisable agricultural commodities are freely traded, have quoted market prices, and may be sold without significant additional processing. Management estimates fair value for its commodity related assets and liabilities based on exchange quoted prices, adjusted for differences in local markets. The Companys fair value measurements are mainly based on observable market quotations without significant adjustments and are therefore reported as Level 1 or Level 2 within the fair value hierarchy. Level 3 fair value measurements represent fair value estimates where unobservable price components represent 10% or more of the total fair value price. For more information concerning amounts reported as Level 3, see Note 3 in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Changes in the market values of these inventories and contracts are recognized in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. If management used different methods or factors to estimate market value, amounts reported as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. Additionally, if market conditions change subsequent to year end, amounts reported in future periods as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. Derivatives Designated Hedging Activities The Company, from time to time, uses derivative contracts designated as cash flow hedges to fix the purchase price of anticipated volumes of commodities to be purchased and processed in a future month, to fix the purchase price of the Companys anticipated natural gas requirements for certain production facilities, and to fix the sales price of anticipated volumes of ethanol. These designated hedging programs principally relate to the Companys Corn Processing operating segment. The change in the market value of such derivative contracts has historically been, and is expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold and net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. If it is determined that the derivative instruments used are no longer effective at offsetting changes in the price of the hedged item, then the changes in the market value of these exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts would be recorded immediately in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. See Note 4 in Item 8 for additional information. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Investments in Affiliates The Company applies the equity method of accounting for investments over which the Company has the ability to exercise significant influence, including its 16.4% investment in Wilmar. These investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings and are adjusted, where appropriate, for amortizable basis differences between the investment balance and the underlying net assets of the investee. Generally, the minimum ownership threshold for asserting significant influence is 20% ownership of the investee. However, the Company considers all relevant factors in determining its ability to assert significant influence including but not limited to, ownership percentage, board membership, customer and vendor relationships, and other arrangements. If management used a different accounting method for these investments, then the amount of earnings from affiliates the Company recognizes may differ. Income Taxes The Company frequently faces challenges from U.S. and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company records reserves for estimates of potential additional tax owed by the Company. As an example, a subsidiary of the Company received tax assessments in the amount of $570 million consisting of tax, penalty, and interest (adjusted for interest and variation in currency exchange rates) from the Brazilian Federal Revenue Service challenging the deductibility of commodity hedging losses incurred by the Company for tax years 2004, 2006 and 2007. The Company evaluated its tax position regarding these hedging transactions and concluded, based in part upon advice from Brazilian legal counsel, that it was appropriate to recognize the tax benefits of these deductions (see Note 15 in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for additional information). Deferred tax assets represent items to be used as tax deductions or credits in future tax returns, and the related tax benefit has already been recognized in the Companys income statement. The realization of the Companys deferred tax assets is dependent upon future taxable income in specific tax jurisdictions, the timing and amount of which are uncertain. The Company evaluates all available positive and negative evidence including estimated future reversals of existing temporary differences, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies, and recent financial results. Valuation allowances related to these deferred tax assets have been established to the extent the realization of the tax benefit is not likely. To the extent the Company were to favorably resolve matters for which accruals have been established or be required to pay amounts in excess of the aforementioned reserves, the Companys effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be impacted. Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and the Companys share of the undistributed earnings of affiliated corporate joint venture companies accounted for on the equity method amounting to approximately $7.2 billion at June 30, 2012, are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Property, Plant, and Equipment and Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand, changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned factors may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and cash flows of the Companys assets in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its facilities. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment, technology, and companies related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. Assets are written down after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these assets, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. During 2012, 2011, and 2010, impairment charges were $367 million, $2 million, and $9 million, respectively (see Note 19 for additional information on charges taken in 2012). Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets Goodwill and intangible assets deemed to have indefinite lives are not amortized but are subject to annual impairment tests. The Company evaluates goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year or whenever there are indicators that the carrying value of the assets may not be fully recoverable. Definite lived intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives and are reviewed for impairment whenever there are indicators that the carrying value of the assets may not be fully recoverable. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its impairment tests, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Employee Benefit Plans The Company provides substantially all U.S. employees and employees at certain international subsidiaries with pension benefits. Eligible U.S. employees with five or more years of service prior to January 1, 2009 participate in a defined benefit pension plan. Eligible U.S. employees hired on or after January 1, 2009 (and eligible salaried employees with less than five years of service prior to January 1, 2009) participate in a cash balance pension formula. The Company provides eligible U.S. employees who retire under qualifying conditions with access to postretirement health care, at full cost to the retiree (certain employees are grandfathered into subsidized coverage). In order to measure the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans, management makes several estimates and assumptions, including interest rates used to discount certain liabilities, rates of return on assets set aside to fund these plans, rates of compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and anticipated future health care costs. These estimates and assumptions are based on the Companys historical experience combined with managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Management also uses third party actuaries to assist in measuring the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans. If management used different estimates and assumptions regarding these plans, the funded status of the plans could vary significantly, and the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. See Note 17 in Item 8 for additional information. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in: commodity market prices as they relate to the Companys net commodity position, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and prices of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to factors such as changes in weather conditions, crop disease, plantings, government programs and policies, competition, changes in global demand, changes in customer preferences and standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. The Company manages its exposure to adverse price movements of agricultural commodities used for, and produced in, its business operations, by entering into derivative and non derivative contracts which reduce the Companys overall short or long commodity position. Additionally, the Company uses exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the correlation between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contract defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company, from time to time, enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed designated hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold or net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. The Companys commodity position consists of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, related purchase and sales contracts, energy and freight contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts including contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements, net of sales. The fair value of the Companys commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing all of the commodity positions at quoted market prices for the period, where available, or utilizing a close proxy. The Company has established metrics to monitor the amount of market risk exposure, which consist of volumetric limits, and value at risk (VaR) limits. VaR measures the potential loss, at a 95% confidence level, that could be incurred over a one year period. Volumetric limits are monitored daily and VaR calculations and sensitivity analysis are monitored weekly. In addition to measuring the hypothetical loss resulting from an adverse two standard deviation move in market prices (assuming no correlations) over a one year period using VaR, sensitivity analysis is performed measuring the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in market prices. The highest, lowest, and average weekly position for each of the last two years together with the market risk from a hypothetical 10% adverse price change is as follows: 2012 2011 Long/(Short) Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest position $ 1,477 $ 148 $ 2,388 $ 239 Lowest position (383 ) (38 ) 368 37 Average position 546 55 1,644 164 The decline in fair value of the average position for 2012 compared to 2011 was principally the result of the decline in average quantities underlying the weekly commodity position. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) Currencies The Company has consolidated subsidiaries in over 75 countries. For the majority of the Companys subsidiaries located outside the United States, the local currency is the functional currency. To reduce the risks associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, the Company enters into currency exchange contracts to minimize its foreign currency position related to transactions denominated primarily in Euro, British pound, Canadian dollar, and Brazilian real currencies. These currencies represent the major functional or local currencies in which recurring business transactions occur. The Company does not use currency exchange contracts as hedges against amounts permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The currency exchange contracts used are forward contracts, swaps with banks, exchange traded futures contracts, and over the counter options. The changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $7.2 billion at June 30, 2012, and $8.2 billion at June 30, 2011. This decrease is due to the depreciation of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar partially offset by an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The potential loss in fair value, which would principally be recognized in Other Comprehensive Income, resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $722 million and $823 million for 2012 and 2011, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 50 basis points decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2012 2011 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 8,057 $ 9,108 Excess of fair value over carrying value 1,522 842 Market risk 422 333 The decrease in fair value of long term debt in 2012 resulted principally from the reclassification of $1.5 billion in floating rate notes to short term debt partially offset by decreased interest rates. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Critical Accounting Policies The process of preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the carrying values of the Companys assets and liabilities as well as the recognition of revenues and expenses. These estimates and judgments are based on the Companys historical experience and managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Certain of the Companys accounting policies are considered critical, as these policies are important to the depiction of the Companys financial statements and require significant or complex judgment by management. Management has discussed with the Companys Audit Committee the development, selection, disclosure, and application of these critical accounting policies. Following are the accounting policies management considers critical to the Companys financial statements. Fair Value Measurements Inventories and Derivatives Certain of the Companys assets and liabilities as of June 30, 2012 are valued at estimated fair values, including $6.8 billion of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, $3.1 billion of derivative assets, $3.0 billion of derivative liabilities, and $0.3 billion of inventory related payables. Derivative assets and liabilities include forward fixed price purchase and sale contracts for agricultural commodities, forward foreign exchange contracts, and over the counter instruments such as options contracts. The merchandisable agricultural commodities are freely traded, have quoted market prices, and may be sold without significant additional processing. Management estimates fair value for its commodity related assets and liabilities based on exchange quoted prices, adjusted for differences in local markets. The Companys fair value measurements are mainly based on observable market quotations without significant adjustments and are therefore reported as Level 1 or Level 2 within the fair value hierarchy. Level 3 fair value measurements represent fair value estimates where unobservable price components represent 10% or more of the total fair value price. For more information concerning amounts reported as Level 3, see Note 3 in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Changes in the market values of these inventories and contracts are recognized in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. If management used different methods or factors to estimate market value, amounts reported as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. Additionally, if market conditions change subsequent to year end, amounts reported in future periods as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. Derivatives Designated Hedging Activities The Company, from time to time, uses derivative contracts designated as cash flow hedges to fix the purchase price of anticipated volumes of commodities to be purchased and processed in a future month, to fix the purchase price of the Companys anticipated natural gas requirements for certain production facilities, and to fix the sales price of anticipated volumes of ethanol. These designated hedging programs principally relate to the Companys Corn Processing operating segment. The change in the market value of such derivative contracts has historically been, and is expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold and net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. If it is determined that the derivative instruments used are no longer effective at offsetting changes in the price of the hedged item, then the changes in the market value of these exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts would be recorded immediately in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. See Note 4 in Item 8 for additional information. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Investments in Affiliates The Company applies the equity method of accounting for investments over which the Company has the ability to exercise significant influence, including its 16.4% investment in Wilmar. These investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings and are adjusted, where appropriate, for amortizable basis differences between the investment balance and the underlying net assets of the investee. Generally, the minimum ownership threshold for asserting significant influence is 20% ownership of the investee. However, the Company considers all relevant factors in determining its ability to assert significant influence including but not limited to, ownership percentage, board membership, customer and vendor relationships, and other arrangements. If management used a different accounting method for these investments, then the amount of earnings from affiliates the Company recognizes may differ. Income Taxes The Company frequently faces challenges from U.S. and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company records reserves for estimates of potential additional tax owed by the Company. As an example, a subsidiary of the Company received tax assessments in the amount of $570 million consisting of tax, penalty, and interest (adjusted for interest and variation in currency exchange rates) from the Brazilian Federal Revenue Service challenging the deductibility of commodity hedging losses incurred by the Company for tax years 2004, 2006 and 2007. The Company evaluated its tax position regarding these hedging transactions and concluded, based in part upon advice from Brazilian legal counsel, that it was appropriate to recognize the tax benefits of these deductions (see Note 15 in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for additional information). Deferred tax assets represent items to be used as tax deductions or credits in future tax returns, and the related tax benefit has already been recognized in the Companys income statement. The realization of the Companys deferred tax assets is dependent upon future taxable income in specific tax jurisdictions, the timing and amount of which are uncertain. The Company evaluates all available positive and negative evidence including estimated future reversals of existing temporary differences, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies, and recent financial results. Valuation allowances related to these deferred tax assets have been established to the extent the realization of the tax benefit is not likely. To the extent the Company were to favorably resolve matters for which accruals have been established or be required to pay amounts in excess of the aforementioned reserves, the Companys effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be impacted. Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and the Companys share of the undistributed earnings of affiliated corporate joint venture companies accounted for on the equity method amounting to approximately $7.2 billion at June 30, 2012, are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Property, Plant, and Equipment and Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand, changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned factors may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and cash flows of the Companys assets in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its facilities. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment, technology, and companies related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. Assets are written down after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these assets, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. During 2012, 2011, and 2010, impairment charges were $367 million, $2 million, and $9 million, respectively (see Note 19 for additional information on charges taken in 2012). Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets Goodwill and intangible assets deemed to have indefinite lives are not amortized but are subject to annual impairment tests. The Company evaluates goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year or whenever there are indicators that the carrying value of the assets may not be fully recoverable. Definite lived intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives and are reviewed for impairment whenever there are indicators that the carrying value of the assets may not be fully recoverable. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its impairment tests, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Employee Benefit Plans The Company provides substantially all U.S. employees and employees at certain international subsidiaries with pension benefits. Eligible U.S. employees with five or more years of service prior to January 1, 2009 participate in a defined benefit pension plan. Eligible U.S. employees hired on or after January 1, 2009 (and eligible salaried employees with less than five years of service prior to January 1, 2009) participate in a cash balance pension formula. The Company provides eligible U.S. employees who retire under qualifying conditions with access to postretirement health care, at full cost to the retiree (certain employees are grandfathered into subsidized coverage). In order to measure the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans, management makes several estimates and assumptions, including interest rates used to discount certain liabilities, rates of return on assets set aside to fund these plans, rates of compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and anticipated future health care costs. These estimates and assumptions are based on the Companys historical experience combined with managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Management also uses third party actuaries to assist in measuring the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans. If management used different estimates and assumptions regarding these plans, the funded status of the plans could vary significantly, and the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. See Note 17 in Item 8 for additional information. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in: commodity market prices as they relate to the Companys net commodity position, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and prices of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to factors such as changes in weather conditions, crop disease, plantings, government programs and policies, competition, changes in global demand, changes in customer preferences and standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. The Company manages its exposure to adverse price movements of agricultural commodities used for, and produced in, its business operations, by entering into derivative and non derivative contracts which reduce the Companys overall short or long commodity position. Additionally, the Company uses exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the correlation between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contract defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company, from time to time, enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed designated hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold or net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. The Companys commodity position consists of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, related purchase and sales contracts, energy and freight contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts including contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements, net of sales. The fair value of the Companys commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing all of the commodity positions at quoted market prices for the period, where available, or utilizing a close proxy. The Company has established metrics to monitor the amount of market risk exposure, which consist of volumetric limits, and value at risk (VaR) limits. VaR measures the potential loss, at a 95% confidence level, that could be incurred over a one year period. Volumetric limits are monitored daily and VaR calculations and sensitivity analysis are monitored weekly. In addition to measuring the hypothetical loss resulting from an adverse two standard deviation move in market prices (assuming no correlations) over a one year period using VaR, sensitivity analysis is performed measuring the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in market prices. The highest, lowest, and average weekly position for each of the last two years together with the market risk from a hypothetical 10% adverse price change is as follows: 2012 2011 Long/(Short) Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest position $ 1,477 $ 148 $ 2,388 $ 239 Lowest position (383 ) (38 ) 368 37 Average position 546 55 1,644 164 The decline in fair value of the average position for 2012 compared to 2011 was principally the result of the decline in average quantities underlying the weekly commodity position. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) Currencies The Company has consolidated subsidiaries in over 75 countries. For the majority of the Companys subsidiaries located outside the United States, the local currency is the functional currency. To reduce the risks associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, the Company enters into currency exchange contracts to minimize its foreign currency position related to transactions denominated primarily in Euro, British pound, Canadian dollar, and Brazilian real currencies. These currencies represent the major functional or local currencies in which recurring business transactions occur. The Company does not use currency exchange contracts as hedges against amounts permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The currency exchange contracts used are forward contracts, swaps with banks, exchange traded futures contracts, and over the counter options. The changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $7.2 billion at June 30, 2012, and $8.2 billion at June 30, 2011. This decrease is due to the depreciation of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar partially offset by an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The potential loss in fair value, which would principally be recognized in Other Comprehensive Income, resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $722 million and $823 million for 2012 and 2011, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 50 basis points decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2012 2011 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 8,057 $ 9,108 Excess of fair value over carrying value 1,522 842 Market risk 422 333 The decrease in fair value of long term debt in 2012 resulted principally from the reclassification of $1.5 billion in floating rate notes to short term debt partially offset by decreased interest rates. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Investments in Affiliates The Company applies the equity method of accounting for investments over which the Company has the ability to exercise significant influence, including its 16.4% investment in Wilmar. These investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings and are adjusted, where appropriate, for amortizable basis differences between the investment balance and the underlying net assets of the investee. Generally, the minimum ownership threshold for asserting significant influence is 20% ownership of the investee. However, the Company considers all relevant factors in determining its ability to assert significant influence including but not limited to, ownership percentage, board membership, customer and vendor relationships, and other arrangements. If management used a different accounting method for these investments, then the amount of earnings from affiliates the Company recognizes may differ. Income Taxes The Company frequently faces challenges from U.S. and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company records reserves for estimates of potential additional tax owed by the Company. As an example, a subsidiary of the Company received tax assessments in the amount of $570 million consisting of tax, penalty, and interest (adjusted for interest and variation in currency exchange rates) from the Brazilian Federal Revenue Service challenging the deductibility of commodity hedging losses incurred by the Company for tax years 2004, 2006 and 2007. The Company evaluated its tax position regarding these hedging transactions and concluded, based in part upon advice from Brazilian legal counsel, that it was appropriate to recognize the tax benefits of these deductions (see Note 15 in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for additional information). Deferred tax assets represent items to be used as tax deductions or credits in future tax returns, and the related tax benefit has already been recognized in the Companys income statement. The realization of the Companys deferred tax assets is dependent upon future taxable income in specific tax jurisdictions, the timing and amount of which are uncertain. The Company evaluates all available positive and negative evidence including estimated future reversals of existing temporary differences, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies, and recent financial results. Valuation allowances related to these deferred tax assets have been established to the extent the realization of the tax benefit is not likely. To the extent the Company were to favorably resolve matters for which accruals have been established or be required to pay amounts in excess of the aforementioned reserves, the Companys effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be impacted. Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and the Companys share of the undistributed earnings of affiliated corporate joint venture companies accounted for on the equity method amounting to approximately $7.2 billion at June 30, 2012, are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Property, Plant, and Equipment and Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand, changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned factors may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and cash flows of the Companys assets in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its facilities. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment, technology, and companies related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. Assets are written down after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these assets, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. During 2012, 2011, and 2010, impairment charges were $367 million, $2 million, and $9 million, respectively (see Note 19 for additional information on charges taken in 2012). Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets Goodwill and intangible assets deemed to have indefinite lives are not amortized but are subject to annual impairment tests. The Company evaluates goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year or whenever there are indicators that the carrying value of the assets may not be fully recoverable. Definite lived intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives and are reviewed for impairment whenever there are indicators that the carrying value of the assets may not be fully recoverable. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its impairment tests, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Employee Benefit Plans The Company provides substantially all U.S. employees and employees at certain international subsidiaries with pension benefits. Eligible U.S. employees with five or more years of service prior to January 1, 2009 participate in a defined benefit pension plan. Eligible U.S. employees hired on or after January 1, 2009 (and eligible salaried employees with less than five years of service prior to January 1, 2009) participate in a cash balance pension formula. The Company provides eligible U.S. employees who retire under qualifying conditions with access to postretirement health care, at full cost to the retiree (certain employees are grandfathered into subsidized coverage). In order to measure the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans, management makes several estimates and assumptions, including interest rates used to discount certain liabilities, rates of return on assets set aside to fund these plans, rates of compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and anticipated future health care costs. These estimates and assumptions are based on the Companys historical experience combined with managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Management also uses third party actuaries to assist in measuring the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans. If management used different estimates and assumptions regarding these plans, the funded status of the plans could vary significantly, and the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. See Note 17 in Item 8 for additional information. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in: commodity market prices as they relate to the Companys net commodity position, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and prices of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to factors such as changes in weather conditions, crop disease, plantings, government programs and policies, competition, changes in global demand, changes in customer preferences and standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. The Company manages its exposure to adverse price movements of agricultural commodities used for, and produced in, its business operations, by entering into derivative and non derivative contracts which reduce the Companys overall short or long commodity position. Additionally, the Company uses exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the correlation between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contract defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company, from time to time, enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed designated hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold or net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. The Companys commodity position consists of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, related purchase and sales contracts, energy and freight contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts including contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements, net of sales. The fair value of the Companys commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing all of the commodity positions at quoted market prices for the period, where available, or utilizing a close proxy. The Company has established metrics to monitor the amount of market risk exposure, which consist of volumetric limits, and value at risk (VaR) limits. VaR measures the potential loss, at a 95% confidence level, that could be incurred over a one year period. Volumetric limits are monitored daily and VaR calculations and sensitivity analysis are monitored weekly. In addition to measuring the hypothetical loss resulting from an adverse two standard deviation move in market prices (assuming no correlations) over a one year period using VaR, sensitivity analysis is performed measuring the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in market prices. The highest, lowest, and average weekly position for each of the last two years together with the market risk from a hypothetical 10% adverse price change is as follows: 2012 2011 Long/(Short) Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest position $ 1,477 $ 148 $ 2,388 $ 239 Lowest position (383 ) (38 ) 368 37 Average position 546 55 1,644 164 The decline in fair value of the average position for 2012 compared to 2011 was principally the result of the decline in average quantities underlying the weekly commodity position. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) Currencies The Company has consolidated subsidiaries in over 75 countries. For the majority of the Companys subsidiaries located outside the United States, the local currency is the functional currency. To reduce the risks associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, the Company enters into currency exchange contracts to minimize its foreign currency position related to transactions denominated primarily in Euro, British pound, Canadian dollar, and Brazilian real currencies. These currencies represent the major functional or local currencies in which recurring business transactions occur. The Company does not use currency exchange contracts as hedges against amounts permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The currency exchange contracts used are forward contracts, swaps with banks, exchange traded futures contracts, and over the counter options. The changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $7.2 billion at June 30, 2012, and $8.2 billion at June 30, 2011. This decrease is due to the depreciation of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar partially offset by an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The potential loss in fair value, which would principally be recognized in Other Comprehensive Income, resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $722 million and $823 million for 2012 and 2011, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 50 basis points decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2012 2011 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 8,057 $ 9,108 Excess of fair value over carrying value 1,522 842 Market risk 422 333 The decrease in fair value of long term debt in 2012 resulted principally from the reclassification of $1.5 billion in floating rate notes to short term debt partially offset by decreased interest rates. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Property, Plant, and Equipment and Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand, changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned factors may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and cash flows of the Companys assets in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its facilities. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment, technology, and companies related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. Assets are written down after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these assets, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. During 2012, 2011, and 2010, impairment charges were $367 million, $2 million, and $9 million, respectively (see Note 19 for additional information on charges taken in 2012). Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets Goodwill and intangible assets deemed to have indefinite lives are not amortized but are subject to annual impairment tests. The Company evaluates goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year or whenever there are indicators that the carrying value of the assets may not be fully recoverable. Definite lived intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives and are reviewed for impairment whenever there are indicators that the carrying value of the assets may not be fully recoverable. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its impairment tests, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Employee Benefit Plans The Company provides substantially all U.S. employees and employees at certain international subsidiaries with pension benefits. Eligible U.S. employees with five or more years of service prior to January 1, 2009 participate in a defined benefit pension plan. Eligible U.S. employees hired on or after January 1, 2009 (and eligible salaried employees with less than five years of service prior to January 1, 2009) participate in a cash balance pension formula. The Company provides eligible U.S. employees who retire under qualifying conditions with access to postretirement health care, at full cost to the retiree (certain employees are grandfathered into subsidized coverage). In order to measure the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans, management makes several estimates and assumptions, including interest rates used to discount certain liabilities, rates of return on assets set aside to fund these plans, rates of compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and anticipated future health care costs. These estimates and assumptions are based on the Companys historical experience combined with managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Management also uses third party actuaries to assist in measuring the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans. If management used different estimates and assumptions regarding these plans, the funded status of the plans could vary significantly, and the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. See Note 17 in Item 8 for additional information. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in: commodity market prices as they relate to the Companys net commodity position, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and prices of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to factors such as changes in weather conditions, crop disease, plantings, government programs and policies, competition, changes in global demand, changes in customer preferences and standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. The Company manages its exposure to adverse price movements of agricultural commodities used for, and produced in, its business operations, by entering into derivative and non derivative contracts which reduce the Companys overall short or long commodity position. Additionally, the Company uses exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the correlation between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contract defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company, from time to time, enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed designated hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold or net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. The Companys commodity position consists of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, related purchase and sales contracts, energy and freight contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts including contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements, net of sales. The fair value of the Companys commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing all of the commodity positions at quoted market prices for the period, where available, or utilizing a close proxy. The Company has established metrics to monitor the amount of market risk exposure, which consist of volumetric limits, and value at risk (VaR) limits. VaR measures the potential loss, at a 95% confidence level, that could be incurred over a one year period. Volumetric limits are monitored daily and VaR calculations and sensitivity analysis are monitored weekly. In addition to measuring the hypothetical loss resulting from an adverse two standard deviation move in market prices (assuming no correlations) over a one year period using VaR, sensitivity analysis is performed measuring the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in market prices. The highest, lowest, and average weekly position for each of the last two years together with the market risk from a hypothetical 10% adverse price change is as follows: 2012 2011 Long/(Short) Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest position $ 1,477 $ 148 $ 2,388 $ 239 Lowest position (383 ) (38 ) 368 37 Average position 546 55 1,644 164 The decline in fair value of the average position for 2012 compared to 2011 was principally the result of the decline in average quantities underlying the weekly commodity position. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) Currencies The Company has consolidated subsidiaries in over 75 countries. For the majority of the Companys subsidiaries located outside the United States, the local currency is the functional currency. To reduce the risks associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, the Company enters into currency exchange contracts to minimize its foreign currency position related to transactions denominated primarily in Euro, British pound, Canadian dollar, and Brazilian real currencies. These currencies represent the major functional or local currencies in which recurring business transactions occur. The Company does not use currency exchange contracts as hedges against amounts permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The currency exchange contracts used are forward contracts, swaps with banks, exchange traded futures contracts, and over the counter options. The changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $7.2 billion at June 30, 2012, and $8.2 billion at June 30, 2011. This decrease is due to the depreciation of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar partially offset by an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The potential loss in fair value, which would principally be recognized in Other Comprehensive Income, resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $722 million and $823 million for 2012 and 2011, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 50 basis points decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2012 2011 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 8,057 $ 9,108 Excess of fair value over carrying value 1,522 842 Market risk 422 333 The decrease in fair value of long term debt in 2012 resulted principally from the reclassification of $1.5 billion in floating rate notes to short term debt partially offset by decreased interest rates. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Company Overview This MD&A should be read in conjunction with the accompanying consolidated financial statements. The Company is principally engaged in procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. The Company uses its significant global asset base to originate and transport agricultural commodities, connecting to markets in more than 160 countries. The Company also processes corn, oilseeds, wheat and cocoa into products for food, animal feed, chemical and energy uses. The Company uses its global asset network, business acumen, and its relationships with suppliers and customers to efficiently connect the harvest to the home thereby generating returns for our shareholders, principally from margins earned on these activities. The Companys operations are organized, managed and classified into three reportable business segments: Oilseeds Processing, Corn Processing, and Agricultural Services. Each of these segments is organized based upon the nature of products and services offered. The Companys remaining operations are not reportable segments, as defined by the applicable accounting standard, and are classified as Other. During fiscal 2012, the Company reorganized and streamlined its business unit reporting structure and broadened management spans of control. Starting with this annual report on Form 10 K the Oilseeds Processing reportable segment includes cocoa processing operations while the Agricultural Services reportable segment includes wheat processing operations. The Corn Processing reportable segment, which includes sweeteners and starches and bioproducts, remains unchanged. The Companys remaining operations, which primarily include its financial business units, will continue to be classified as Other. Previously, cocoa and wheat processing operations were included in Other. Also, during fiscal 2012, the Company discontinued the allocation of interest expense from Corporate to the operating segments. Throughout this annual report on Form 10 K, prior periods have been reclassified to conform to current period segment presentation. The Oilseeds Processing segment includes global activities related to the origination, merchandising, crushing, and further processing of oilseeds such as soybeans and soft seeds (cottonseed, sunflower seed, canola, rapeseed, and flaxseed) into vegetable oils and protein meals. Oilseeds products produced and marketed by the Company include ingredients for the food, feed, energy, and industrial products industries. Crude vegetable oils produced by the segments crushing activities are sold as is or are further processed by refining, blending, bleaching, and deodorizing into salad oils. Salad oils are sold as is or are further processed by hydrogenating and or interesterifying into margarine, shortening, and other food products. Partially refined oils are used to produce biodiesel or are sold to other manufacturers for use in chemicals, paints, and other industrial products. Oilseed protein meals are principally sold to third parties to be used as ingredients in commercial livestock and poultry feeds. In Europe and South America, the Oilseeds Processing segment includes origination and merchandising activities as adjuncts to its oilseeds processing assets. These activities include a network of grain elevators, port facilities, and transportation assets used to buy, store, clean, and transport grains and oilseeds. The Oilseeds Processing segment produces natural health and nutrition products and other specialty food and feed ingredients. The Oilseeds Processing segment is a major supplier of peanuts and peanut derived ingredients to both the U.S. and export markets. In North America, cottonseed flour is produced and sold primarily to the pharmaceutical industry and cotton cellulose pulp is manufactured and sold to the chemical, paper, and filter markets. In South America, the Oilseeds Processing segment operates fertilizer blending facilities. The Oilseeds Processing segment also includes activities related to the procurement, transportation and processing of cocoa beans into cocoa liquor, cocoa butter, cocoa powder, chocolate, and various compounds in North America, South America, Europe, Asia, and Africa for the food processing industry. The Oilseeds Processing segment also includes the Companys share of the results of its equity investment in Wilmar and its share of results for its Stratas Foods LLC and Edible Oils Limited joint ventures. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) The Companys Corn Processing segment is engaged in corn wet milling and dry milling activities, with its asset base primarily located in the central part of the United States. The Corn Processing segment converts corn into sweeteners and starches, and bioproducts. Its products include ingredients used in the food and beverage industry including sweeteners, starch, syrup, glucose, and dextrose. Dextrose and starch are used by the Corn Processing segment as feedstocks for its bioproducts operations. By fermentation of dextrose, the Corn Processing segment produces alcohol, amino acids, and other specialty food and animal feed ingredients. Ethyl alcohol is produced by the Company for industrial use as ethanol or as beverage grade. Ethanol, in gasoline, increases octane and is used as an extender and oxygenate. Bioproducts also include amino acids such as lysine and threonine that are vital compounds used in swine feeds to produce leaner animals and in poultry feeds to enhance the speed and efficiency of poultry production. Corn gluten feed and meal, as well as distillers grains, are produced for use as animal feed ingredients. Corn germ, a by product of the wet milling process, is further processed into vegetable oil and protein meal. Other Corn Processing products include citric and lactic acids, lactates, sorbitol, xanthan gum, and glycols which are used in various food and industrial products. The Corn Processing segment includes the activities of a propylene and ethylene glycol facility and the Companys Brazilian sugarcane ethanol plant and related operations. In fiscal 2012, the Company ended its commercial alliance with Metabolix, Inc. As a result of this decision, Telles LLC, the sales and marketing commercial alliance created to commercialize Mirel, a bio based plastic, will be dissolved and the production of Mirel on behalf of Telles LLC has ended. This segment also includes the Companys share of the results of its equity investments in Almidones Mexicanos S.A., Eaststarch C.V., and Red Star Yeast Company LLC. The Agricultural Services segment utilizes its extensive U.S. grain elevator, global transportation network, and port operations to buy, store, clean, and transport agricultural commodities, such as oilseeds, corn, wheat, milo, oats, rice, and barley, and resells these commodities primarily as food and feed ingredients and as raw materials for the agricultural processing industry. Agricultural Services grain sourcing, handling, and transportation network provides reliable and efficient services to the Companys customers and agricultural processing operations. Agricultural Services transportation network capabilities include barge, ocean going vessel, truck, and rail freight services. Agricultural Services segment also includes the activities related to the processing of wheat into wheat flour, the processing and distribution of formula feeds, animal health and nutrition products, and the procurement, processing, and distribution of edible beans. The Agricultural Services segment includes the activities of Alfred C. Toepfer International, an 80% owned global merchant of agricultural commodities and processed products. The Agricultural Services segment also includes the Companys share of the results of its Kalama Export Company joint venture and its equity investment in Gruma S.A.B. de C.V. Other includes the Companys remaining operations, primarily its financial business units, related principally to futures commission merchant activities and captive insurance. On September 30, 2011, the Company sold a majority ownership interest of the Bank. The Bank was deconsolidated from the Companys consolidated financial statements in the first quarter of fiscal 2012 resulting in no material effect to ADMs earnings. The Company accounts for its remaining ownership interest in the Bank under the equity method. Corporate results principally include the impact of LIFO related inventory adjustments, unallocated corporate expenses, and interest cost net of investment income. Prior to January 1, 2012, Corporate results included the after tax elimination of income attributable to mandatorily redeemable interests in consolidated subsidiaries. Upon expiration of the put options related to these interests, the results were included in noncontrolling interest. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Operating Performance Indicators The Companys oilseeds processing and agricultural services operations are principally agricultural commodity based businesses where changes in selling prices move in relationship to changes in prices of the commodity based agricultural raw materials. Therefore, changes in agricultural commodity prices have relatively equal impacts on both net sales and other operating income and cost of products sold. Thus, changes in margins and gross profit of these businesses do not necessarily correspond to the changes in net sales and other operating income amounts. The Companys corn processing operations and certain other food and animal feed processing operations also utilize agricultural commodities (or products derived from agricultural commodities) as raw materials. In these operations, agricultural commodity market price changes can result in significant fluctuations in cost of products sold, and such price changes cannot necessarily be passed directly through to the selling price of the finished products. The Company has consolidated subsidiaries in over 75 countries. For the majority of the Companys subsidiaries located outside the United States, the local currency is the functional currency. Revenues and expenses denominated in foreign currencies are translated into U.S. dollars at the weighted average exchange rates for the applicable periods. For the majority of the Companys business activities in Brazil, the functional currency is the U.S. dollar; however, certain transactions, including taxes, occur in local currency and require conversion to the functional currency. Fluctuations in the exchange rates of foreign currencies, primarily the Euro, British pound, Canadian dollar, and Brazilian real, as compared to the U.S. dollar can result in corresponding fluctuations in the U.S. dollar value of revenues and expenses reported by the Company. The Company measures the performance of its business segments using key financial metrics such as segment operating profit, return on invested capital, and cost per metric ton. The Companys operating results can vary significantly due to changes in factors such as fluctuations in energy prices, weather conditions, crop plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand, general global economic conditions, changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. Due to these unpredictable factors, the Company does not provide forward looking information in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 2012 Compared to 2011 As an agricultural commodity based business, the Company is subject to a variety of market factors which affect the Companys operating results. From a demand perspective, global protein meal consumption has continued to grow although at a slower rate. Excess industry crushing production capacity has pressured oilseeds margins, and the Company has adjusted production rates regionally to balance supply with current market demand. Biodiesel markets supported global demand for refined and crude vegetable oils. In the U.S., high biodiesel inventories associated with the December 31, 2011, expiration of blenders incentives dampened margins in the second half of the fiscal year. U.S. corn sweetener exports continue to support sales volumes and margins. Ethanol sales volumes were supported by favorable gasoline blending economics in the U.S. However, excess industry production of ethanol, together with recently reduced U.S. ethanol export demand, have negatively impacted ethanol margins. From a supply perspective, crop supplies in certain key growing regions at the beginning of this fiscal year, including South America and the Black Sea region, were adequate, but a smaller than normal harvest in North America last fall resulted in low U.S. carryover stocks for corn and soybeans. Because of the smaller than expected current year South American harvest, global supplies of corn and soybeans are more dependent on this years North American harvest. While plantings of corn increased this year in the U.S., the drought conditions late in the fiscal year have decreased expectations for the size of the current year harvest. These factors, combined with concerns about the European debt situation and ongoing geopolitical uncertainties, contributed to volatile commodity market price movements during this fiscal year. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Net earnings attributable to controlling interests decreased $0.8 billion to $1.2 billion. Segment operating profit declined $1.6 billion to $2.5 billion amid more challenging conditions generally affecting all reportable segments. Segment operating profit in fiscal 2012 included $349 million of asset impairment charges and exit costs comprised of $335 million to exit the Companys Clinton, IA, bioplastics plant and $14 million to shut down its Walhalla, ND, ethanol dry mill. Earnings before income taxes included a credit of $10 million from the effect on LIFO inventory valuation reserves, including the liquidation of LIFO inventory layers, partially offset by increasing agricultural commodity prices, compared to charges of $368 million in the prior year. Fiscal 2012 unallocated corporate expenses included $71 million of charges related to the Companys global workforce reduction program. Income taxes decreased $0.5 billion due to lower earnings before income taxes and a lower effective income tax rate. The Companys effective income tax rate declined to 29.6% compared to 33.1% in the prior year primarily due to income tax benefits associated with foreign currency re measurement of non monetary assets partially offset by a geographic mix of earnings that shifted more to foreign jurisdictions. Analysis of Statements of Earnings Net sales and other operating income by segment are as follows: 2012 2011 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing and Origination $ 18,794 $ 16,518 $ 2,276 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel, and Other 11,628 9,476 2,152 Cocoa and Other 3,715 3,652 63 Asia 578 262 316 Total Oilseeds Processing 34,715 29,908 4,807 Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 4,793 3,766 1,027 Bioproducts 7,321 6,142 1,179 Total Corn Processing 12,114 9,908 2,206 Agricultural Services Merchandising and Handling 37,631 36,852 779 Transportation 269 222 47 Milling and Other 4,182 3,676 506 Total Agricultural Services 42,082 40,750 1,332 Other Financial 127 110 17 Total Other 127 110 17 Total $ 89,038 $ 80,676 $ 8,362 Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Net sales and other operating income increased $7.0 billion due to higher average selling prices, primarily related to higher underlying commodity costs, and $2.1 billion due to increased sales volumes, including sales volumes from acquisitions, partially offset by changes in foreign currency exchange rates of $0.7 billion. Oilseeds Processing sales increased 16% to $34.7 billion due principally to higher average selling prices of vegetable oils, merchandised commodities, protein meal, and biodiesel and increased sales volumes of biodiesel, protein meal, and peanuts, in part due to the acquisition of Golden Peanut in December 2010. Corn Processing sales increased 22% to $12.1 billion due principally to higher average selling prices of ethanol and sweeteners as well as higher sales volumes of sugar and ethanol. Agricultural Services sales increased 3% to $42.1 billion, due to higher average selling prices of corn and wheat flour partially offset by lower sales volumes, in part due to lower export volumes from the U.S. Cost of products sold increased 12% to $85.4 billion due principally to higher costs of agricultural commodities and, to a lesser extent, increased sales volumes. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates reduced current year cost of products sold by $0.7 billion. Manufacturing expenses increased $0.2 billion due to higher costs for maintenance, employee and benefit related expenses, energy, and chemicals. These higher costs were primarily due to higher production volumes, acquisitions, and higher unit costs for fuels and certain chemicals. Partially offsetting these higher costs was lower depreciation expense, in part due to the Companys change in estimated service lives for machinery and equipment during the second quarter of fiscal 2011. Selling, general, and administrative expenses remained steady at $1.6 billion. Loss provisions mainly due to an unfavorable arbitration award in the Companys Agricultural Services operating segment were partially offset by lower overhead expenses. Asset impairment, exit, and restructuring costs of $437 million were comprised of $349 million in the Corn Processing segment related to the Companys exit from its Clinton, IA, bioplastics business and ethanol dry mill in Walhalla, ND, $71 million in Corporate for the global workforce reduction, and $17 million in Corporate for investment writedown and other facility exit related costs. Interest expense decreased 9% to $441 million primarily due to lower long term debt balances, higher interest expense capitalized on construction projects in progress, and lower interest expense related to uncertain income tax positions. Equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates decreased 13% to $472 million principally due to decreased equity earnings from the Companys equity investee, Gruma, which included a $78 million gain in the prior year related to Grumas disposal of certain assets. Interest income declined 18% to $112 million primarily related to the sale and deconsolidation of the Bank, effective September 30, 2011. Other income net declined $113 million to $17 million due primarily to the absence of income recognized in the prior year period of $71 million for the Golden Peanut Gain and $30 million for gains on interest rate swaps. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Operating profit by segment is as follows: 2012 2011 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing and Origination $ 641 $ 925 $ (284 ) Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel, and Other 295 342 (47 ) Cocoa and Other 183 240 (57 ) Asia 183 183 Total Oilseeds Processing 1,302 1,690 (388 ) Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 335 330 5 Bioproducts (74 ) 749 (823 ) Total Corn Processing 261 1,079 (818 ) Agricultural Services Merchandising and Handling 493 807 (314 ) Transportation 125 117 8 Milling and Other 329 399 (70 ) Total Agricultural Services 947 1,323 (376 ) Other Financial 15 39 (24 ) Total Other 15 39 (24 ) Total Segment Operating Profit 2,525 4,131 (1,606 ) Corporate (see below) (760 ) (1,116 ) 356 Earnings Before Income Taxes $ 1,765 $ 3,015 $ (1,250 ) Corporate results are as follows: 2012 2011 Change (In millions) LIFO credit (charge) $ 10 $ (368 ) $ 378 Interest expense net (423 ) (445 ) 22 Unallocated corporate costs (360 ) (326 ) (34 ) Charges on early extinguishment of debt (4 ) (8 ) 4 Gains (losses) on interest rate swaps 30 (30 ) Other 17 1 16 Total Corporate $ (760 ) $ (1,116 ) $ 356 Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Oilseeds Processing operating profit decreased $0.4 billion to $1.3 billion. Crushing and Origination operating profit decreased $284 million to $641 million primarily due to weaker results in European softseeds, lower results in North American softseeds, and lower North American positioning results. Partially offsetting these lower results, were higher grain origination results in South America driven by higher volumes and favorable positioning. Poor European softseeds results were driven by a small prior year rapeseed crop, positioning losses, and weaker demand for protein meal and oils. North American softseed results declined primarily as a result of lower margins generated from a tight cottonseed supply. Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel, and Other results declined $47 million to $295 million due primarily to declines in biodiesel margins in South America and Europe and lower margins for specialty fats and oils in Europe. These declines were partially offset by improved North American protein specialties and natural health and nutrition results due to higher margins and volumes. Cocoa and Other results declined $57 million to $183 million. Current year results in Cocoa and Other were reduced by $100 million for net unrealized mark to market losses related to certain forward purchase and sales commitments accounted for as derivatives. Last year included $9 million of net unrealized mark to market losses. Excluding these timing effects, cocoa results improved in the current year driven by improved press margins caused by strong cocoa powder demand. The prior year included the $71 million Golden Peanut Gain which was partially offset this year by higher earnings in the Companys peanut business in part due to the first full year of consolidated results for Golden Peanut being reported by the Company in fiscal 2012. Asia results remained steady at $183 million, principally reflecting the Companys share of its results from equity investee, Wilmar. Corn Processing operating results decreased $818 million to $261 million due principally to poor ethanol margins and $349 million in asset impairment charges and exit costs. Excluding the asset impairment and exit costs related to the Companys bioplastics business and Walhalla, ND, ethanol dry grind facility, Corn Processing operating profit of $610 million in the current year represents a decline of $469 million compared to the prior year. Processed volumes were up 5 percent while net corn costs increased compared to last year. Sweeteners and Starches operating profit increased $5 million to $335 million, as higher average selling prices more than offset higher net corn costs. Bioproducts profit decreased $823 million to a loss of $74 million, including the $349 million asset impairment and exit charges. Lower ethanol margins were caused by excess supply as previously offline production restarted while industry demand declined, in part due to slowing export demand. Prior year bioproducts results were enhanced by favorable corn ownership positions, which lowered net corn costs in that period. Bioproducts results in the prior year were negatively impacted by startup costs of $94 million related to the Companys new dry grind ethanol, bioplastic, and glycol plants. Agricultural Services operating profits decreased $376 million to $947 million. Merchandising and Handling earnings decreased primarily due to lower results from U.S. operations. Lower sales volumes were principally the result of the relatively higher cost of U.S. grains and oilseeds in the global market due to lower stocks caused by a smaller U.S. harvest in 2011. This relatively weaker position led to reduced U.S. grain exports. In the prior year, Merchandising and Handling results were positively impacted by higher quantities of U.S. grain exports by the Company. In addition, fiscal 2012 included $40 million of increased loss provisions mainly due to an unfavorable arbitration award. Earnings from Transportation were steady. Last years operating results in Milling and Other operations included a $78 million gain related to Grumas disposal of certain assets. Other financial operating profit decreased $24 million to $15 million mainly due to higher loss provisions at the Companys captive insurance subsidiary related to property and crop risk reserves. Corporate expenses declined $356 million to $760 million this year. The effects of a liquidation of LIFO inventory layers partially offset by increasing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations resulted in a credit of $10 million in the current year compared to a charge of $368 million in the prior year primarily due to higher prices. Corporate interest expense decreased $22 million primarily due to lower interest expense on lower long term debt balances. Unallocated corporate costs include $71 million of costs related to the global workforce reduction program. Excluding these costs, unallocated corporate costs declined $37 million due primarily to lower administrative costs. Corporate other income increased due to higher investment income partially offset by $17 million for investment writedown and facility exit related costs. Also, in the prior year the Company recognized $30 million of gains on interest rate swaps. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) 2011 Compared to 2010 As an agricultural commodity based business, the Company is subject to a variety of market factors which affect the Companys operating results. In 2011, prices for certain agricultural commodities were higher in response to growing global demand and tighter crop supplies. The projections of lower 2011 carryover stocks for certain key commodities, coupled with regional crop supply dislocations for certain commodities, also led to high commodity price volatility. Global demand for agricultural commodities grew in 2011, resulting in increased sales volumes for most of the Companys products. The large 2010 North American harvest resulted in global merchandising, handling, and processing opportunities. Protein meal markets for commercial livestock producers in the U.S., particularly poultry producers, faced challenging conditions. Biodiesel markets in Europe and South America, together with the 2011 extension of the U.S. biodiesel blenders credit, helped support global demand for refined and crude vegetable oils. Sweeteners and starches demand remained strong in 2011 due primarily to U.S. exports of sweeteners and improved demand for industrial starches. Ethanol sales volumes, including increased volumes as the Companys new dry mills ramped up, were supported by favorable gasoline blending economics in the U.S. and good export demand. Net earnings increased $106 million to $2.0 billion due principally to a $794 million increase in segment operating profit partially offset by a negative impact from changing LIFO inventory valuations and higher income taxes. In 2011, the Company successfully managed through significant increases in market prices for most of its agricultural commodity raw materials, resulting in increased segment operating profit. Earnings before income taxes includes charges of $368 million from the effect of increasing agricultural commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuation reserves, compared to credits of $42 million in the prior year caused by decreasing agricultural commodity prices. Income taxes increased $331 million due to a higher effective income tax rate and higher earnings before income taxes. The effective income tax rate of 33.1% for 2011 was the result of changes in the geographic mix of earnings and unfavorable specific tax items. The fully diluted earnings per share calculation for 2011 was impacted by the completion of the Companys debt remarketing related to the $1.75 billion Equity Units. While the approximately 44 million new common shares related to the $1.75 billion Equity Units were not issued until June 1, 2011, the if converted method of accounting for diluted earnings per share required diluted EPS to be calculated as if the Company issued the shares on January 1, 2011, and this assumption resulted in a dilutive impact of $0.04 on earnings per share (See Note 11 in the accompanying consolidated financial statements). Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Analysis of Statements of Earnings Net sales and other operating income by segment are as follows: 2011 2010 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing and Origination $ 16,518 $ 14,411 $ 2,107 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel, and Other 9,476 7,133 2,343 Cocoa and Other 3,652 2,678 974 Asia 262 190 72 Total Oilseeds Processing 29,908 24,412 5,496 Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 3,766 3,264 502 Bioproducts 6,142 4,610 1,532 Total Corn Processing 9,908 7,874 2,034 Agricultural Services Merchandising and Handling 36,852 25,751 11,101 Transportation 222 167 55 Milling and Other 3,676 3,383 293 Total Agricultural Services 40,750 29,301 11,449 Other Financial 110 95 15 Total Other 110 95 15 Total $ 80,676 $ 61,682 $ 18,994 Net sales and other operating income increased $19.0 billion, or 31%, to $80.7 billion. Net sales and other operating income increased $14.2 billion due to higher average selling prices, primarily related to higher underlying commodity costs, and increased $4.8 billion due to increased sales volumes, including sales volumes from acquisitions. Agricultural Services sales increased 39% to $40.8 billion due to higher average selling prices of agricultural commodities and higher global sales volumes. Oilseeds Processing sales increased 23% to $29.9 billion primarily due to higher average selling prices for vegetable oils, soybeans, biodiesel, and protein meal. Corn Processing sales increased 26% to $9.9 billion due to higher average selling prices and increased sales volumes of ethanol and other corn products, in part due to the Companys two new ethanol dry mills coming on line. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Cost of products sold increased 32% to $76.4 billion due to higher costs of agricultural commodities, negative impacts resulting from changes in LIFO inventory valuations, and higher manufacturing costs. Cost of products sold includes charges of $368 million from the effect of increasing agricultural commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuation reserves, compared to credits of $42 million in the prior year caused by decreasing agricultural commodity prices. Manufacturing expenses increased $410 million due primarily to higher processed volumes, including the volumes of the Companys new greenfield operations coming on line, and higher average unit costs for certain chemicals and fuels used in the Companys processing and transportation operations. During the second quarter of fiscal 2011, the Company updated its estimates for service lives of certain of its machinery and equipment assets. This change in estimate resulted in a $133 million decrease in depreciation expense compared to the amount of depreciation expense the Company would have recorded using the previously estimated service lives. Manufacturing expenses included $94 million in fiscal 2011 related to the start up of new plants compared to $110 million in the prior year. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased 15% to $1.6 billion. This increase was due to higher employee related costs and higher administrative expenses. Higher employee related costs principally reflect the increase in number of employees during the year and included higher salaries and wages, higher accruals for performance based compensation and higher benefit expenses. Equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates declined 3% to $542 million. The decline in earnings from the Companys equity investee, Wilmar, was partially offset by higher earnings of the Companys equity investee, Gruma, in part due to a gain on Grumas disposition of certain assets. Interest income increased 8% to $136 million principally resulting from higher interest earned on advances to affiliates. Interest expense increased 14% to $482 million. Interest costs capitalized as a component of major construction projects in progress was $7 million compared to $75 million in the prior year. Interest incurred on long term debt declined $24 million as a result of debt retirements while interest incurred on short term debt increased $15 million due to higher average borrowings driven by higher working capital requirements. Other (income) expense net increased $255 million primarily due to the $71 million gain resulting from the revaluation of the Companys previously held equity interest in Golden Peanut upon acquisition of the remaining 50% interest, gains on interest rate swaps of $30 million compared to a loss of $59 million in the prior year, and a decrease in charges related to early extinguishment of debt from $75 million in the prior year to $15 million in the current year. Income taxes increased $331 million to $997 million due to a higher effective income tax rate and higher pretax earnings. The Companys effective income tax rate increased to 33.1% during 2011 compared to 25.8% in fiscal 2010. The increase in the 2011 rate was primarily due to a geographic mix of earnings that shifted more to the U.S., a higher U.S. effective income tax rate, income tax expense associated with foreign currency re measurement of non monetary assets in Brazil, and adjustments to deferred income tax balances. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Operating profit by segment is as follows: 2011 2010 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing and Origination $ 925 $ 834 $ 91 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel, and Other 342 300 42 Cocoa and Other 240 126 114 Asia 183 291 (108 ) Total Oilseeds Processing 1,690 1,551 139 Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 330 538 (208 ) Bioproducts 749 200 549 Total Corn Processing 1,079 738 341 Agricultural Services Merchandising and Handling 807 562 245 Transportation 117 96 21 Milling and Other 399 344 55 Total Agricultural Services 1,323 1,002 321 Other Financial 39 46 (7 ) Total Other 39 46 (7 ) Total Segment Operating Profit 4,131 3,337 794 Corporate (see below) (1,116 ) (752 ) (364 ) Earnings Before Income Taxes $ 3,015 $ 2,585 $ 430 Corporate results are as follows: 2011 2010 Change (In millions) LIFO credit $ (368 ) $ 42 $ (410 ) Interest expense net (445 ) (381 ) (64 ) Unallocated corporate costs (326 ) (266 ) (60 ) Charges on early extinguishment of debt (8 ) (75 ) 67 Gains (losses) on interest rate swaps 30 (59 ) 89 Other 1 (13 ) 14 Total Corporate $ (1,116 ) $ (752 ) $ (364 ) Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Oilseeds Processing operating profit increased 9% to $1.7 billion. Crushing and Origination results increased $91 million to $925 million. Improved North American crushing results, particularly for cotton seed and canola, were partially offset by lower crushing margins in South America and Europe. Margins globally were enhanced by good positioning and by improved origination results. In South America, fertilizer results improved due to higher margins and volumes. Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel and Other results increased $42 million to $342 million due principally to higher packaged oils margins and improved North American and European biodiesel results. Cocoa and Other results increased $114 million to $240 million primarily due to the $71 million gain on the revaluation of the Companys equity interest in Golden Peanut and higher peanut profits as a result of the December 31, 2010 acquisition of the remaining 50% interest of Golden Peanut. Asia results decreased $108 million due principally to decreased earnings from the Companys equity investee, Wilmar. Corn Processing operating profit increased 46% to $1.1 billion, which includes favorable impacts from ownership positions, which were allocated to sweeteners and starches and bioproducts based on total grind. Sweeteners and Starches operating profit decreased $208 million to $330 million due to higher net corn costs partially offset by higher sales volumes. Sales volumes increased due to U.S. export shipments of sweeteners and improved U.S. demand for industrial starches. Bioproducts operating profit improved $549 million primarily due to higher ethanol sales volumes and higher average selling prices leading to increased ethanol and lysine margins. Bioproducts margins were also enhanced by favorable corn ownership positions. Bioproducts results included startup costs related to the Companys new plants of $94 million in 2011 compared to $107 million in the prior year. Agricultural Services operating profit increased 32% to $1.3 billion. Merchandising and Handling results increased due to higher corn and wheat sales volumes and higher margins. A large 2010 U.S. harvest combined with strong international demand resulted in higher U.S. export shipments. Merchandising and Handling results in 2011 included an insurance recovery of $67 million related to property damage and business interruption resulting from an October 2008 explosion at the Companys Destrehan, LA, export facility. International merchandising results were weaker in part due to positions impacted by unexpected shifts in crop supply caused by weather conditions and government actions in the Black Sea region. Transportation results increased $21 million to $117 million primarily due to higher barge freight rates and higher barge utilization levels, in part due to higher U.S. export volumes. Milling and Other results improved due principally to increased equity earnings from the Companys equity investee, Gruma which include a $78 million gain related to Grumas disposal of certain assets. Other financial operating profit decreased 15% to $39 million primarily due to higher captive insurance loss provisions principally related to a $67 million loss related to the Companys Destrehan, LA, export facility insurance claim. Corporate results decreased $364 million primarily due to the negative impact from changing LIFO inventory valuations and higher interest expense net. The effects of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory reserves resulted in charges of $368 million compared to credits of $42 million for the prior year. Corporate interest expense increased $64 million mostly due to lower capitalization of interest costs for construction projects in progress. Partially offsetting the higher LIFO and interest costs were $30 million of gains on interest rate swaps compared to prior year losses on interest rate swaps of $59 million. In addition, 2010 included charges of $75 million on early debt extinguishment compared to $8 million of similar charges in 2011. Liquidity and Capital Resources A Company objective is to have sufficient liquidity, balance sheet strength, and financial flexibility to fund the operating and capital requirements of a capital intensive agricultural commodity based business. The primary source of funds to finance the Companys operations and capital expenditures is cash generated by operations and lines of credit, including a commercial paper borrowing facility. In addition, the Company believes it has access to funds from public and private equity and debt capital markets in both U.S. and international markets. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Cash provided by operating activities was $2.9 billion for the year compared to cash used in operating activities of $2.3 billion last year. Working capital decreased $0.3 billion since the beginning of fiscal 2012 due principally to the $1.0 billion account receivable securitization program discussed below. In fiscal 2011 working capital increased $5.2 billion due principally to higher agricultural commodity prices. Cash used in investing activities was $1.1 billion for the year compared to a $1.7 billion use last year. Capital expenditures were $1.5 billion for the year compared to $1.2 billion last year. The Company spent approximately $0.2 billion on acquisitions in fiscal 2012 and 2011. Related to the sale of the majority interest in Hickory Point Bank, the Company reduced its holdings of marketable securities generating cash of $0.3 billion and divested cash of $0.1 billion as a result of the deconsolidation. In fiscal 2011, net purchases of marketable securities used $0.3 billion of cash. Cash used in financing activities was $1.1 billion for the year compared to cash provided by financing activities of $3.6 billion last year. In fiscal 2012, the Company returned nearly $1.0 billion to shareholders in the form of dividends and share repurchases, including the acquisition of 18.4 million of its common shares for $0.5 billion. In fiscal 2011 net borrowings increased primarily to fund higher working capital. Short term borrowings increased due principally to higher commercial paper borrowings, and long term borrowings increased primarily as a result of the issuance of $1.5 billion of 18 month floating rate notes in February 2011. In addition the Company issued 44 million shares of common stock and received $1.75 billion in fiscal 2011 under the forward stock purchase component of the Companys Equity Units (see Note 10 in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data). At June 30, 2012, the Company had $1.5 billion of cash, cash equivalents, and short term marketable securities and a current ratio, defined as current assets divided by current liabilities, of 1.8 to 1. Included in working capital is $7.8 billion of readily marketable commodity inventories. At June 30, 2012, the Companys capital resources included net worth of $18.2 billion and lines of credit totaling $6.5 billion, of which $4.4 billion was unused. The Companys ratio of long term debt to total capital (the sum of the Companys long term debt and shareholders equity) was 26% at June 30, 2012 and 30% at June 30, 2011. This ratio is a measure of the Companys long term indebtedness and is an indicator of financial flexibility. Of the Companys total lines of credit, $4.3 billion support a commercial paper borrowing facility, against which there were $1.3 billion of commercial paper outstanding at June 30, 2012. In August 2012, the Company added a $2.0 billion credit facility which will support commercial paper borrowings. On March 27, 2012, the Company entered into an amendment of its accounts receivable securitization program (as amended, the Program) with certain commercial paper conduit purchasers and committed purchasers (collectively, the Purchasers). The Program provides the Company with up to $1.0 billion in funding against accounts receivable transferred into the Program and expands the Companys access to liquidity through efficient use of its balance sheet assets. Under the Program, certain U.S. originated trade accounts receivable are sold to a wholly owned bankruptcy remote entity, ADM Receivables, LLC (ADM Receivables). ADM Receivables in turn transfers such purchased accounts receivable in their entirety to the Purchasers pursuant to a receivables purchase agreement. In exchange for the transfer of the accounts receivable, ADM Receivables receives a cash payment of up to $1.0 billion and an additional amount upon the collection of the accounts receivable (deferred consideration). ADM Receivables uses the cash proceeds from the transfer of receivables to the Purchasers and other consideration to finance the purchase of receivables from the Company and the ADM subsidiaries originating the receivables. The Company acts as master servicer, responsible for servicing and collecting the accounts receivable under the Program. The Program terminates on June 28, 2013 (see Note 20 for more information and disclosures on the Program). As of June 30, 2012, the fair value of trade receivables transferred to the Purchasers under the Program and derecognized from the Companys consolidated balance sheet was $1.6 billion. In exchange for the transfer, the Company received cash of $1.0 billion and recorded a receivable for deferred consideration included in other current assets. The Company has outstanding $1.4 billion principal amount of floating rate notes due on August 13, 2012. Interest on the notes accrues at a floating rate three month LIBOR reset quarterly plus 0.16% and is paid quarterly. As of June 30, 2012, the interest rate on the notes was 0.63%. In August 2012, the Company paid these notes with funds available from short term borrowings. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) The Company has outstanding $1.15 billion principal amount of convertible senior notes. As of June 30, 2012, none of the conditions permitting conversion of these notes had been satisfied. The Company has purchased call options and warrants intended to reduce the potential shareholder dilution upon future conversion of the notes. As of June 30, 2012, the market price of the Companys common stock was not greater than the exercise price of the purchased call options or warrants related to the convertible senior notes. The Company is currently experiencing generally higher prices for agricultural commodities as a result of tightening crop supplies, mostly due to weather impacts on current year U.S. corn and soybean crop production. Higher prices of commodities have historically correlated with increases in the Companys working capital requirements. The Company depends on access to credit markets, which can be impacted by its credit rating and factors outside of the Companys control, such as the European debt situation, to fund its working capital needs and capital expenditures. The Company expects capital expenditures to range from $0.5 billion to $0.6 billion for the upcoming 6 month period ending December 31, 2012. On November 5, 2009, the Companys Board of Directors approved a stock repurchase program authorizing the Company to repurchase up to 100,000,000 shares of the Companys common stock during the period commencing January 1, 2010 and ending December 31, 2014. The Company has acquired approximately 31.6 million shares under this program, resulting in remaining approval to acquire 68.4 million shares. The Companys credit facilities and certain debentures require the Company to comply with specified financial and non financial covenants including maintenance of minimum tangible net worth as well as limitations related to incurring liens, secured debt, and certain other financing arrangements. The Company is in compliance with these covenants as of June 30, 2012. Contractual Obligations In the normal course of business, the Company enters into contracts and commitments which obligate the Company to make payments in the future. The following table sets forth the Companys significant future obligations by time period. Purchases include commodity based contracts entered into in the normal course of business, which are further described in Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, energy related purchase contracts entered into in the normal course of business, and other purchase obligations related to the Companys normal business activities. The following table does not include unrecognized income tax benefits of $80 million as of June 30, 2012 as the Company is unable to reasonably estimate the timing of settlement. Where applicable, information included in the Companys consolidated financial statements and notes is cross referenced in this table. Payments Due by Period Contractual Item 8 Note Less than 1 3 3 5 More than Obligations Reference Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years (In millions) Purchases Inventories $ 17,724 $ 17,307 $ 211 $ 130 $ 76 Energy 866 390 233 87 156 Other 242 145 86 10 1 Total purchases 18,832 17,842 530 227 233 Short term debt 2,108 2,108 Long term debt Note 10 8,212 1,677 1,114 320 5,101 Estimated interest payments 6,688 374 650 636 5,028 Operating leases Note 16 1,135 244 365 263 263 Estimated pension and other postretirement plan contributions (1) Note 17 188 64 23 25 76 Total $ 37,163 $ 22,309 $ 2,682 $ 1,471 $ 10,701 (1) Includes pension contributions of $53 million for fiscal 2013. The Company is unable to estimate the amount of pension contributions beyond fiscal year 2013. For more information concerning the Companys pension and other postretirement plans, see Note 17 in Item 8. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) At June 30, 2012, the Company estimates it will spend approximately $2.1 billion through calendar year 2015 to complete currently approved capital projects which are not included in the table above. The Company also has outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds of $644 million at June 30, 2012. In addition, the Company has entered into agreements, primarily debt guarantee agreements related to equity method investees, which could obligate the Company to make future payments. The Companys liability under these agreements arises only if the primary entity fails to perform its contractual obligation. The Company has collateral for a portion of these contingent obligations. At June 30, 2012, these contingent obligations totaled approximately $30 million. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements On March 27, 2012, the Company entered into an amendment of its accounts receivable securitization program (as amended, the Program) with certain commercial paper conduit purchasers and committed purchasers (collectively, the Purchasers). Under the Program, certain U.S. originated trade accounts receivable are sold to a wholly owned bankruptcy remote entity, ADM Receivables, LLC (ADM Receivables). ADM Receivables in turn transfers such purchased accounts receivable in their entirety to the Purchasers pursuant to a receivables purchase agreement. In exchange for the transfer of the accounts receivable, ADM Receivables receives a cash payment of up to $1.0 billion and an additional amount upon the collection of the accounts receivable (deferred consideration). ADM Receivables uses the cash proceeds from the transfer of receivables to the Purchasers and other consideration to finance the purchase of receivables from the Company and the ADM subsidiaries originating the receivables. The Company accounts for these transfers as sales. The Company has no retained interests in the transferred receivables, other than collection and administrative responsibilities and its right to the deferred consideration. At June 30, 2012, the Company did not record a servicing asset or liability related to its retained responsibility, based on its assessment of the servicing fee, market values for similar transactions and its cost of servicing the receivables sold. The Program terminates on June 28, 2013. As of June 30, 2012, the fair value of trade receivables transferred to the Purchasers under the Program and derecognized from the Companys consolidated balance sheet was $1.6 billion. In exchange for the transfer, the Company received cash of $1.0 billion and recorded a receivable for deferred consideration included in other current assets. Cash collections from customers on receivables sold were $8.9 billion for the four months ended June 30, 2012. Of this amount, $8.9 billion pertains to cash collections on the deferred consideration. Deferred consideration is paid to the Company in cash on behalf of the Purchasers as receivables are collected; however, as this is a revolving facility, cash collected from the Companys customers is reinvested by the Purchasers daily in new receivable purchases under the Program. The Companys risk of loss following the transfer of accounts receivable under the Program is limited to the deferred consideration outstanding, which is classified as other current assets and was $0.6 billion at June 30, 2012. The Company carries the deferred consideration at fair value determined by calculating the expected amount of cash to be received and is principally based on observable inputs (a Level 2 measurement under ASC 820) consisting mainly of the face amount of the receivables adjusted for anticipated credit losses and discounted at the appropriate market rate. Payment of deferred consideration is not subject to significant risks other than delinquencies and credit losses on accounts receivable transferred under the program which have historically been insignificant. Transfers of receivables under the Program during the year ended June 30, 2012 resulted in an expense for the loss on sale of $4 million which is classified as selling, general, and administrative expenses in the consolidated statements of earnings. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Critical Accounting Policies The process of preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the carrying values of the Companys assets and liabilities as well as the recognition of revenues and expenses. These estimates and judgments are based on the Companys historical experience and managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Certain of the Companys accounting policies are considered critical, as these policies are important to the depiction of the Companys financial statements and require significant or complex judgment by management. Management has discussed with the Companys Audit Committee the development, selection, disclosure, and application of these critical accounting policies. Following are the accounting policies management considers critical to the Companys financial statements. Fair Value Measurements Inventories and Derivatives Certain of the Companys assets and liabilities as of June 30, 2012 are valued at estimated fair values, including $6.8 billion of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, $3.1 billion of derivative assets, $3.0 billion of derivative liabilities, and $0.3 billion of inventory related payables. Derivative assets and liabilities include forward fixed price purchase and sale contracts for agricultural commodities, forward foreign exchange contracts, and over the counter instruments such as options contracts. The merchandisable agricultural commodities are freely traded, have quoted market prices, and may be sold without significant additional processing. Management estimates fair value for its commodity related assets and liabilities based on exchange quoted prices, adjusted for differences in local markets. The Companys fair value measurements are mainly based on observable market quotations without significant adjustments and are therefore reported as Level 1 or Level 2 within the fair value hierarchy. Level 3 fair value measurements represent fair value estimates where unobservable price components represent 10% or more of the total fair value price. For more information concerning amounts reported as Level 3, see Note 3 in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Changes in the market values of these inventories and contracts are recognized in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. If management used different methods or factors to estimate market value, amounts reported as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. Additionally, if market conditions change subsequent to year end, amounts reported in future periods as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. Derivatives Designated Hedging Activities The Company, from time to time, uses derivative contracts designated as cash flow hedges to fix the purchase price of anticipated volumes of commodities to be purchased and processed in a future month, to fix the purchase price of the Companys anticipated natural gas requirements for certain production facilities, and to fix the sales price of anticipated volumes of ethanol. These designated hedging programs principally relate to the Companys Corn Processing operating segment. The change in the market value of such derivative contracts has historically been, and is expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold and net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. If it is determined that the derivative instruments used are no longer effective at offsetting changes in the price of the hedged item, then the changes in the market value of these exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts would be recorded immediately in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. See Note 4 in Item 8 for additional information. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Investments in Affiliates The Company applies the equity method of accounting for investments over which the Company has the ability to exercise significant influence, including its 16.4% investment in Wilmar. These investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings and are adjusted, where appropriate, for amortizable basis differences between the investment balance and the underlying net assets of the investee. Generally, the minimum ownership threshold for asserting significant influence is 20% ownership of the investee. However, the Company considers all relevant factors in determining its ability to assert significant influence including but not limited to, ownership percentage, board membership, customer and vendor relationships, and other arrangements. If management used a different accounting method for these investments, then the amount of earnings from affiliates the Company recognizes may differ. Income Taxes The Company frequently faces challenges from U.S. and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company records reserves for estimates of potential additional tax owed by the Company. As an example, a subsidiary of the Company received tax assessments in the amount of $570 million consisting of tax, penalty, and interest (adjusted for interest and variation in currency exchange rates) from the Brazilian Federal Revenue Service challenging the deductibility of commodity hedging losses incurred by the Company for tax years 2004, 2006 and 2007. The Company evaluated its tax position regarding these hedging transactions and concluded, based in part upon advice from Brazilian legal counsel, that it was appropriate to recognize the tax benefits of these deductions (see Note 15 in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for additional information). Deferred tax assets represent items to be used as tax deductions or credits in future tax returns, and the related tax benefit has already been recognized in the Companys income statement. The realization of the Companys deferred tax assets is dependent upon future taxable income in specific tax jurisdictions, the timing and amount of which are uncertain. The Company evaluates all available positive and negative evidence including estimated future reversals of existing temporary differences, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies, and recent financial results. Valuation allowances related to these deferred tax assets have been established to the extent the realization of the tax benefit is not likely. To the extent the Company were to favorably resolve matters for which accruals have been established or be required to pay amounts in excess of the aforementioned reserves, the Companys effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be impacted. Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and the Companys share of the undistributed earnings of affiliated corporate joint venture companies accounted for on the equity method amounting to approximately $7.2 billion at June 30, 2012, are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Property, Plant, and Equipment and Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand, changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned factors may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and cash flows of the Companys assets in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its facilities. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment, technology, and companies related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. Assets are written down after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these assets, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. During 2012, 2011, and 2010, impairment charges were $367 million, $2 million, and $9 million, respectively (see Note 19 for additional information on charges taken in 2012). Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets Goodwill and intangible assets deemed to have indefinite lives are not amortized but are subject to annual impairment tests. The Company evaluates goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year or whenever there are indicators that the carrying value of the assets may not be fully recoverable. Definite lived intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives and are reviewed for impairment whenever there are indicators that the carrying value of the assets may not be fully recoverable. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its impairment tests, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Employee Benefit Plans The Company provides substantially all U.S. employees and employees at certain international subsidiaries with pension benefits. Eligible U.S. employees with five or more years of service prior to January 1, 2009 participate in a defined benefit pension plan. Eligible U.S. employees hired on or after January 1, 2009 (and eligible salaried employees with less than five years of service prior to January 1, 2009) participate in a cash balance pension formula. The Company provides eligible U.S. employees who retire under qualifying conditions with access to postretirement health care, at full cost to the retiree (certain employees are grandfathered into subsidized coverage). In order to measure the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans, management makes several estimates and assumptions, including interest rates used to discount certain liabilities, rates of return on assets set aside to fund these plans, rates of compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and anticipated future health care costs. These estimates and assumptions are based on the Companys historical experience combined with managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Management also uses third party actuaries to assist in measuring the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans. If management used different estimates and assumptions regarding these plans, the funded status of the plans could vary significantly, and the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. See Note 17 in Item 8 for additional information. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in: commodity market prices as they relate to the Companys net commodity position, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and prices of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to factors such as changes in weather conditions, crop disease, plantings, government programs and policies, competition, changes in global demand, changes in customer preferences and standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. The Company manages its exposure to adverse price movements of agricultural commodities used for, and produced in, its business operations, by entering into derivative and non derivative contracts which reduce the Companys overall short or long commodity position. Additionally, the Company uses exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the correlation between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contract defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company, from time to time, enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed designated hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold or net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. The Companys commodity position consists of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, related purchase and sales contracts, energy and freight contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts including contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements, net of sales. The fair value of the Companys commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing all of the commodity positions at quoted market prices for the period, where available, or utilizing a close proxy. The Company has established metrics to monitor the amount of market risk exposure, which consist of volumetric limits, and value at risk (VaR) limits. VaR measures the potential loss, at a 95% confidence level, that could be incurred over a one year period. Volumetric limits are monitored daily and VaR calculations and sensitivity analysis are monitored weekly. In addition to measuring the hypothetical loss resulting from an adverse two standard deviation move in market prices (assuming no correlations) over a one year period using VaR, sensitivity analysis is performed measuring the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in market prices. The highest, lowest, and average weekly position for each of the last two years together with the market risk from a hypothetical 10% adverse price change is as follows: 2012 2011 Long/(Short) Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest position $ 1,477 $ 148 $ 2,388 $ 239 Lowest position (383 ) (38 ) 368 37 Average position 546 55 1,644 164 The decline in fair value of the average position for 2012 compared to 2011 was principally the result of the decline in average quantities underlying the weekly commodity position. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) Currencies The Company has consolidated subsidiaries in over 75 countries. For the majority of the Companys subsidiaries located outside the United States, the local currency is the functional currency. To reduce the risks associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, the Company enters into currency exchange contracts to minimize its foreign currency position related to transactions denominated primarily in Euro, British pound, Canadian dollar, and Brazilian real currencies. These currencies represent the major functional or local currencies in which recurring business transactions occur. The Company does not use currency exchange contracts as hedges against amounts permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The currency exchange contracts used are forward contracts, swaps with banks, exchange traded futures contracts, and over the counter options. The changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $7.2 billion at June 30, 2012, and $8.2 billion at June 30, 2011. This decrease is due to the depreciation of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar partially offset by an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The potential loss in fair value, which would principally be recognized in Other Comprehensive Income, resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $722 million and $823 million for 2012 and 2011, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 50 basis points decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2012 2011 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 8,057 $ 9,108 Excess of fair value over carrying value 1,522 842 Market risk 422 333 The decrease in fair value of long term debt in 2012 resulted principally from the reclassification of $1.5 billion in floating rate notes to short term debt partially offset by decreased interest rates. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) The Companys Corn Processing segment is engaged in corn wet milling and dry milling activities, with its asset base primarily located in the central part of the United States. The Corn Processing segment converts corn into sweeteners and starches, and bioproducts. Its products include ingredients used in the food and beverage industry including sweeteners, starch, syrup, glucose, and dextrose. Dextrose and starch are used by the Corn Processing segment as feedstocks for its bioproducts operations. By fermentation of dextrose, the Corn Processing segment produces alcohol, amino acids, and other specialty food and animal feed ingredients. Ethyl alcohol is produced by the Company for industrial use as ethanol or as beverage grade. Ethanol, in gasoline, increases octane and is used as an extender and oxygenate. Bioproducts also include amino acids such as lysine and threonine that are vital compounds used in swine feeds to produce leaner animals and in poultry feeds to enhance the speed and efficiency of poultry production. Corn gluten feed and meal, as well as distillers grains, are produced for use as animal feed ingredients. Corn germ, a by product of the wet milling process, is further processed into vegetable oil and protein meal. Other Corn Processing products include citric and lactic acids, lactates, sorbitol, xanthan gum, and glycols which are used in various food and industrial products. The Corn Processing segment includes the activities of a propylene and ethylene glycol facility and the Companys Brazilian sugarcane ethanol plant and related operations. In fiscal 2012, the Company ended its commercial alliance with Metabolix, Inc. As a result of this decision, Telles LLC, the sales and marketing commercial alliance created to commercialize Mirel, a bio based plastic, will be dissolved and the production of Mirel on behalf of Telles LLC has ended. This segment also includes the Companys share of the results of its equity investments in Almidones Mexicanos S.A., Eaststarch C.V., and Red Star Yeast Company LLC. The Agricultural Services segment utilizes its extensive U.S. grain elevator, global transportation network, and port operations to buy, store, clean, and transport agricultural commodities, such as oilseeds, corn, wheat, milo, oats, rice, and barley, and resells these commodities primarily as food and feed ingredients and as raw materials for the agricultural processing industry. Agricultural Services grain sourcing, handling, and transportation network provides reliable and efficient services to the Companys customers and agricultural processing operations. Agricultural Services transportation network capabilities include barge, ocean going vessel, truck, and rail freight services. Agricultural Services segment also includes the activities related to the processing of wheat into wheat flour, the processing and distribution of formula feeds, animal health and nutrition products, and the procurement, processing, and distribution of edible beans. The Agricultural Services segment includes the activities of Alfred C. Toepfer International, an 80% owned global merchant of agricultural commodities and processed products. The Agricultural Services segment also includes the Companys share of the results of its Kalama Export Company joint venture and its equity investment in Gruma S.A.B. de C.V. Other includes the Companys remaining operations, primarily its financial business units, related principally to futures commission merchant activities and captive insurance. On September 30, 2011, the Company sold a majority ownership interest of the Bank. The Bank was deconsolidated from the Companys consolidated financial statements in the first quarter of fiscal 2012 resulting in no material effect to ADMs earnings. The Company accounts for its remaining ownership interest in the Bank under the equity method. Corporate results principally include the impact of LIFO related inventory adjustments, unallocated corporate expenses, and interest cost net of investment income. Prior to January 1, 2012, Corporate results included the after tax elimination of income attributable to mandatorily redeemable interests in consolidated subsidiaries. Upon expiration of the put options related to these interests, the results were included in noncontrolling interest. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Operating Performance Indicators The Companys oilseeds processing and agricultural services operations are principally agricultural commodity based businesses where changes in selling prices move in relationship to changes in prices of the commodity based agricultural raw materials. Therefore, changes in agricultural commodity prices have relatively equal impacts on both net sales and other operating income and cost of products sold. Thus, changes in margins and gross profit of these businesses do not necessarily correspond to the changes in net sales and other operating income amounts. The Companys corn processing operations and certain other food and animal feed processing operations also utilize agricultural commodities (or products derived from agricultural commodities) as raw materials. In these operations, agricultural commodity market price changes can result in significant fluctuations in cost of products sold, and such price changes cannot necessarily be passed directly through to the selling price of the finished products. The Company has consolidated subsidiaries in over 75 countries. For the majority of the Companys subsidiaries located outside the United States, the local currency is the functional currency. Revenues and expenses denominated in foreign currencies are translated into U.S. dollars at the weighted average exchange rates for the applicable periods. For the majority of the Companys business activities in Brazil, the functional currency is the U.S. dollar; however, certain transactions, including taxes, occur in local currency and require conversion to the functional currency. Fluctuations in the exchange rates of foreign currencies, primarily the Euro, British pound, Canadian dollar, and Brazilian real, as compared to the U.S. dollar can result in corresponding fluctuations in the U.S. dollar value of revenues and expenses reported by the Company. The Company measures the performance of its business segments using key financial metrics such as segment operating profit, return on invested capital, and cost per metric ton. The Companys operating results can vary significantly due to changes in factors such as fluctuations in energy prices, weather conditions, crop plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand, general global economic conditions, changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. Due to these unpredictable factors, the Company does not provide forward looking information in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 2012 Compared to 2011 As an agricultural commodity based business, the Company is subject to a variety of market factors which affect the Companys operating results. From a demand perspective, global protein meal consumption has continued to grow although at a slower rate. Excess industry crushing production capacity has pressured oilseeds margins, and the Company has adjusted production rates regionally to balance supply with current market demand. Biodiesel markets supported global demand for refined and crude vegetable oils. In the U.S., high biodiesel inventories associated with the December 31, 2011, expiration of blenders incentives dampened margins in the second half of the fiscal year. U.S. corn sweetener exports continue to support sales volumes and margins. Ethanol sales volumes were supported by favorable gasoline blending economics in the U.S. However, excess industry production of ethanol, together with recently reduced U.S. ethanol export demand, have negatively impacted ethanol margins. From a supply perspective, crop supplies in certain key growing regions at the beginning of this fiscal year, including South America and the Black Sea region, were adequate, but a smaller than normal harvest in North America last fall resulted in low U.S. carryover stocks for corn and soybeans. Because of the smaller than expected current year South American harvest, global supplies of corn and soybeans are more dependent on this years North American harvest. While plantings of corn increased this year in the U.S., the drought conditions late in the fiscal year have decreased expectations for the size of the current year harvest. These factors, combined with concerns about the European debt situation and ongoing geopolitical uncertainties, contributed to volatile commodity market price movements during this fiscal year. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Net earnings attributable to controlling interests decreased $0.8 billion to $1.2 billion. Segment operating profit declined $1.6 billion to $2.5 billion amid more challenging conditions generally affecting all reportable segments. Segment operating profit in fiscal 2012 included $349 million of asset impairment charges and exit costs comprised of $335 million to exit the Companys Clinton, IA, bioplastics plant and $14 million to shut down its Walhalla, ND, ethanol dry mill. Earnings before income taxes included a credit of $10 million from the effect on LIFO inventory valuation reserves, including the liquidation of LIFO inventory layers, partially offset by increasing agricultural commodity prices, compared to charges of $368 million in the prior year. Fiscal 2012 unallocated corporate expenses included $71 million of charges related to the Companys global workforce reduction program. Income taxes decreased $0.5 billion due to lower earnings before income taxes and a lower effective income tax rate. The Companys effective income tax rate declined to 29.6% compared to 33.1% in the prior year primarily due to income tax benefits associated with foreign currency re measurement of non monetary assets partially offset by a geographic mix of earnings that shifted more to foreign jurisdictions. Analysis of Statements of Earnings Net sales and other operating income by segment are as follows: 2012 2011 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing and Origination $ 18,794 $ 16,518 $ 2,276 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel, and Other 11,628 9,476 2,152 Cocoa and Other 3,715 3,652 63 Asia 578 262 316 Total Oilseeds Processing 34,715 29,908 4,807 Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 4,793 3,766 1,027 Bioproducts 7,321 6,142 1,179 Total Corn Processing 12,114 9,908 2,206 Agricultural Services Merchandising and Handling 37,631 36,852 779 Transportation 269 222 47 Milling and Other 4,182 3,676 506 Total Agricultural Services 42,082 40,750 1,332 Other Financial 127 110 17 Total Other 127 110 17 Total $ 89,038 $ 80,676 $ 8,362 Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Net sales and other operating income increased $7.0 billion due to higher average selling prices, primarily related to higher underlying commodity costs, and $2.1 billion due to increased sales volumes, including sales volumes from acquisitions, partially offset by changes in foreign currency exchange rates of $0.7 billion. Oilseeds Processing sales increased 16% to $34.7 billion due principally to higher average selling prices of vegetable oils, merchandised commodities, protein meal, and biodiesel and increased sales volumes of biodiesel, protein meal, and peanuts, in part due to the acquisition of Golden Peanut in December 2010. Corn Processing sales increased 22% to $12.1 billion due principally to higher average selling prices of ethanol and sweeteners as well as higher sales volumes of sugar and ethanol. Agricultural Services sales increased 3% to $42.1 billion, due to higher average selling prices of corn and wheat flour partially offset by lower sales volumes, in part due to lower export volumes from the U.S. Cost of products sold increased 12% to $85.4 billion due principally to higher costs of agricultural commodities and, to a lesser extent, increased sales volumes. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates reduced current year cost of products sold by $0.7 billion. Manufacturing expenses increased $0.2 billion due to higher costs for maintenance, employee and benefit related expenses, energy, and chemicals. These higher costs were primarily due to higher production volumes, acquisitions, and higher unit costs for fuels and certain chemicals. Partially offsetting these higher costs was lower depreciation expense, in part due to the Companys change in estimated service lives for machinery and equipment during the second quarter of fiscal 2011. Selling, general, and administrative expenses remained steady at $1.6 billion. Loss provisions mainly due to an unfavorable arbitration award in the Companys Agricultural Services operating segment were partially offset by lower overhead expenses. Asset impairment, exit, and restructuring costs of $437 million were comprised of $349 million in the Corn Processing segment related to the Companys exit from its Clinton, IA, bioplastics business and ethanol dry mill in Walhalla, ND, $71 million in Corporate for the global workforce reduction, and $17 million in Corporate for investment writedown and other facility exit related costs. Interest expense decreased 9% to $441 million primarily due to lower long term debt balances, higher interest expense capitalized on construction projects in progress, and lower interest expense related to uncertain income tax positions. Equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates decreased 13% to $472 million principally due to decreased equity earnings from the Companys equity investee, Gruma, which included a $78 million gain in the prior year related to Grumas disposal of certain assets. Interest income declined 18% to $112 million primarily related to the sale and deconsolidation of the Bank, effective September 30, 2011. Other income net declined $113 million to $17 million due primarily to the absence of income recognized in the prior year period of $71 million for the Golden Peanut Gain and $30 million for gains on interest rate swaps. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Operating profit by segment is as follows: 2012 2011 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing and Origination $ 641 $ 925 $ (284 ) Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel, and Other 295 342 (47 ) Cocoa and Other 183 240 (57 ) Asia 183 183 Total Oilseeds Processing 1,302 1,690 (388 ) Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 335 330 5 Bioproducts (74 ) 749 (823 ) Total Corn Processing 261 1,079 (818 ) Agricultural Services Merchandising and Handling 493 807 (314 ) Transportation 125 117 8 Milling and Other 329 399 (70 ) Total Agricultural Services 947 1,323 (376 ) Other Financial 15 39 (24 ) Total Other 15 39 (24 ) Total Segment Operating Profit 2,525 4,131 (1,606 ) Corporate (see below) (760 ) (1,116 ) 356 Earnings Before Income Taxes $ 1,765 $ 3,015 $ (1,250 ) Corporate results are as follows: 2012 2011 Change (In millions) LIFO credit (charge) $ 10 $ (368 ) $ 378 Interest expense net (423 ) (445 ) 22 Unallocated corporate costs (360 ) (326 ) (34 ) Charges on early extinguishment of debt (4 ) (8 ) 4 Gains (losses) on interest rate swaps 30 (30 ) Other 17 1 16 Total Corporate $ (760 ) $ (1,116 ) $ 356 Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Oilseeds Processing operating profit decreased $0.4 billion to $1.3 billion. Crushing and Origination operating profit decreased $284 million to $641 million primarily due to weaker results in European softseeds, lower results in North American softseeds, and lower North American positioning results. Partially offsetting these lower results, were higher grain origination results in South America driven by higher volumes and favorable positioning. Poor European softseeds results were driven by a small prior year rapeseed crop, positioning losses, and weaker demand for protein meal and oils. North American softseed results declined primarily as a result of lower margins generated from a tight cottonseed supply. Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel, and Other results declined $47 million to $295 million due primarily to declines in biodiesel margins in South America and Europe and lower margins for specialty fats and oils in Europe. These declines were partially offset by improved North American protein specialties and natural health and nutrition results due to higher margins and volumes. Cocoa and Other results declined $57 million to $183 million. Current year results in Cocoa and Other were reduced by $100 million for net unrealized mark to market losses related to certain forward purchase and sales commitments accounted for as derivatives. Last year included $9 million of net unrealized mark to market losses. Excluding these timing effects, cocoa results improved in the current year driven by improved press margins caused by strong cocoa powder demand. The prior year included the $71 million Golden Peanut Gain which was partially offset this year by higher earnings in the Companys peanut business in part due to the first full year of consolidated results for Golden Peanut being reported by the Company in fiscal 2012. Asia results remained steady at $183 million, principally reflecting the Companys share of its results from equity investee, Wilmar. Corn Processing operating results decreased $818 million to $261 million due principally to poor ethanol margins and $349 million in asset impairment charges and exit costs. Excluding the asset impairment and exit costs related to the Companys bioplastics business and Walhalla, ND, ethanol dry grind facility, Corn Processing operating profit of $610 million in the current year represents a decline of $469 million compared to the prior year. Processed volumes were up 5 percent while net corn costs increased compared to last year. Sweeteners and Starches operating profit increased $5 million to $335 million, as higher average selling prices more than offset higher net corn costs. Bioproducts profit decreased $823 million to a loss of $74 million, including the $349 million asset impairment and exit charges. Lower ethanol margins were caused by excess supply as previously offline production restarted while industry demand declined, in part due to slowing export demand. Prior year bioproducts results were enhanced by favorable corn ownership positions, which lowered net corn costs in that period. Bioproducts results in the prior year were negatively impacted by startup costs of $94 million related to the Companys new dry grind ethanol, bioplastic, and glycol plants. Agricultural Services operating profits decreased $376 million to $947 million. Merchandising and Handling earnings decreased primarily due to lower results from U.S. operations. Lower sales volumes were principally the result of the relatively higher cost of U.S. grains and oilseeds in the global market due to lower stocks caused by a smaller U.S. harvest in 2011. This relatively weaker position led to reduced U.S. grain exports. In the prior year, Merchandising and Handling results were positively impacted by higher quantities of U.S. grain exports by the Company. In addition, fiscal 2012 included $40 million of increased loss provisions mainly due to an unfavorable arbitration award. Earnings from Transportation were steady. Last years operating results in Milling and Other operations included a $78 million gain related to Grumas disposal of certain assets. Other financial operating profit decreased $24 million to $15 million mainly due to higher loss provisions at the Companys captive insurance subsidiary related to property and crop risk reserves. Corporate expenses declined $356 million to $760 million this year. The effects of a liquidation of LIFO inventory layers partially offset by increasing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations resulted in a credit of $10 million in the current year compared to a charge of $368 million in the prior year primarily due to higher prices. Corporate interest expense decreased $22 million primarily due to lower interest expense on lower long term debt balances. Unallocated corporate costs include $71 million of costs related to the global workforce reduction program. Excluding these costs, unallocated corporate costs declined $37 million due primarily to lower administrative costs. Corporate other income increased due to higher investment income partially offset by $17 million for investment writedown and facility exit related costs. Also, in the prior year the Company recognized $30 million of gains on interest rate swaps. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) 2011 Compared to 2010 As an agricultural commodity based business, the Company is subject to a variety of market factors which affect the Companys operating results. In 2011, prices for certain agricultural commodities were higher in response to growing global demand and tighter crop supplies. The projections of lower 2011 carryover stocks for certain key commodities, coupled with regional crop supply dislocations for certain commodities, also led to high commodity price volatility. Global demand for agricultural commodities grew in 2011, resulting in increased sales volumes for most of the Companys products. The large 2010 North American harvest resulted in global merchandising, handling, and processing opportunities. Protein meal markets for commercial livestock producers in the U.S., particularly poultry producers, faced challenging conditions. Biodiesel markets in Europe and South America, together with the 2011 extension of the U.S. biodiesel blenders credit, helped support global demand for refined and crude vegetable oils. Sweeteners and starches demand remained strong in 2011 due primarily to U.S. exports of sweeteners and improved demand for industrial starches. Ethanol sales volumes, including increased volumes as the Companys new dry mills ramped up, were supported by favorable gasoline blending economics in the U.S. and good export demand. Net earnings increased $106 million to $2.0 billion due principally to a $794 million increase in segment operating profit partially offset by a negative impact from changing LIFO inventory valuations and higher income taxes. In 2011, the Company successfully managed through significant increases in market prices for most of its agricultural commodity raw materials, resulting in increased segment operating profit. Earnings before income taxes includes charges of $368 million from the effect of increasing agricultural commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuation reserves, compared to credits of $42 million in the prior year caused by decreasing agricultural commodity prices. Income taxes increased $331 million due to a higher effective income tax rate and higher earnings before income taxes. The effective income tax rate of 33.1% for 2011 was the result of changes in the geographic mix of earnings and unfavorable specific tax items. The fully diluted earnings per share calculation for 2011 was impacted by the completion of the Companys debt remarketing related to the $1.75 billion Equity Units. While the approximately 44 million new common shares related to the $1.75 billion Equity Units were not issued until June 1, 2011, the if converted method of accounting for diluted earnings per share required diluted EPS to be calculated as if the Company issued the shares on January 1, 2011, and this assumption resulted in a dilutive impact of $0.04 on earnings per share (See Note 11 in the accompanying consolidated financial statements). Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Analysis of Statements of Earnings Net sales and other operating income by segment are as follows: 2011 2010 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing and Origination $ 16,518 $ 14,411 $ 2,107 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel, and Other 9,476 7,133 2,343 Cocoa and Other 3,652 2,678 974 Asia 262 190 72 Total Oilseeds Processing 29,908 24,412 5,496 Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 3,766 3,264 502 Bioproducts 6,142 4,610 1,532 Total Corn Processing 9,908 7,874 2,034 Agricultural Services Merchandising and Handling 36,852 25,751 11,101 Transportation 222 167 55 Milling and Other 3,676 3,383 293 Total Agricultural Services 40,750 29,301 11,449 Other Financial 110 95 15 Total Other 110 95 15 Total $ 80,676 $ 61,682 $ 18,994 Net sales and other operating income increased $19.0 billion, or 31%, to $80.7 billion. Net sales and other operating income increased $14.2 billion due to higher average selling prices, primarily related to higher underlying commodity costs, and increased $4.8 billion due to increased sales volumes, including sales volumes from acquisitions. Agricultural Services sales increased 39% to $40.8 billion due to higher average selling prices of agricultural commodities and higher global sales volumes. Oilseeds Processing sales increased 23% to $29.9 billion primarily due to higher average selling prices for vegetable oils, soybeans, biodiesel, and protein meal. Corn Processing sales increased 26% to $9.9 billion due to higher average selling prices and increased sales volumes of ethanol and other corn products, in part due to the Companys two new ethanol dry mills coming on line. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Cost of products sold increased 32% to $76.4 billion due to higher costs of agricultural commodities, negative impacts resulting from changes in LIFO inventory valuations, and higher manufacturing costs. Cost of products sold includes charges of $368 million from the effect of increasing agricultural commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuation reserves, compared to credits of $42 million in the prior year caused by decreasing agricultural commodity prices. Manufacturing expenses increased $410 million due primarily to higher processed volumes, including the volumes of the Companys new greenfield operations coming on line, and higher average unit costs for certain chemicals and fuels used in the Companys processing and transportation operations. During the second quarter of fiscal 2011, the Company updated its estimates for service lives of certain of its machinery and equipment assets. This change in estimate resulted in a $133 million decrease in depreciation expense compared to the amount of depreciation expense the Company would have recorded using the previously estimated service lives. Manufacturing expenses included $94 million in fiscal 2011 related to the start up of new plants compared to $110 million in the prior year. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased 15% to $1.6 billion. This increase was due to higher employee related costs and higher administrative expenses. Higher employee related costs principally reflect the increase in number of employees during the year and included higher salaries and wages, higher accruals for performance based compensation and higher benefit expenses. Equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates declined 3% to $542 million. The decline in earnings from the Companys equity investee, Wilmar, was partially offset by higher earnings of the Companys equity investee, Gruma, in part due to a gain on Grumas disposition of certain assets. Interest income increased 8% to $136 million principally resulting from higher interest earned on advances to affiliates. Interest expense increased 14% to $482 million. Interest costs capitalized as a component of major construction projects in progress was $7 million compared to $75 million in the prior year. Interest incurred on long term debt declined $24 million as a result of debt retirements while interest incurred on short term debt increased $15 million due to higher average borrowings driven by higher working capital requirements. Other (income) expense net increased $255 million primarily due to the $71 million gain resulting from the revaluation of the Companys previously held equity interest in Golden Peanut upon acquisition of the remaining 50% interest, gains on interest rate swaps of $30 million compared to a loss of $59 million in the prior year, and a decrease in charges related to early extinguishment of debt from $75 million in the prior year to $15 million in the current year. Income taxes increased $331 million to $997 million due to a higher effective income tax rate and higher pretax earnings. The Companys effective income tax rate increased to 33.1% during 2011 compared to 25.8% in fiscal 2010. The increase in the 2011 rate was primarily due to a geographic mix of earnings that shifted more to the U.S., a higher U.S. effective income tax rate, income tax expense associated with foreign currency re measurement of non monetary assets in Brazil, and adjustments to deferred income tax balances. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Operating profit by segment is as follows: 2011 2010 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing and Origination $ 925 $ 834 $ 91 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel, and Other 342 300 42 Cocoa and Other 240 126 114 Asia 183 291 (108 ) Total Oilseeds Processing 1,690 1,551 139 Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 330 538 (208 ) Bioproducts 749 200 549 Total Corn Processing 1,079 738 341 Agricultural Services Merchandising and Handling 807 562 245 Transportation 117 96 21 Milling and Other 399 344 55 Total Agricultural Services 1,323 1,002 321 Other Financial 39 46 (7 ) Total Other 39 46 (7 ) Total Segment Operating Profit 4,131 3,337 794 Corporate (see below) (1,116 ) (752 ) (364 ) Earnings Before Income Taxes $ 3,015 $ 2,585 $ 430 Corporate results are as follows: 2011 2010 Change (In millions) LIFO credit $ (368 ) $ 42 $ (410 ) Interest expense net (445 ) (381 ) (64 ) Unallocated corporate costs (326 ) (266 ) (60 ) Charges on early extinguishment of debt (8 ) (75 ) 67 Gains (losses) on interest rate swaps 30 (59 ) 89 Other 1 (13 ) 14 Total Corporate $ (1,116 ) $ (752 ) $ (364 ) Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Oilseeds Processing operating profit increased 9% to $1.7 billion. Crushing and Origination results increased $91 million to $925 million. Improved North American crushing results, particularly for cotton seed and canola, were partially offset by lower crushing margins in South America and Europe. Margins globally were enhanced by good positioning and by improved origination results. In South America, fertilizer results improved due to higher margins and volumes. Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel and Other results increased $42 million to $342 million due principally to higher packaged oils margins and improved North American and European biodiesel results. Cocoa and Other results increased $114 million to $240 million primarily due to the $71 million gain on the revaluation of the Companys equity interest in Golden Peanut and higher peanut profits as a result of the December 31, 2010 acquisition of the remaining 50% interest of Golden Peanut. Asia results decreased $108 million due principally to decreased earnings from the Companys equity investee, Wilmar. Corn Processing operating profit increased 46% to $1.1 billion, which includes favorable impacts from ownership positions, which were allocated to sweeteners and starches and bioproducts based on total grind. Sweeteners and Starches operating profit decreased $208 million to $330 million due to higher net corn costs partially offset by higher sales volumes. Sales volumes increased due to U.S. export shipments of sweeteners and improved U.S. demand for industrial starches. Bioproducts operating profit improved $549 million primarily due to higher ethanol sales volumes and higher average selling prices leading to increased ethanol and lysine margins. Bioproducts margins were also enhanced by favorable corn ownership positions. Bioproducts results included startup costs related to the Companys new plants of $94 million in 2011 compared to $107 million in the prior year. Agricultural Services operating profit increased 32% to $1.3 billion. Merchandising and Handling results increased due to higher corn and wheat sales volumes and higher margins. A large 2010 U.S. harvest combined with strong international demand resulted in higher U.S. export shipments. Merchandising and Handling results in 2011 included an insurance recovery of $67 million related to property damage and business interruption resulting from an October 2008 explosion at the Companys Destrehan, LA, export facility. International merchandising results were weaker in part due to positions impacted by unexpected shifts in crop supply caused by weather conditions and government actions in the Black Sea region. Transportation results increased $21 million to $117 million primarily due to higher barge freight rates and higher barge utilization levels, in part due to higher U.S. export volumes. Milling and Other results improved due principally to increased equity earnings from the Companys equity investee, Gruma which include a $78 million gain related to Grumas disposal of certain assets. Other financial operating profit decreased 15% to $39 million primarily due to higher captive insurance loss provisions principally related to a $67 million loss related to the Companys Destrehan, LA, export facility insurance claim. Corporate results decreased $364 million primarily due to the negative impact from changing LIFO inventory valuations and higher interest expense net. The effects of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory reserves resulted in charges of $368 million compared to credits of $42 million for the prior year. Corporate interest expense increased $64 million mostly due to lower capitalization of interest costs for construction projects in progress. Partially offsetting the higher LIFO and interest costs were $30 million of gains on interest rate swaps compared to prior year losses on interest rate swaps of $59 million. In addition, 2010 included charges of $75 million on early debt extinguishment compared to $8 million of similar charges in 2011. Liquidity and Capital Resources A Company objective is to have sufficient liquidity, balance sheet strength, and financial flexibility to fund the operating and capital requirements of a capital intensive agricultural commodity based business. The primary source of funds to finance the Companys operations and capital expenditures is cash generated by operations and lines of credit, including a commercial paper borrowing facility. In addition, the Company believes it has access to funds from public and private equity and debt capital markets in both U.S. and international markets. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Cash provided by operating activities was $2.9 billion for the year compared to cash used in operating activities of $2.3 billion last year. Working capital decreased $0.3 billion since the beginning of fiscal 2012 due principally to the $1.0 billion account receivable securitization program discussed below. In fiscal 2011 working capital increased $5.2 billion due principally to higher agricultural commodity prices. Cash used in investing activities was $1.1 billion for the year compared to a $1.7 billion use last year. Capital expenditures were $1.5 billion for the year compared to $1.2 billion last year. The Company spent approximately $0.2 billion on acquisitions in fiscal 2012 and 2011. Related to the sale of the majority interest in Hickory Point Bank, the Company reduced its holdings of marketable securities generating cash of $0.3 billion and divested cash of $0.1 billion as a result of the deconsolidation. In fiscal 2011, net purchases of marketable securities used $0.3 billion of cash. Cash used in financing activities was $1.1 billion for the year compared to cash provided by financing activities of $3.6 billion last year. In fiscal 2012, the Company returned nearly $1.0 billion to shareholders in the form of dividends and share repurchases, including the acquisition of 18.4 million of its common shares for $0.5 billion. In fiscal 2011 net borrowings increased primarily to fund higher working capital. Short term borrowings increased due principally to higher commercial paper borrowings, and long term borrowings increased primarily as a result of the issuance of $1.5 billion of 18 month floating rate notes in February 2011. In addition the Company issued 44 million shares of common stock and received $1.75 billion in fiscal 2011 under the forward stock purchase component of the Companys Equity Units (see Note 10 in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data). At June 30, 2012, the Company had $1.5 billion of cash, cash equivalents, and short term marketable securities and a current ratio, defined as current assets divided by current liabilities, of 1.8 to 1. Included in working capital is $7.8 billion of readily marketable commodity inventories. At June 30, 2012, the Companys capital resources included net worth of $18.2 billion and lines of credit totaling $6.5 billion, of which $4.4 billion was unused. The Companys ratio of long term debt to total capital (the sum of the Companys long term debt and shareholders equity) was 26% at June 30, 2012 and 30% at June 30, 2011. This ratio is a measure of the Companys long term indebtedness and is an indicator of financial flexibility. Of the Companys total lines of credit, $4.3 billion support a commercial paper borrowing facility, against which there were $1.3 billion of commercial paper outstanding at June 30, 2012. In August 2012, the Company added a $2.0 billion credit facility which will support commercial paper borrowings. On March 27, 2012, the Company entered into an amendment of its accounts receivable securitization program (as amended, the Program) with certain commercial paper conduit purchasers and committed purchasers (collectively, the Purchasers). The Program provides the Company with up to $1.0 billion in funding against accounts receivable transferred into the Program and expands the Companys access to liquidity through efficient use of its balance sheet assets. Under the Program, certain U.S. originated trade accounts receivable are sold to a wholly owned bankruptcy remote entity, ADM Receivables, LLC (ADM Receivables). ADM Receivables in turn transfers such purchased accounts receivable in their entirety to the Purchasers pursuant to a receivables purchase agreement. In exchange for the transfer of the accounts receivable, ADM Receivables receives a cash payment of up to $1.0 billion and an additional amount upon the collection of the accounts receivable (deferred consideration). ADM Receivables uses the cash proceeds from the transfer of receivables to the Purchasers and other consideration to finance the purchase of receivables from the Company and the ADM subsidiaries originating the receivables. The Company acts as master servicer, responsible for servicing and collecting the accounts receivable under the Program. The Program terminates on June 28, 2013 (see Note 20 for more information and disclosures on the Program). As of June 30, 2012, the fair value of trade receivables transferred to the Purchasers under the Program and derecognized from the Companys consolidated balance sheet was $1.6 billion. In exchange for the transfer, the Company received cash of $1.0 billion and recorded a receivable for deferred consideration included in other current assets. The Company has outstanding $1.4 billion principal amount of floating rate notes due on August 13, 2012. Interest on the notes accrues at a floating rate three month LIBOR reset quarterly plus 0.16% and is paid quarterly. As of June 30, 2012, the interest rate on the notes was 0.63%. In August 2012, the Company paid these notes with funds available from short term borrowings. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) The Company has outstanding $1.15 billion principal amount of convertible senior notes. As of June 30, 2012, none of the conditions permitting conversion of these notes had been satisfied. The Company has purchased call options and warrants intended to reduce the potential shareholder dilution upon future conversion of the notes. As of June 30, 2012, the market price of the Companys common stock was not greater than the exercise price of the purchased call options or warrants related to the convertible senior notes. The Company is currently experiencing generally higher prices for agricultural commodities as a result of tightening crop supplies, mostly due to weather impacts on current year U.S. corn and soybean crop production. Higher prices of commodities have historically correlated with increases in the Companys working capital requirements. The Company depends on access to credit markets, which can be impacted by its credit rating and factors outside of the Companys control, such as the European debt situation, to fund its working capital needs and capital expenditures. The Company expects capital expenditures to range from $0.5 billion to $0.6 billion for the upcoming 6 month period ending December 31, 2012. On November 5, 2009, the Companys Board of Directors approved a stock repurchase program authorizing the Company to repurchase up to 100,000,000 shares of the Companys common stock during the period commencing January 1, 2010 and ending December 31, 2014. The Company has acquired approximately 31.6 million shares under this program, resulting in remaining approval to acquire 68.4 million shares. The Companys credit facilities and certain debentures require the Company to comply with specified financial and non financial covenants including maintenance of minimum tangible net worth as well as limitations related to incurring liens, secured debt, and certain other financing arrangements. The Company is in compliance with these covenants as of June 30, 2012. Contractual Obligations In the normal course of business, the Company enters into contracts and commitments which obligate the Company to make payments in the future. The following table sets forth the Companys significant future obligations by time period. Purchases include commodity based contracts entered into in the normal course of business, which are further described in Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, energy related purchase contracts entered into in the normal course of business, and other purchase obligations related to the Companys normal business activities. The following table does not include unrecognized income tax benefits of $80 million as of June 30, 2012 as the Company is unable to reasonably estimate the timing of settlement. Where applicable, information included in the Companys consolidated financial statements and notes is cross referenced in this table. Payments Due by Period Contractual Item 8 Note Less than 1 3 3 5 More than Obligations Reference Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years (In millions) Purchases Inventories $ 17,724 $ 17,307 $ 211 $ 130 $ 76 Energy 866 390 233 87 156 Other 242 145 86 10 1 Total purchases 18,832 17,842 530 227 233 Short term debt 2,108 2,108 Long term debt Note 10 8,212 1,677 1,114 320 5,101 Estimated interest payments 6,688 374 650 636 5,028 Operating leases Note 16 1,135 244 365 263 263 Estimated pension and other postretirement plan contributions (1) Note 17 188 64 23 25 76 Total $ 37,163 $ 22,309 $ 2,682 $ 1,471 $ 10,701 (1) Includes pension contributions of $53 million for fiscal 2013. The Company is unable to estimate the amount of pension contributions beyond fiscal year 2013. For more information concerning the Companys pension and other postretirement plans, see Note 17 in Item 8. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) At June 30, 2012, the Company estimates it will spend approximately $2.1 billion through calendar year 2015 to complete currently approved capital projects which are not included in the table above. The Company also has outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds of $644 million at June 30, 2012. In addition, the Company has entered into agreements, primarily debt guarantee agreements related to equity method investees, which could obligate the Company to make future payments. The Companys liability under these agreements arises only if the primary entity fails to perform its contractual obligation. The Company has collateral for a portion of these contingent obligations. At June 30, 2012, these contingent obligations totaled approximately $30 million. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements On March 27, 2012, the Company entered into an amendment of its accounts receivable securitization program (as amended, the Program) with certain commercial paper conduit purchasers and committed purchasers (collectively, the Purchasers). Under the Program, certain U.S. originated trade accounts receivable are sold to a wholly owned bankruptcy remote entity, ADM Receivables, LLC (ADM Receivables). ADM Receivables in turn transfers such purchased accounts receivable in their entirety to the Purchasers pursuant to a receivables purchase agreement. In exchange for the transfer of the accounts receivable, ADM Receivables receives a cash payment of up to $1.0 billion and an additional amount upon the collection of the accounts receivable (deferred consideration). ADM Receivables uses the cash proceeds from the transfer of receivables to the Purchasers and other consideration to finance the purchase of receivables from the Company and the ADM subsidiaries originating the receivables. The Company accounts for these transfers as sales. The Company has no retained interests in the transferred receivables, other than collection and administrative responsibilities and its right to the deferred consideration. At June 30, 2012, the Company did not record a servicing asset or liability related to its retained responsibility, based on its assessment of the servicing fee, market values for similar transactions and its cost of servicing the receivables sold. The Program terminates on June 28, 2013. As of June 30, 2012, the fair value of trade receivables transferred to the Purchasers under the Program and derecognized from the Companys consolidated balance sheet was $1.6 billion. In exchange for the transfer, the Company received cash of $1.0 billion and recorded a receivable for deferred consideration included in other current assets. Cash collections from customers on receivables sold were $8.9 billion for the four months ended June 30, 2012. Of this amount, $8.9 billion pertains to cash collections on the deferred consideration. Deferred consideration is paid to the Company in cash on behalf of the Purchasers as receivables are collected; however, as this is a revolving facility, cash collected from the Companys customers is reinvested by the Purchasers daily in new receivable purchases under the Program. The Companys risk of loss following the transfer of accounts receivable under the Program is limited to the deferred consideration outstanding, which is classified as other current assets and was $0.6 billion at June 30, 2012. The Company carries the deferred consideration at fair value determined by calculating the expected amount of cash to be received and is principally based on observable inputs (a Level 2 measurement under ASC 820) consisting mainly of the face amount of the receivables adjusted for anticipated credit losses and discounted at the appropriate market rate. Payment of deferred consideration is not subject to significant risks other than delinquencies and credit losses on accounts receivable transferred under the program which have historically been insignificant. Transfers of receivables under the Program during the year ended June 30, 2012 resulted in an expense for the loss on sale of $4 million which is classified as selling, general, and administrative expenses in the consolidated statements of earnings. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Critical Accounting Policies The process of preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the carrying values of the Companys assets and liabilities as well as the recognition of revenues and expenses. These estimates and judgments are based on the Companys historical experience and managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Certain of the Companys accounting policies are considered critical, as these policies are important to the depiction of the Companys financial statements and require significant or complex judgment by management. Management has discussed with the Companys Audit Committee the development, selection, disclosure, and application of these critical accounting policies. Following are the accounting policies management considers critical to the Companys financial statements. Fair Value Measurements Inventories and Derivatives Certain of the Companys assets and liabilities as of June 30, 2012 are valued at estimated fair values, including $6.8 billion of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, $3.1 billion of derivative assets, $3.0 billion of derivative liabilities, and $0.3 billion of inventory related payables. Derivative assets and liabilities include forward fixed price purchase and sale contracts for agricultural commodities, forward foreign exchange contracts, and over the counter instruments such as options contracts. The merchandisable agricultural commodities are freely traded, have quoted market prices, and may be sold without significant additional processing. Management estimates fair value for its commodity related assets and liabilities based on exchange quoted prices, adjusted for differences in local markets. The Companys fair value measurements are mainly based on observable market quotations without significant adjustments and are therefore reported as Level 1 or Level 2 within the fair value hierarchy. Level 3 fair value measurements represent fair value estimates where unobservable price components represent 10% or more of the total fair value price. For more information concerning amounts reported as Level 3, see Note 3 in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Changes in the market values of these inventories and contracts are recognized in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. If management used different methods or factors to estimate market value, amounts reported as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. Additionally, if market conditions change subsequent to year end, amounts reported in future periods as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. Derivatives Designated Hedging Activities The Company, from time to time, uses derivative contracts designated as cash flow hedges to fix the purchase price of anticipated volumes of commodities to be purchased and processed in a future month, to fix the purchase price of the Companys anticipated natural gas requirements for certain production facilities, and to fix the sales price of anticipated volumes of ethanol. These designated hedging programs principally relate to the Companys Corn Processing operating segment. The change in the market value of such derivative contracts has historically been, and is expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold and net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. If it is determined that the derivative instruments used are no longer effective at offsetting changes in the price of the hedged item, then the changes in the market value of these exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts would be recorded immediately in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. See Note 4 in Item 8 for additional information. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Investments in Affiliates The Company applies the equity method of accounting for investments over which the Company has the ability to exercise significant influence, including its 16.4% investment in Wilmar. These investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings and are adjusted, where appropriate, for amortizable basis differences between the investment balance and the underlying net assets of the investee. Generally, the minimum ownership threshold for asserting significant influence is 20% ownership of the investee. However, the Company considers all relevant factors in determining its ability to assert significant influence including but not limited to, ownership percentage, board membership, customer and vendor relationships, and other arrangements. If management used a different accounting method for these investments, then the amount of earnings from affiliates the Company recognizes may differ. Income Taxes The Company frequently faces challenges from U.S. and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company records reserves for estimates of potential additional tax owed by the Company. As an example, a subsidiary of the Company received tax assessments in the amount of $570 million consisting of tax, penalty, and interest (adjusted for interest and variation in currency exchange rates) from the Brazilian Federal Revenue Service challenging the deductibility of commodity hedging losses incurred by the Company for tax years 2004, 2006 and 2007. The Company evaluated its tax position regarding these hedging transactions and concluded, based in part upon advice from Brazilian legal counsel, that it was appropriate to recognize the tax benefits of these deductions (see Note 15 in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for additional information). Deferred tax assets represent items to be used as tax deductions or credits in future tax returns, and the related tax benefit has already been recognized in the Companys income statement. The realization of the Companys deferred tax assets is dependent upon future taxable income in specific tax jurisdictions, the timing and amount of which are uncertain. The Company evaluates all available positive and negative evidence including estimated future reversals of existing temporary differences, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies, and recent financial results. Valuation allowances related to these deferred tax assets have been established to the extent the realization of the tax benefit is not likely. To the extent the Company were to favorably resolve matters for which accruals have been established or be required to pay amounts in excess of the aforementioned reserves, the Companys effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be impacted. Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and the Companys share of the undistributed earnings of affiliated corporate joint venture companies accounted for on the equity method amounting to approximately $7.2 billion at June 30, 2012, are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Property, Plant, and Equipment and Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand, changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned factors may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and cash flows of the Companys assets in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its facilities. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment, technology, and companies related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. Assets are written down after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these assets, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. During 2012, 2011, and 2010, impairment charges were $367 million, $2 million, and $9 million, respectively (see Note 19 for additional information on charges taken in 2012). Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets Goodwill and intangible assets deemed to have indefinite lives are not amortized but are subject to annual impairment tests. The Company evaluates goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year or whenever there are indicators that the carrying value of the assets may not be fully recoverable. Definite lived intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives and are reviewed for impairment whenever there are indicators that the carrying value of the assets may not be fully recoverable. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its impairment tests, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Employee Benefit Plans The Company provides substantially all U.S. employees and employees at certain international subsidiaries with pension benefits. Eligible U.S. employees with five or more years of service prior to January 1, 2009 participate in a defined benefit pension plan. Eligible U.S. employees hired on or after January 1, 2009 (and eligible salaried employees with less than five years of service prior to January 1, 2009) participate in a cash balance pension formula. The Company provides eligible U.S. employees who retire under qualifying conditions with access to postretirement health care, at full cost to the retiree (certain employees are grandfathered into subsidized coverage). In order to measure the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans, management makes several estimates and assumptions, including interest rates used to discount certain liabilities, rates of return on assets set aside to fund these plans, rates of compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and anticipated future health care costs. These estimates and assumptions are based on the Companys historical experience combined with managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Management also uses third party actuaries to assist in measuring the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans. If management used different estimates and assumptions regarding these plans, the funded status of the plans could vary significantly, and the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. See Note 17 in Item 8 for additional information. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in: commodity market prices as they relate to the Companys net commodity position, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and prices of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to factors such as changes in weather conditions, crop disease, plantings, government programs and policies, competition, changes in global demand, changes in customer preferences and standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. The Company manages its exposure to adverse price movements of agricultural commodities used for, and produced in, its business operations, by entering into derivative and non derivative contracts which reduce the Companys overall short or long commodity position. Additionally, the Company uses exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the correlation between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contract defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company, from time to time, enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed designated hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold or net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. The Companys commodity position consists of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, related purchase and sales contracts, energy and freight contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts including contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements, net of sales. The fair value of the Companys commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing all of the commodity positions at quoted market prices for the period, where available, or utilizing a close proxy. The Company has established metrics to monitor the amount of market risk exposure, which consist of volumetric limits, and value at risk (VaR) limits. VaR measures the potential loss, at a 95% confidence level, that could be incurred over a one year period. Volumetric limits are monitored daily and VaR calculations and sensitivity analysis are monitored weekly. In addition to measuring the hypothetical loss resulting from an adverse two standard deviation move in market prices (assuming no correlations) over a one year period using VaR, sensitivity analysis is performed measuring the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in market prices. The highest, lowest, and average weekly position for each of the last two years together with the market risk from a hypothetical 10% adverse price change is as follows: 2012 2011 Long/(Short) Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest position $ 1,477 $ 148 $ 2,388 $ 239 Lowest position (383 ) (38 ) 368 37 Average position 546 55 1,644 164 The decline in fair value of the average position for 2012 compared to 2011 was principally the result of the decline in average quantities underlying the weekly commodity position. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) Currencies The Company has consolidated subsidiaries in over 75 countries. For the majority of the Companys subsidiaries located outside the United States, the local currency is the functional currency. To reduce the risks associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, the Company enters into currency exchange contracts to minimize its foreign currency position related to transactions denominated primarily in Euro, British pound, Canadian dollar, and Brazilian real currencies. These currencies represent the major functional or local currencies in which recurring business transactions occur. The Company does not use currency exchange contracts as hedges against amounts permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The currency exchange contracts used are forward contracts, swaps with banks, exchange traded futures contracts, and over the counter options. The changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $7.2 billion at June 30, 2012, and $8.2 billion at June 30, 2011. This decrease is due to the depreciation of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar partially offset by an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The potential loss in fair value, which would principally be recognized in Other Comprehensive Income, resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $722 million and $823 million for 2012 and 2011, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 50 basis points decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2012 2011 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 8,057 $ 9,108 Excess of fair value over carrying value 1,522 842 Market risk 422 333 The decrease in fair value of long term debt in 2012 resulted principally from the reclassification of $1.5 billion in floating rate notes to short term debt partially offset by decreased interest rates. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Operating Performance Indicators The Companys oilseeds processing and agricultural services operations are principally agricultural commodity based businesses where changes in selling prices move in relationship to changes in prices of the commodity based agricultural raw materials. Therefore, changes in agricultural commodity prices have relatively equal impacts on both net sales and other operating income and cost of products sold. Thus, changes in margins and gross profit of these businesses do not necessarily correspond to the changes in net sales and other operating income amounts. The Companys corn processing operations and certain other food and animal feed processing operations also utilize agricultural commodities (or products derived from agricultural commodities) as raw materials. In these operations, agricultural commodity market price changes can result in significant fluctuations in cost of products sold, and such price changes cannot necessarily be passed directly through to the selling price of the finished products. The Company has consolidated subsidiaries in over 75 countries. For the majority of the Companys subsidiaries located outside the United States, the local currency is the functional currency. Revenues and expenses denominated in foreign currencies are translated into U.S. dollars at the weighted average exchange rates for the applicable periods. For the majority of the Companys business activities in Brazil, the functional currency is the U.S. dollar; however, certain transactions, including taxes, occur in local currency and require conversion to the functional currency. Fluctuations in the exchange rates of foreign currencies, primarily the Euro, British pound, Canadian dollar, and Brazilian real, as compared to the U.S. dollar can result in corresponding fluctuations in the U.S. dollar value of revenues and expenses reported by the Company. The Company measures the performance of its business segments using key financial metrics such as segment operating profit, return on invested capital, and cost per metric ton. The Companys operating results can vary significantly due to changes in factors such as fluctuations in energy prices, weather conditions, crop plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand, general global economic conditions, changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. Due to these unpredictable factors, the Company does not provide forward looking information in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 2012 Compared to 2011 As an agricultural commodity based business, the Company is subject to a variety of market factors which affect the Companys operating results. From a demand perspective, global protein meal consumption has continued to grow although at a slower rate. Excess industry crushing production capacity has pressured oilseeds margins, and the Company has adjusted production rates regionally to balance supply with current market demand. Biodiesel markets supported global demand for refined and crude vegetable oils. In the U.S., high biodiesel inventories associated with the December 31, 2011, expiration of blenders incentives dampened margins in the second half of the fiscal year. U.S. corn sweetener exports continue to support sales volumes and margins. Ethanol sales volumes were supported by favorable gasoline blending economics in the U.S. However, excess industry production of ethanol, together with recently reduced U.S. ethanol export demand, have negatively impacted ethanol margins. From a supply perspective, crop supplies in certain key growing regions at the beginning of this fiscal year, including South America and the Black Sea region, were adequate, but a smaller than normal harvest in North America last fall resulted in low U.S. carryover stocks for corn and soybeans. Because of the smaller than expected current year South American harvest, global supplies of corn and soybeans are more dependent on this years North American harvest. While plantings of corn increased this year in the U.S., the drought conditions late in the fiscal year have decreased expectations for the size of the current year harvest. These factors, combined with concerns about the European debt situation and ongoing geopolitical uncertainties, contributed to volatile commodity market price movements during this fiscal year. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Net earnings attributable to controlling interests decreased $0.8 billion to $1.2 billion. Segment operating profit declined $1.6 billion to $2.5 billion amid more challenging conditions generally affecting all reportable segments. Segment operating profit in fiscal 2012 included $349 million of asset impairment charges and exit costs comprised of $335 million to exit the Companys Clinton, IA, bioplastics plant and $14 million to shut down its Walhalla, ND, ethanol dry mill. Earnings before income taxes included a credit of $10 million from the effect on LIFO inventory valuation reserves, including the liquidation of LIFO inventory layers, partially offset by increasing agricultural commodity prices, compared to charges of $368 million in the prior year. Fiscal 2012 unallocated corporate expenses included $71 million of charges related to the Companys global workforce reduction program. Income taxes decreased $0.5 billion due to lower earnings before income taxes and a lower effective income tax rate. The Companys effective income tax rate declined to 29.6% compared to 33.1% in the prior year primarily due to income tax benefits associated with foreign currency re measurement of non monetary assets partially offset by a geographic mix of earnings that shifted more to foreign jurisdictions. Analysis of Statements of Earnings Net sales and other operating income by segment are as follows: 2012 2011 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing and Origination $ 18,794 $ 16,518 $ 2,276 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel, and Other 11,628 9,476 2,152 Cocoa and Other 3,715 3,652 63 Asia 578 262 316 Total Oilseeds Processing 34,715 29,908 4,807 Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 4,793 3,766 1,027 Bioproducts 7,321 6,142 1,179 Total Corn Processing 12,114 9,908 2,206 Agricultural Services Merchandising and Handling 37,631 36,852 779 Transportation 269 222 47 Milling and Other 4,182 3,676 506 Total Agricultural Services 42,082 40,750 1,332 Other Financial 127 110 17 Total Other 127 110 17 Total $ 89,038 $ 80,676 $ 8,362 Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Net sales and other operating income increased $7.0 billion due to higher average selling prices, primarily related to higher underlying commodity costs, and $2.1 billion due to increased sales volumes, including sales volumes from acquisitions, partially offset by changes in foreign currency exchange rates of $0.7 billion. Oilseeds Processing sales increased 16% to $34.7 billion due principally to higher average selling prices of vegetable oils, merchandised commodities, protein meal, and biodiesel and increased sales volumes of biodiesel, protein meal, and peanuts, in part due to the acquisition of Golden Peanut in December 2010. Corn Processing sales increased 22% to $12.1 billion due principally to higher average selling prices of ethanol and sweeteners as well as higher sales volumes of sugar and ethanol. Agricultural Services sales increased 3% to $42.1 billion, due to higher average selling prices of corn and wheat flour partially offset by lower sales volumes, in part due to lower export volumes from the U.S. Cost of products sold increased 12% to $85.4 billion due principally to higher costs of agricultural commodities and, to a lesser extent, increased sales volumes. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates reduced current year cost of products sold by $0.7 billion. Manufacturing expenses increased $0.2 billion due to higher costs for maintenance, employee and benefit related expenses, energy, and chemicals. These higher costs were primarily due to higher production volumes, acquisitions, and higher unit costs for fuels and certain chemicals. Partially offsetting these higher costs was lower depreciation expense, in part due to the Companys change in estimated service lives for machinery and equipment during the second quarter of fiscal 2011. Selling, general, and administrative expenses remained steady at $1.6 billion. Loss provisions mainly due to an unfavorable arbitration award in the Companys Agricultural Services operating segment were partially offset by lower overhead expenses. Asset impairment, exit, and restructuring costs of $437 million were comprised of $349 million in the Corn Processing segment related to the Companys exit from its Clinton, IA, bioplastics business and ethanol dry mill in Walhalla, ND, $71 million in Corporate for the global workforce reduction, and $17 million in Corporate for investment writedown and other facility exit related costs. Interest expense decreased 9% to $441 million primarily due to lower long term debt balances, higher interest expense capitalized on construction projects in progress, and lower interest expense related to uncertain income tax positions. Equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates decreased 13% to $472 million principally due to decreased equity earnings from the Companys equity investee, Gruma, which included a $78 million gain in the prior year related to Grumas disposal of certain assets. Interest income declined 18% to $112 million primarily related to the sale and deconsolidation of the Bank, effective September 30, 2011. Other income net declined $113 million to $17 million due primarily to the absence of income recognized in the prior year period of $71 million for the Golden Peanut Gain and $30 million for gains on interest rate swaps. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Operating profit by segment is as follows: 2012 2011 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing and Origination $ 641 $ 925 $ (284 ) Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel, and Other 295 342 (47 ) Cocoa and Other 183 240 (57 ) Asia 183 183 Total Oilseeds Processing 1,302 1,690 (388 ) Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 335 330 5 Bioproducts (74 ) 749 (823 ) Total Corn Processing 261 1,079 (818 ) Agricultural Services Merchandising and Handling 493 807 (314 ) Transportation 125 117 8 Milling and Other 329 399 (70 ) Total Agricultural Services 947 1,323 (376 ) Other Financial 15 39 (24 ) Total Other 15 39 (24 ) Total Segment Operating Profit 2,525 4,131 (1,606 ) Corporate (see below) (760 ) (1,116 ) 356 Earnings Before Income Taxes $ 1,765 $ 3,015 $ (1,250 ) Corporate results are as follows: 2012 2011 Change (In millions) LIFO credit (charge) $ 10 $ (368 ) $ 378 Interest expense net (423 ) (445 ) 22 Unallocated corporate costs (360 ) (326 ) (34 ) Charges on early extinguishment of debt (4 ) (8 ) 4 Gains (losses) on interest rate swaps 30 (30 ) Other 17 1 16 Total Corporate $ (760 ) $ (1,116 ) $ 356 Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Oilseeds Processing operating profit decreased $0.4 billion to $1.3 billion. Crushing and Origination operating profit decreased $284 million to $641 million primarily due to weaker results in European softseeds, lower results in North American softseeds, and lower North American positioning results. Partially offsetting these lower results, were higher grain origination results in South America driven by higher volumes and favorable positioning. Poor European softseeds results were driven by a small prior year rapeseed crop, positioning losses, and weaker demand for protein meal and oils. North American softseed results declined primarily as a result of lower margins generated from a tight cottonseed supply. Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel, and Other results declined $47 million to $295 million due primarily to declines in biodiesel margins in South America and Europe and lower margins for specialty fats and oils in Europe. These declines were partially offset by improved North American protein specialties and natural health and nutrition results due to higher margins and volumes. Cocoa and Other results declined $57 million to $183 million. Current year results in Cocoa and Other were reduced by $100 million for net unrealized mark to market losses related to certain forward purchase and sales commitments accounted for as derivatives. Last year included $9 million of net unrealized mark to market losses. Excluding these timing effects, cocoa results improved in the current year driven by improved press margins caused by strong cocoa powder demand. The prior year included the $71 million Golden Peanut Gain which was partially offset this year by higher earnings in the Companys peanut business in part due to the first full year of consolidated results for Golden Peanut being reported by the Company in fiscal 2012. Asia results remained steady at $183 million, principally reflecting the Companys share of its results from equity investee, Wilmar. Corn Processing operating results decreased $818 million to $261 million due principally to poor ethanol margins and $349 million in asset impairment charges and exit costs. Excluding the asset impairment and exit costs related to the Companys bioplastics business and Walhalla, ND, ethanol dry grind facility, Corn Processing operating profit of $610 million in the current year represents a decline of $469 million compared to the prior year. Processed volumes were up 5 percent while net corn costs increased compared to last year. Sweeteners and Starches operating profit increased $5 million to $335 million, as higher average selling prices more than offset higher net corn costs. Bioproducts profit decreased $823 million to a loss of $74 million, including the $349 million asset impairment and exit charges. Lower ethanol margins were caused by excess supply as previously offline production restarted while industry demand declined, in part due to slowing export demand. Prior year bioproducts results were enhanced by favorable corn ownership positions, which lowered net corn costs in that period. Bioproducts results in the prior year were negatively impacted by startup costs of $94 million related to the Companys new dry grind ethanol, bioplastic, and glycol plants. Agricultural Services operating profits decreased $376 million to $947 million. Merchandising and Handling earnings decreased primarily due to lower results from U.S. operations. Lower sales volumes were principally the result of the relatively higher cost of U.S. grains and oilseeds in the global market due to lower stocks caused by a smaller U.S. harvest in 2011. This relatively weaker position led to reduced U.S. grain exports. In the prior year, Merchandising and Handling results were positively impacted by higher quantities of U.S. grain exports by the Company. In addition, fiscal 2012 included $40 million of increased loss provisions mainly due to an unfavorable arbitration award. Earnings from Transportation were steady. Last years operating results in Milling and Other operations included a $78 million gain related to Grumas disposal of certain assets. Other financial operating profit decreased $24 million to $15 million mainly due to higher loss provisions at the Companys captive insurance subsidiary related to property and crop risk reserves. Corporate expenses declined $356 million to $760 million this year. The effects of a liquidation of LIFO inventory layers partially offset by increasing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations resulted in a credit of $10 million in the current year compared to a charge of $368 million in the prior year primarily due to higher prices. Corporate interest expense decreased $22 million primarily due to lower interest expense on lower long term debt balances. Unallocated corporate costs include $71 million of costs related to the global workforce reduction program. Excluding these costs, unallocated corporate costs declined $37 million due primarily to lower administrative costs. Corporate other income increased due to higher investment income partially offset by $17 million for investment writedown and facility exit related costs. Also, in the prior year the Company recognized $30 million of gains on interest rate swaps. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) 2011 Compared to 2010 As an agricultural commodity based business, the Company is subject to a variety of market factors which affect the Companys operating results. In 2011, prices for certain agricultural commodities were higher in response to growing global demand and tighter crop supplies. The projections of lower 2011 carryover stocks for certain key commodities, coupled with regional crop supply dislocations for certain commodities, also led to high commodity price volatility. Global demand for agricultural commodities grew in 2011, resulting in increased sales volumes for most of the Companys products. The large 2010 North American harvest resulted in global merchandising, handling, and processing opportunities. Protein meal markets for commercial livestock producers in the U.S., particularly poultry producers, faced challenging conditions. Biodiesel markets in Europe and South America, together with the 2011 extension of the U.S. biodiesel blenders credit, helped support global demand for refined and crude vegetable oils. Sweeteners and starches demand remained strong in 2011 due primarily to U.S. exports of sweeteners and improved demand for industrial starches. Ethanol sales volumes, including increased volumes as the Companys new dry mills ramped up, were supported by favorable gasoline blending economics in the U.S. and good export demand. Net earnings increased $106 million to $2.0 billion due principally to a $794 million increase in segment operating profit partially offset by a negative impact from changing LIFO inventory valuations and higher income taxes. In 2011, the Company successfully managed through significant increases in market prices for most of its agricultural commodity raw materials, resulting in increased segment operating profit. Earnings before income taxes includes charges of $368 million from the effect of increasing agricultural commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuation reserves, compared to credits of $42 million in the prior year caused by decreasing agricultural commodity prices. Income taxes increased $331 million due to a higher effective income tax rate and higher earnings before income taxes. The effective income tax rate of 33.1% for 2011 was the result of changes in the geographic mix of earnings and unfavorable specific tax items. The fully diluted earnings per share calculation for 2011 was impacted by the completion of the Companys debt remarketing related to the $1.75 billion Equity Units. While the approximately 44 million new common shares related to the $1.75 billion Equity Units were not issued until June 1, 2011, the if converted method of accounting for diluted earnings per share required diluted EPS to be calculated as if the Company issued the shares on January 1, 2011, and this assumption resulted in a dilutive impact of $0.04 on earnings per share (See Note 11 in the accompanying consolidated financial statements). Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Analysis of Statements of Earnings Net sales and other operating income by segment are as follows: 2011 2010 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing and Origination $ 16,518 $ 14,411 $ 2,107 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel, and Other 9,476 7,133 2,343 Cocoa and Other 3,652 2,678 974 Asia 262 190 72 Total Oilseeds Processing 29,908 24,412 5,496 Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 3,766 3,264 502 Bioproducts 6,142 4,610 1,532 Total Corn Processing 9,908 7,874 2,034 Agricultural Services Merchandising and Handling 36,852 25,751 11,101 Transportation 222 167 55 Milling and Other 3,676 3,383 293 Total Agricultural Services 40,750 29,301 11,449 Other Financial 110 95 15 Total Other 110 95 15 Total $ 80,676 $ 61,682 $ 18,994 Net sales and other operating income increased $19.0 billion, or 31%, to $80.7 billion. Net sales and other operating income increased $14.2 billion due to higher average selling prices, primarily related to higher underlying commodity costs, and increased $4.8 billion due to increased sales volumes, including sales volumes from acquisitions. Agricultural Services sales increased 39% to $40.8 billion due to higher average selling prices of agricultural commodities and higher global sales volumes. Oilseeds Processing sales increased 23% to $29.9 billion primarily due to higher average selling prices for vegetable oils, soybeans, biodiesel, and protein meal. Corn Processing sales increased 26% to $9.9 billion due to higher average selling prices and increased sales volumes of ethanol and other corn products, in part due to the Companys two new ethanol dry mills coming on line. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Cost of products sold increased 32% to $76.4 billion due to higher costs of agricultural commodities, negative impacts resulting from changes in LIFO inventory valuations, and higher manufacturing costs. Cost of products sold includes charges of $368 million from the effect of increasing agricultural commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuation reserves, compared to credits of $42 million in the prior year caused by decreasing agricultural commodity prices. Manufacturing expenses increased $410 million due primarily to higher processed volumes, including the volumes of the Companys new greenfield operations coming on line, and higher average unit costs for certain chemicals and fuels used in the Companys processing and transportation operations. During the second quarter of fiscal 2011, the Company updated its estimates for service lives of certain of its machinery and equipment assets. This change in estimate resulted in a $133 million decrease in depreciation expense compared to the amount of depreciation expense the Company would have recorded using the previously estimated service lives. Manufacturing expenses included $94 million in fiscal 2011 related to the start up of new plants compared to $110 million in the prior year. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased 15% to $1.6 billion. This increase was due to higher employee related costs and higher administrative expenses. Higher employee related costs principally reflect the increase in number of employees during the year and included higher salaries and wages, higher accruals for performance based compensation and higher benefit expenses. Equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates declined 3% to $542 million. The decline in earnings from the Companys equity investee, Wilmar, was partially offset by higher earnings of the Companys equity investee, Gruma, in part due to a gain on Grumas disposition of certain assets. Interest income increased 8% to $136 million principally resulting from higher interest earned on advances to affiliates. Interest expense increased 14% to $482 million. Interest costs capitalized as a component of major construction projects in progress was $7 million compared to $75 million in the prior year. Interest incurred on long term debt declined $24 million as a result of debt retirements while interest incurred on short term debt increased $15 million due to higher average borrowings driven by higher working capital requirements. Other (income) expense net increased $255 million primarily due to the $71 million gain resulting from the revaluation of the Companys previously held equity interest in Golden Peanut upon acquisition of the remaining 50% interest, gains on interest rate swaps of $30 million compared to a loss of $59 million in the prior year, and a decrease in charges related to early extinguishment of debt from $75 million in the prior year to $15 million in the current year. Income taxes increased $331 million to $997 million due to a higher effective income tax rate and higher pretax earnings. The Companys effective income tax rate increased to 33.1% during 2011 compared to 25.8% in fiscal 2010. The increase in the 2011 rate was primarily due to a geographic mix of earnings that shifted more to the U.S., a higher U.S. effective income tax rate, income tax expense associated with foreign currency re measurement of non monetary assets in Brazil, and adjustments to deferred income tax balances. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Operating profit by segment is as follows: 2011 2010 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing and Origination $ 925 $ 834 $ 91 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel, and Other 342 300 42 Cocoa and Other 240 126 114 Asia 183 291 (108 ) Total Oilseeds Processing 1,690 1,551 139 Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 330 538 (208 ) Bioproducts 749 200 549 Total Corn Processing 1,079 738 341 Agricultural Services Merchandising and Handling 807 562 245 Transportation 117 96 21 Milling and Other 399 344 55 Total Agricultural Services 1,323 1,002 321 Other Financial 39 46 (7 ) Total Other 39 46 (7 ) Total Segment Operating Profit 4,131 3,337 794 Corporate (see below) (1,116 ) (752 ) (364 ) Earnings Before Income Taxes $ 3,015 $ 2,585 $ 430 Corporate results are as follows: 2011 2010 Change (In millions) LIFO credit $ (368 ) $ 42 $ (410 ) Interest expense net (445 ) (381 ) (64 ) Unallocated corporate costs (326 ) (266 ) (60 ) Charges on early extinguishment of debt (8 ) (75 ) 67 Gains (losses) on interest rate swaps 30 (59 ) 89 Other 1 (13 ) 14 Total Corporate $ (1,116 ) $ (752 ) $ (364 ) Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Oilseeds Processing operating profit increased 9% to $1.7 billion. Crushing and Origination results increased $91 million to $925 million. Improved North American crushing results, particularly for cotton seed and canola, were partially offset by lower crushing margins in South America and Europe. Margins globally were enhanced by good positioning and by improved origination results. In South America, fertilizer results improved due to higher margins and volumes. Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel and Other results increased $42 million to $342 million due principally to higher packaged oils margins and improved North American and European biodiesel results. Cocoa and Other results increased $114 million to $240 million primarily due to the $71 million gain on the revaluation of the Companys equity interest in Golden Peanut and higher peanut profits as a result of the December 31, 2010 acquisition of the remaining 50% interest of Golden Peanut. Asia results decreased $108 million due principally to decreased earnings from the Companys equity investee, Wilmar. Corn Processing operating profit increased 46% to $1.1 billion, which includes favorable impacts from ownership positions, which were allocated to sweeteners and starches and bioproducts based on total grind. Sweeteners and Starches operating profit decreased $208 million to $330 million due to higher net corn costs partially offset by higher sales volumes. Sales volumes increased due to U.S. export shipments of sweeteners and improved U.S. demand for industrial starches. Bioproducts operating profit improved $549 million primarily due to higher ethanol sales volumes and higher average selling prices leading to increased ethanol and lysine margins. Bioproducts margins were also enhanced by favorable corn ownership positions. Bioproducts results included startup costs related to the Companys new plants of $94 million in 2011 compared to $107 million in the prior year. Agricultural Services operating profit increased 32% to $1.3 billion. Merchandising and Handling results increased due to higher corn and wheat sales volumes and higher margins. A large 2010 U.S. harvest combined with strong international demand resulted in higher U.S. export shipments. Merchandising and Handling results in 2011 included an insurance recovery of $67 million related to property damage and business interruption resulting from an October 2008 explosion at the Companys Destrehan, LA, export facility. International merchandising results were weaker in part due to positions impacted by unexpected shifts in crop supply caused by weather conditions and government actions in the Black Sea region. Transportation results increased $21 million to $117 million primarily due to higher barge freight rates and higher barge utilization levels, in part due to higher U.S. export volumes. Milling and Other results improved due principally to increased equity earnings from the Companys equity investee, Gruma which include a $78 million gain related to Grumas disposal of certain assets. Other financial operating profit decreased 15% to $39 million primarily due to higher captive insurance loss provisions principally related to a $67 million loss related to the Companys Destrehan, LA, export facility insurance claim. Corporate results decreased $364 million primarily due to the negative impact from changing LIFO inventory valuations and higher interest expense net. The effects of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory reserves resulted in charges of $368 million compared to credits of $42 million for the prior year. Corporate interest expense increased $64 million mostly due to lower capitalization of interest costs for construction projects in progress. Partially offsetting the higher LIFO and interest costs were $30 million of gains on interest rate swaps compared to prior year losses on interest rate swaps of $59 million. In addition, 2010 included charges of $75 million on early debt extinguishment compared to $8 million of similar charges in 2011. Liquidity and Capital Resources A Company objective is to have sufficient liquidity, balance sheet strength, and financial flexibility to fund the operating and capital requirements of a capital intensive agricultural commodity based business. The primary source of funds to finance the Companys operations and capital expenditures is cash generated by operations and lines of credit, including a commercial paper borrowing facility. In addition, the Company believes it has access to funds from public and private equity and debt capital markets in both U.S. and international markets. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Cash provided by operating activities was $2.9 billion for the year compared to cash used in operating activities of $2.3 billion last year. Working capital decreased $0.3 billion since the beginning of fiscal 2012 due principally to the $1.0 billion account receivable securitization program discussed below. In fiscal 2011 working capital increased $5.2 billion due principally to higher agricultural commodity prices. Cash used in investing activities was $1.1 billion for the year compared to a $1.7 billion use last year. Capital expenditures were $1.5 billion for the year compared to $1.2 billion last year. The Company spent approximately $0.2 billion on acquisitions in fiscal 2012 and 2011. Related to the sale of the majority interest in Hickory Point Bank, the Company reduced its holdings of marketable securities generating cash of $0.3 billion and divested cash of $0.1 billion as a result of the deconsolidation. In fiscal 2011, net purchases of marketable securities used $0.3 billion of cash. Cash used in financing activities was $1.1 billion for the year compared to cash provided by financing activities of $3.6 billion last year. In fiscal 2012, the Company returned nearly $1.0 billion to shareholders in the form of dividends and share repurchases, including the acquisition of 18.4 million of its common shares for $0.5 billion. In fiscal 2011 net borrowings increased primarily to fund higher working capital. Short term borrowings increased due principally to higher commercial paper borrowings, and long term borrowings increased primarily as a result of the issuance of $1.5 billion of 18 month floating rate notes in February 2011. In addition the Company issued 44 million shares of common stock and received $1.75 billion in fiscal 2011 under the forward stock purchase component of the Companys Equity Units (see Note 10 in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data). At June 30, 2012, the Company had $1.5 billion of cash, cash equivalents, and short term marketable securities and a current ratio, defined as current assets divided by current liabilities, of 1.8 to 1. Included in working capital is $7.8 billion of readily marketable commodity inventories. At June 30, 2012, the Companys capital resources included net worth of $18.2 billion and lines of credit totaling $6.5 billion, of which $4.4 billion was unused. The Companys ratio of long term debt to total capital (the sum of the Companys long term debt and shareholders equity) was 26% at June 30, 2012 and 30% at June 30, 2011. This ratio is a measure of the Companys long term indebtedness and is an indicator of financial flexibility. Of the Companys total lines of credit, $4.3 billion support a commercial paper borrowing facility, against which there were $1.3 billion of commercial paper outstanding at June 30, 2012. In August 2012, the Company added a $2.0 billion credit facility which will support commercial paper borrowings. On March 27, 2012, the Company entered into an amendment of its accounts receivable securitization program (as amended, the Program) with certain commercial paper conduit purchasers and committed purchasers (collectively, the Purchasers). The Program provides the Company with up to $1.0 billion in funding against accounts receivable transferred into the Program and expands the Companys access to liquidity through efficient use of its balance sheet assets. Under the Program, certain U.S. originated trade accounts receivable are sold to a wholly owned bankruptcy remote entity, ADM Receivables, LLC (ADM Receivables). ADM Receivables in turn transfers such purchased accounts receivable in their entirety to the Purchasers pursuant to a receivables purchase agreement. In exchange for the transfer of the accounts receivable, ADM Receivables receives a cash payment of up to $1.0 billion and an additional amount upon the collection of the accounts receivable (deferred consideration). ADM Receivables uses the cash proceeds from the transfer of receivables to the Purchasers and other consideration to finance the purchase of receivables from the Company and the ADM subsidiaries originating the receivables. The Company acts as master servicer, responsible for servicing and collecting the accounts receivable under the Program. The Program terminates on June 28, 2013 (see Note 20 for more information and disclosures on the Program). As of June 30, 2012, the fair value of trade receivables transferred to the Purchasers under the Program and derecognized from the Companys consolidated balance sheet was $1.6 billion. In exchange for the transfer, the Company received cash of $1.0 billion and recorded a receivable for deferred consideration included in other current assets. The Company has outstanding $1.4 billion principal amount of floating rate notes due on August 13, 2012. Interest on the notes accrues at a floating rate three month LIBOR reset quarterly plus 0.16% and is paid quarterly. As of June 30, 2012, the interest rate on the notes was 0.63%. In August 2012, the Company paid these notes with funds available from short term borrowings. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) The Company has outstanding $1.15 billion principal amount of convertible senior notes. As of June 30, 2012, none of the conditions permitting conversion of these notes had been satisfied. The Company has purchased call options and warrants intended to reduce the potential shareholder dilution upon future conversion of the notes. As of June 30, 2012, the market price of the Companys common stock was not greater than the exercise price of the purchased call options or warrants related to the convertible senior notes. The Company is currently experiencing generally higher prices for agricultural commodities as a result of tightening crop supplies, mostly due to weather impacts on current year U.S. corn and soybean crop production. Higher prices of commodities have historically correlated with increases in the Companys working capital requirements. The Company depends on access to credit markets, which can be impacted by its credit rating and factors outside of the Companys control, such as the European debt situation, to fund its working capital needs and capital expenditures. The Company expects capital expenditures to range from $0.5 billion to $0.6 billion for the upcoming 6 month period ending December 31, 2012. On November 5, 2009, the Companys Board of Directors approved a stock repurchase program authorizing the Company to repurchase up to 100,000,000 shares of the Companys common stock during the period commencing January 1, 2010 and ending December 31, 2014. The Company has acquired approximately 31.6 million shares under this program, resulting in remaining approval to acquire 68.4 million shares. The Companys credit facilities and certain debentures require the Company to comply with specified financial and non financial covenants including maintenance of minimum tangible net worth as well as limitations related to incurring liens, secured debt, and certain other financing arrangements. The Company is in compliance with these covenants as of June 30, 2012. Contractual Obligations In the normal course of business, the Company enters into contracts and commitments which obligate the Company to make payments in the future. The following table sets forth the Companys significant future obligations by time period. Purchases include commodity based contracts entered into in the normal course of business, which are further described in Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, energy related purchase contracts entered into in the normal course of business, and other purchase obligations related to the Companys normal business activities. The following table does not include unrecognized income tax benefits of $80 million as of June 30, 2012 as the Company is unable to reasonably estimate the timing of settlement. Where applicable, information included in the Companys consolidated financial statements and notes is cross referenced in this table. Payments Due by Period Contractual Item 8 Note Less than 1 3 3 5 More than Obligations Reference Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years (In millions) Purchases Inventories $ 17,724 $ 17,307 $ 211 $ 130 $ 76 Energy 866 390 233 87 156 Other 242 145 86 10 1 Total purchases 18,832 17,842 530 227 233 Short term debt 2,108 2,108 Long term debt Note 10 8,212 1,677 1,114 320 5,101 Estimated interest payments 6,688 374 650 636 5,028 Operating leases Note 16 1,135 244 365 263 263 Estimated pension and other postretirement plan contributions (1) Note 17 188 64 23 25 76 Total $ 37,163 $ 22,309 $ 2,682 $ 1,471 $ 10,701 (1) Includes pension contributions of $53 million for fiscal 2013. The Company is unable to estimate the amount of pension contributions beyond fiscal year 2013. For more information concerning the Companys pension and other postretirement plans, see Note 17 in Item 8. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) At June 30, 2012, the Company estimates it will spend approximately $2.1 billion through calendar year 2015 to complete currently approved capital projects which are not included in the table above. The Company also has outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds of $644 million at June 30, 2012. In addition, the Company has entered into agreements, primarily debt guarantee agreements related to equity method investees, which could obligate the Company to make future payments. The Companys liability under these agreements arises only if the primary entity fails to perform its contractual obligation. The Company has collateral for a portion of these contingent obligations. At June 30, 2012, these contingent obligations totaled approximately $30 million. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements On March 27, 2012, the Company entered into an amendment of its accounts receivable securitization program (as amended, the Program) with certain commercial paper conduit purchasers and committed purchasers (collectively, the Purchasers). Under the Program, certain U.S. originated trade accounts receivable are sold to a wholly owned bankruptcy remote entity, ADM Receivables, LLC (ADM Receivables). ADM Receivables in turn transfers such purchased accounts receivable in their entirety to the Purchasers pursuant to a receivables purchase agreement. In exchange for the transfer of the accounts receivable, ADM Receivables receives a cash payment of up to $1.0 billion and an additional amount upon the collection of the accounts receivable (deferred consideration). ADM Receivables uses the cash proceeds from the transfer of receivables to the Purchasers and other consideration to finance the purchase of receivables from the Company and the ADM subsidiaries originating the receivables. The Company accounts for these transfers as sales. The Company has no retained interests in the transferred receivables, other than collection and administrative responsibilities and its right to the deferred consideration. At June 30, 2012, the Company did not record a servicing asset or liability related to its retained responsibility, based on its assessment of the servicing fee, market values for similar transactions and its cost of servicing the receivables sold. The Program terminates on June 28, 2013. As of June 30, 2012, the fair value of trade receivables transferred to the Purchasers under the Program and derecognized from the Companys consolidated balance sheet was $1.6 billion. In exchange for the transfer, the Company received cash of $1.0 billion and recorded a receivable for deferred consideration included in other current assets. Cash collections from customers on receivables sold were $8.9 billion for the four months ended June 30, 2012. Of this amount, $8.9 billion pertains to cash collections on the deferred consideration. Deferred consideration is paid to the Company in cash on behalf of the Purchasers as receivables are collected; however, as this is a revolving facility, cash collected from the Companys customers is reinvested by the Purchasers daily in new receivable purchases under the Program. The Companys risk of loss following the transfer of accounts receivable under the Program is limited to the deferred consideration outstanding, which is classified as other current assets and was $0.6 billion at June 30, 2012. The Company carries the deferred consideration at fair value determined by calculating the expected amount of cash to be received and is principally based on observable inputs (a Level 2 measurement under ASC 820) consisting mainly of the face amount of the receivables adjusted for anticipated credit losses and discounted at the appropriate market rate. Payment of deferred consideration is not subject to significant risks other than delinquencies and credit losses on accounts receivable transferred under the program which have historically been insignificant. Transfers of receivables under the Program during the year ended June 30, 2012 resulted in an expense for the loss on sale of $4 million which is classified as selling, general, and administrative expenses in the consolidated statements of earnings. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Critical Accounting Policies The process of preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the carrying values of the Companys assets and liabilities as well as the recognition of revenues and expenses. These estimates and judgments are based on the Companys historical experience and managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Certain of the Companys accounting policies are considered critical, as these policies are important to the depiction of the Companys financial statements and require significant or complex judgment by management. Management has discussed with the Companys Audit Committee the development, selection, disclosure, and application of these critical accounting policies. Following are the accounting policies management considers critical to the Companys financial statements. Fair Value Measurements Inventories and Derivatives Certain of the Companys assets and liabilities as of June 30, 2012 are valued at estimated fair values, including $6.8 billion of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, $3.1 billion of derivative assets, $3.0 billion of derivative liabilities, and $0.3 billion of inventory related payables. Derivative assets and liabilities include forward fixed price purchase and sale contracts for agricultural commodities, forward foreign exchange contracts, and over the counter instruments such as options contracts. The merchandisable agricultural commodities are freely traded, have quoted market prices, and may be sold without significant additional processing. Management estimates fair value for its commodity related assets and liabilities based on exchange quoted prices, adjusted for differences in local markets. The Companys fair value measurements are mainly based on observable market quotations without significant adjustments and are therefore reported as Level 1 or Level 2 within the fair value hierarchy. Level 3 fair value measurements represent fair value estimates where unobservable price components represent 10% or more of the total fair value price. For more information concerning amounts reported as Level 3, see Note 3 in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Changes in the market values of these inventories and contracts are recognized in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. If management used different methods or factors to estimate market value, amounts reported as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. Additionally, if market conditions change subsequent to year end, amounts reported in future periods as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. Derivatives Designated Hedging Activities The Company, from time to time, uses derivative contracts designated as cash flow hedges to fix the purchase price of anticipated volumes of commodities to be purchased and processed in a future month, to fix the purchase price of the Companys anticipated natural gas requirements for certain production facilities, and to fix the sales price of anticipated volumes of ethanol. These designated hedging programs principally relate to the Companys Corn Processing operating segment. The change in the market value of such derivative contracts has historically been, and is expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold and net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. If it is determined that the derivative instruments used are no longer effective at offsetting changes in the price of the hedged item, then the changes in the market value of these exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts would be recorded immediately in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. See Note 4 in Item 8 for additional information. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Investments in Affiliates The Company applies the equity method of accounting for investments over which the Company has the ability to exercise significant influence, including its 16.4% investment in Wilmar. These investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings and are adjusted, where appropriate, for amortizable basis differences between the investment balance and the underlying net assets of the investee. Generally, the minimum ownership threshold for asserting significant influence is 20% ownership of the investee. However, the Company considers all relevant factors in determining its ability to assert significant influence including but not limited to, ownership percentage, board membership, customer and vendor relationships, and other arrangements. If management used a different accounting method for these investments, then the amount of earnings from affiliates the Company recognizes may differ. Income Taxes The Company frequently faces challenges from U.S. and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company records reserves for estimates of potential additional tax owed by the Company. As an example, a subsidiary of the Company received tax assessments in the amount of $570 million consisting of tax, penalty, and interest (adjusted for interest and variation in currency exchange rates) from the Brazilian Federal Revenue Service challenging the deductibility of commodity hedging losses incurred by the Company for tax years 2004, 2006 and 2007. The Company evaluated its tax position regarding these hedging transactions and concluded, based in part upon advice from Brazilian legal counsel, that it was appropriate to recognize the tax benefits of these deductions (see Note 15 in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for additional information). Deferred tax assets represent items to be used as tax deductions or credits in future tax returns, and the related tax benefit has already been recognized in the Companys income statement. The realization of the Companys deferred tax assets is dependent upon future taxable income in specific tax jurisdictions, the timing and amount of which are uncertain. The Company evaluates all available positive and negative evidence including estimated future reversals of existing temporary differences, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies, and recent financial results. Valuation allowances related to these deferred tax assets have been established to the extent the realization of the tax benefit is not likely. To the extent the Company were to favorably resolve matters for which accruals have been established or be required to pay amounts in excess of the aforementioned reserves, the Companys effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be impacted. Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and the Companys share of the undistributed earnings of affiliated corporate joint venture companies accounted for on the equity method amounting to approximately $7.2 billion at June 30, 2012, are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Property, Plant, and Equipment and Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand, changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned factors may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and cash flows of the Companys assets in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its facilities. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment, technology, and companies related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. Assets are written down after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these assets, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. During 2012, 2011, and 2010, impairment charges were $367 million, $2 million, and $9 million, respectively (see Note 19 for additional information on charges taken in 2012). Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets Goodwill and intangible assets deemed to have indefinite lives are not amortized but are subject to annual impairment tests. The Company evaluates goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year or whenever there are indicators that the carrying value of the assets may not be fully recoverable. Definite lived intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives and are reviewed for impairment whenever there are indicators that the carrying value of the assets may not be fully recoverable. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its impairment tests, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Employee Benefit Plans The Company provides substantially all U.S. employees and employees at certain international subsidiaries with pension benefits. Eligible U.S. employees with five or more years of service prior to January 1, 2009 participate in a defined benefit pension plan. Eligible U.S. employees hired on or after January 1, 2009 (and eligible salaried employees with less than five years of service prior to January 1, 2009) participate in a cash balance pension formula. The Company provides eligible U.S. employees who retire under qualifying conditions with access to postretirement health care, at full cost to the retiree (certain employees are grandfathered into subsidized coverage). In order to measure the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans, management makes several estimates and assumptions, including interest rates used to discount certain liabilities, rates of return on assets set aside to fund these plans, rates of compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and anticipated future health care costs. These estimates and assumptions are based on the Companys historical experience combined with managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Management also uses third party actuaries to assist in measuring the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans. If management used different estimates and assumptions regarding these plans, the funded status of the plans could vary significantly, and the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. See Note 17 in Item 8 for additional information. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in: commodity market prices as they relate to the Companys net commodity position, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and prices of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to factors such as changes in weather conditions, crop disease, plantings, government programs and policies, competition, changes in global demand, changes in customer preferences and standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. The Company manages its exposure to adverse price movements of agricultural commodities used for, and produced in, its business operations, by entering into derivative and non derivative contracts which reduce the Companys overall short or long commodity position. Additionally, the Company uses exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the correlation between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contract defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company, from time to time, enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed designated hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold or net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. The Companys commodity position consists of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, related purchase and sales contracts, energy and freight contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts including contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements, net of sales. The fair value of the Companys commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing all of the commodity positions at quoted market prices for the period, where available, or utilizing a close proxy. The Company has established metrics to monitor the amount of market risk exposure, which consist of volumetric limits, and value at risk (VaR) limits. VaR measures the potential loss, at a 95% confidence level, that could be incurred over a one year period. Volumetric limits are monitored daily and VaR calculations and sensitivity analysis are monitored weekly. In addition to measuring the hypothetical loss resulting from an adverse two standard deviation move in market prices (assuming no correlations) over a one year period using VaR, sensitivity analysis is performed measuring the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in market prices. The highest, lowest, and average weekly position for each of the last two years together with the market risk from a hypothetical 10% adverse price change is as follows: 2012 2011 Long/(Short) Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest position $ 1,477 $ 148 $ 2,388 $ 239 Lowest position (383 ) (38 ) 368 37 Average position 546 55 1,644 164 The decline in fair value of the average position for 2012 compared to 2011 was principally the result of the decline in average quantities underlying the weekly commodity position. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) Currencies The Company has consolidated subsidiaries in over 75 countries. For the majority of the Companys subsidiaries located outside the United States, the local currency is the functional currency. To reduce the risks associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, the Company enters into currency exchange contracts to minimize its foreign currency position related to transactions denominated primarily in Euro, British pound, Canadian dollar, and Brazilian real currencies. These currencies represent the major functional or local currencies in which recurring business transactions occur. The Company does not use currency exchange contracts as hedges against amounts permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The currency exchange contracts used are forward contracts, swaps with banks, exchange traded futures contracts, and over the counter options. The changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $7.2 billion at June 30, 2012, and $8.2 billion at June 30, 2011. This decrease is due to the depreciation of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar partially offset by an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The potential loss in fair value, which would principally be recognized in Other Comprehensive Income, resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $722 million and $823 million for 2012 and 2011, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 50 basis points decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2012 2011 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 8,057 $ 9,108 Excess of fair value over carrying value 1,522 842 Market risk 422 333 The decrease in fair value of long term debt in 2012 resulted principally from the reclassification of $1.5 billion in floating rate notes to short term debt partially offset by decreased interest rates. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Net earnings attributable to controlling interests decreased $0.8 billion to $1.2 billion. Segment operating profit declined $1.6 billion to $2.5 billion amid more challenging conditions generally affecting all reportable segments. Segment operating profit in fiscal 2012 included $349 million of asset impairment charges and exit costs comprised of $335 million to exit the Companys Clinton, IA, bioplastics plant and $14 million to shut down its Walhalla, ND, ethanol dry mill. Earnings before income taxes included a credit of $10 million from the effect on LIFO inventory valuation reserves, including the liquidation of LIFO inventory layers, partially offset by increasing agricultural commodity prices, compared to charges of $368 million in the prior year. Fiscal 2012 unallocated corporate expenses included $71 million of charges related to the Companys global workforce reduction program. Income taxes decreased $0.5 billion due to lower earnings before income taxes and a lower effective income tax rate. The Companys effective income tax rate declined to 29.6% compared to 33.1% in the prior year primarily due to income tax benefits associated with foreign currency re measurement of non monetary assets partially offset by a geographic mix of earnings that shifted more to foreign jurisdictions. Analysis of Statements of Earnings Net sales and other operating income by segment are as follows: 2012 2011 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing and Origination $ 18,794 $ 16,518 $ 2,276 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel, and Other 11,628 9,476 2,152 Cocoa and Other 3,715 3,652 63 Asia 578 262 316 Total Oilseeds Processing 34,715 29,908 4,807 Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 4,793 3,766 1,027 Bioproducts 7,321 6,142 1,179 Total Corn Processing 12,114 9,908 2,206 Agricultural Services Merchandising and Handling 37,631 36,852 779 Transportation 269 222 47 Milling and Other 4,182 3,676 506 Total Agricultural Services 42,082 40,750 1,332 Other Financial 127 110 17 Total Other 127 110 17 Total $ 89,038 $ 80,676 $ 8,362 Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Net sales and other operating income increased $7.0 billion due to higher average selling prices, primarily related to higher underlying commodity costs, and $2.1 billion due to increased sales volumes, including sales volumes from acquisitions, partially offset by changes in foreign currency exchange rates of $0.7 billion. Oilseeds Processing sales increased 16% to $34.7 billion due principally to higher average selling prices of vegetable oils, merchandised commodities, protein meal, and biodiesel and increased sales volumes of biodiesel, protein meal, and peanuts, in part due to the acquisition of Golden Peanut in December 2010. Corn Processing sales increased 22% to $12.1 billion due principally to higher average selling prices of ethanol and sweeteners as well as higher sales volumes of sugar and ethanol. Agricultural Services sales increased 3% to $42.1 billion, due to higher average selling prices of corn and wheat flour partially offset by lower sales volumes, in part due to lower export volumes from the U.S. Cost of products sold increased 12% to $85.4 billion due principally to higher costs of agricultural commodities and, to a lesser extent, increased sales volumes. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates reduced current year cost of products sold by $0.7 billion. Manufacturing expenses increased $0.2 billion due to higher costs for maintenance, employee and benefit related expenses, energy, and chemicals. These higher costs were primarily due to higher production volumes, acquisitions, and higher unit costs for fuels and certain chemicals. Partially offsetting these higher costs was lower depreciation expense, in part due to the Companys change in estimated service lives for machinery and equipment during the second quarter of fiscal 2011. Selling, general, and administrative expenses remained steady at $1.6 billion. Loss provisions mainly due to an unfavorable arbitration award in the Companys Agricultural Services operating segment were partially offset by lower overhead expenses. Asset impairment, exit, and restructuring costs of $437 million were comprised of $349 million in the Corn Processing segment related to the Companys exit from its Clinton, IA, bioplastics business and ethanol dry mill in Walhalla, ND, $71 million in Corporate for the global workforce reduction, and $17 million in Corporate for investment writedown and other facility exit related costs. Interest expense decreased 9% to $441 million primarily due to lower long term debt balances, higher interest expense capitalized on construction projects in progress, and lower interest expense related to uncertain income tax positions. Equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates decreased 13% to $472 million principally due to decreased equity earnings from the Companys equity investee, Gruma, which included a $78 million gain in the prior year related to Grumas disposal of certain assets. Interest income declined 18% to $112 million primarily related to the sale and deconsolidation of the Bank, effective September 30, 2011. Other income net declined $113 million to $17 million due primarily to the absence of income recognized in the prior year period of $71 million for the Golden Peanut Gain and $30 million for gains on interest rate swaps. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Operating profit by segment is as follows: 2012 2011 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing and Origination $ 641 $ 925 $ (284 ) Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel, and Other 295 342 (47 ) Cocoa and Other 183 240 (57 ) Asia 183 183 Total Oilseeds Processing 1,302 1,690 (388 ) Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 335 330 5 Bioproducts (74 ) 749 (823 ) Total Corn Processing 261 1,079 (818 ) Agricultural Services Merchandising and Handling 493 807 (314 ) Transportation 125 117 8 Milling and Other 329 399 (70 ) Total Agricultural Services 947 1,323 (376 ) Other Financial 15 39 (24 ) Total Other 15 39 (24 ) Total Segment Operating Profit 2,525 4,131 (1,606 ) Corporate (see below) (760 ) (1,116 ) 356 Earnings Before Income Taxes $ 1,765 $ 3,015 $ (1,250 ) Corporate results are as follows: 2012 2011 Change (In millions) LIFO credit (charge) $ 10 $ (368 ) $ 378 Interest expense net (423 ) (445 ) 22 Unallocated corporate costs (360 ) (326 ) (34 ) Charges on early extinguishment of debt (4 ) (8 ) 4 Gains (losses) on interest rate swaps 30 (30 ) Other 17 1 16 Total Corporate $ (760 ) $ (1,116 ) $ 356 Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Oilseeds Processing operating profit decreased $0.4 billion to $1.3 billion. Crushing and Origination operating profit decreased $284 million to $641 million primarily due to weaker results in European softseeds, lower results in North American softseeds, and lower North American positioning results. Partially offsetting these lower results, were higher grain origination results in South America driven by higher volumes and favorable positioning. Poor European softseeds results were driven by a small prior year rapeseed crop, positioning losses, and weaker demand for protein meal and oils. North American softseed results declined primarily as a result of lower margins generated from a tight cottonseed supply. Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel, and Other results declined $47 million to $295 million due primarily to declines in biodiesel margins in South America and Europe and lower margins for specialty fats and oils in Europe. These declines were partially offset by improved North American protein specialties and natural health and nutrition results due to higher margins and volumes. Cocoa and Other results declined $57 million to $183 million. Current year results in Cocoa and Other were reduced by $100 million for net unrealized mark to market losses related to certain forward purchase and sales commitments accounted for as derivatives. Last year included $9 million of net unrealized mark to market losses. Excluding these timing effects, cocoa results improved in the current year driven by improved press margins caused by strong cocoa powder demand. The prior year included the $71 million Golden Peanut Gain which was partially offset this year by higher earnings in the Companys peanut business in part due to the first full year of consolidated results for Golden Peanut being reported by the Company in fiscal 2012. Asia results remained steady at $183 million, principally reflecting the Companys share of its results from equity investee, Wilmar. Corn Processing operating results decreased $818 million to $261 million due principally to poor ethanol margins and $349 million in asset impairment charges and exit costs. Excluding the asset impairment and exit costs related to the Companys bioplastics business and Walhalla, ND, ethanol dry grind facility, Corn Processing operating profit of $610 million in the current year represents a decline of $469 million compared to the prior year. Processed volumes were up 5 percent while net corn costs increased compared to last year. Sweeteners and Starches operating profit increased $5 million to $335 million, as higher average selling prices more than offset higher net corn costs. Bioproducts profit decreased $823 million to a loss of $74 million, including the $349 million asset impairment and exit charges. Lower ethanol margins were caused by excess supply as previously offline production restarted while industry demand declined, in part due to slowing export demand. Prior year bioproducts results were enhanced by favorable corn ownership positions, which lowered net corn costs in that period. Bioproducts results in the prior year were negatively impacted by startup costs of $94 million related to the Companys new dry grind ethanol, bioplastic, and glycol plants. Agricultural Services operating profits decreased $376 million to $947 million. Merchandising and Handling earnings decreased primarily due to lower results from U.S. operations. Lower sales volumes were principally the result of the relatively higher cost of U.S. grains and oilseeds in the global market due to lower stocks caused by a smaller U.S. harvest in 2011. This relatively weaker position led to reduced U.S. grain exports. In the prior year, Merchandising and Handling results were positively impacted by higher quantities of U.S. grain exports by the Company. In addition, fiscal 2012 included $40 million of increased loss provisions mainly due to an unfavorable arbitration award. Earnings from Transportation were steady. Last years operating results in Milling and Other operations included a $78 million gain related to Grumas disposal of certain assets. Other financial operating profit decreased $24 million to $15 million mainly due to higher loss provisions at the Companys captive insurance subsidiary related to property and crop risk reserves. Corporate expenses declined $356 million to $760 million this year. The effects of a liquidation of LIFO inventory layers partially offset by increasing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations resulted in a credit of $10 million in the current year compared to a charge of $368 million in the prior year primarily due to higher prices. Corporate interest expense decreased $22 million primarily due to lower interest expense on lower long term debt balances. Unallocated corporate costs include $71 million of costs related to the global workforce reduction program. Excluding these costs, unallocated corporate costs declined $37 million due primarily to lower administrative costs. Corporate other income increased due to higher investment income partially offset by $17 million for investment writedown and facility exit related costs. Also, in the prior year the Company recognized $30 million of gains on interest rate swaps. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) 2011 Compared to 2010 As an agricultural commodity based business, the Company is subject to a variety of market factors which affect the Companys operating results. In 2011, prices for certain agricultural commodities were higher in response to growing global demand and tighter crop supplies. The projections of lower 2011 carryover stocks for certain key commodities, coupled with regional crop supply dislocations for certain commodities, also led to high commodity price volatility. Global demand for agricultural commodities grew in 2011, resulting in increased sales volumes for most of the Companys products. The large 2010 North American harvest resulted in global merchandising, handling, and processing opportunities. Protein meal markets for commercial livestock producers in the U.S., particularly poultry producers, faced challenging conditions. Biodiesel markets in Europe and South America, together with the 2011 extension of the U.S. biodiesel blenders credit, helped support global demand for refined and crude vegetable oils. Sweeteners and starches demand remained strong in 2011 due primarily to U.S. exports of sweeteners and improved demand for industrial starches. Ethanol sales volumes, including increased volumes as the Companys new dry mills ramped up, were supported by favorable gasoline blending economics in the U.S. and good export demand. Net earnings increased $106 million to $2.0 billion due principally to a $794 million increase in segment operating profit partially offset by a negative impact from changing LIFO inventory valuations and higher income taxes. In 2011, the Company successfully managed through significant increases in market prices for most of its agricultural commodity raw materials, resulting in increased segment operating profit. Earnings before income taxes includes charges of $368 million from the effect of increasing agricultural commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuation reserves, compared to credits of $42 million in the prior year caused by decreasing agricultural commodity prices. Income taxes increased $331 million due to a higher effective income tax rate and higher earnings before income taxes. The effective income tax rate of 33.1% for 2011 was the result of changes in the geographic mix of earnings and unfavorable specific tax items. The fully diluted earnings per share calculation for 2011 was impacted by the completion of the Companys debt remarketing related to the $1.75 billion Equity Units. While the approximately 44 million new common shares related to the $1.75 billion Equity Units were not issued until June 1, 2011, the if converted method of accounting for diluted earnings per share required diluted EPS to be calculated as if the Company issued the shares on January 1, 2011, and this assumption resulted in a dilutive impact of $0.04 on earnings per share (See Note 11 in the accompanying consolidated financial statements). Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Analysis of Statements of Earnings Net sales and other operating income by segment are as follows: 2011 2010 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing and Origination $ 16,518 $ 14,411 $ 2,107 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel, and Other 9,476 7,133 2,343 Cocoa and Other 3,652 2,678 974 Asia 262 190 72 Total Oilseeds Processing 29,908 24,412 5,496 Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 3,766 3,264 502 Bioproducts 6,142 4,610 1,532 Total Corn Processing 9,908 7,874 2,034 Agricultural Services Merchandising and Handling 36,852 25,751 11,101 Transportation 222 167 55 Milling and Other 3,676 3,383 293 Total Agricultural Services 40,750 29,301 11,449 Other Financial 110 95 15 Total Other 110 95 15 Total $ 80,676 $ 61,682 $ 18,994 Net sales and other operating income increased $19.0 billion, or 31%, to $80.7 billion. Net sales and other operating income increased $14.2 billion due to higher average selling prices, primarily related to higher underlying commodity costs, and increased $4.8 billion due to increased sales volumes, including sales volumes from acquisitions. Agricultural Services sales increased 39% to $40.8 billion due to higher average selling prices of agricultural commodities and higher global sales volumes. Oilseeds Processing sales increased 23% to $29.9 billion primarily due to higher average selling prices for vegetable oils, soybeans, biodiesel, and protein meal. Corn Processing sales increased 26% to $9.9 billion due to higher average selling prices and increased sales volumes of ethanol and other corn products, in part due to the Companys two new ethanol dry mills coming on line. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Cost of products sold increased 32% to $76.4 billion due to higher costs of agricultural commodities, negative impacts resulting from changes in LIFO inventory valuations, and higher manufacturing costs. Cost of products sold includes charges of $368 million from the effect of increasing agricultural commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuation reserves, compared to credits of $42 million in the prior year caused by decreasing agricultural commodity prices. Manufacturing expenses increased $410 million due primarily to higher processed volumes, including the volumes of the Companys new greenfield operations coming on line, and higher average unit costs for certain chemicals and fuels used in the Companys processing and transportation operations. During the second quarter of fiscal 2011, the Company updated its estimates for service lives of certain of its machinery and equipment assets. This change in estimate resulted in a $133 million decrease in depreciation expense compared to the amount of depreciation expense the Company would have recorded using the previously estimated service lives. Manufacturing expenses included $94 million in fiscal 2011 related to the start up of new plants compared to $110 million in the prior year. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased 15% to $1.6 billion. This increase was due to higher employee related costs and higher administrative expenses. Higher employee related costs principally reflect the increase in number of employees during the year and included higher salaries and wages, higher accruals for performance based compensation and higher benefit expenses. Equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates declined 3% to $542 million. The decline in earnings from the Companys equity investee, Wilmar, was partially offset by higher earnings of the Companys equity investee, Gruma, in part due to a gain on Grumas disposition of certain assets. Interest income increased 8% to $136 million principally resulting from higher interest earned on advances to affiliates. Interest expense increased 14% to $482 million. Interest costs capitalized as a component of major construction projects in progress was $7 million compared to $75 million in the prior year. Interest incurred on long term debt declined $24 million as a result of debt retirements while interest incurred on short term debt increased $15 million due to higher average borrowings driven by higher working capital requirements. Other (income) expense net increased $255 million primarily due to the $71 million gain resulting from the revaluation of the Companys previously held equity interest in Golden Peanut upon acquisition of the remaining 50% interest, gains on interest rate swaps of $30 million compared to a loss of $59 million in the prior year, and a decrease in charges related to early extinguishment of debt from $75 million in the prior year to $15 million in the current year. Income taxes increased $331 million to $997 million due to a higher effective income tax rate and higher pretax earnings. The Companys effective income tax rate increased to 33.1% during 2011 compared to 25.8% in fiscal 2010. The increase in the 2011 rate was primarily due to a geographic mix of earnings that shifted more to the U.S., a higher U.S. effective income tax rate, income tax expense associated with foreign currency re measurement of non monetary assets in Brazil, and adjustments to deferred income tax balances. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Operating profit by segment is as follows: 2011 2010 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing and Origination $ 925 $ 834 $ 91 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel, and Other 342 300 42 Cocoa and Other 240 126 114 Asia 183 291 (108 ) Total Oilseeds Processing 1,690 1,551 139 Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 330 538 (208 ) Bioproducts 749 200 549 Total Corn Processing 1,079 738 341 Agricultural Services Merchandising and Handling 807 562 245 Transportation 117 96 21 Milling and Other 399 344 55 Total Agricultural Services 1,323 1,002 321 Other Financial 39 46 (7 ) Total Other 39 46 (7 ) Total Segment Operating Profit 4,131 3,337 794 Corporate (see below) (1,116 ) (752 ) (364 ) Earnings Before Income Taxes $ 3,015 $ 2,585 $ 430 Corporate results are as follows: 2011 2010 Change (In millions) LIFO credit $ (368 ) $ 42 $ (410 ) Interest expense net (445 ) (381 ) (64 ) Unallocated corporate costs (326 ) (266 ) (60 ) Charges on early extinguishment of debt (8 ) (75 ) 67 Gains (losses) on interest rate swaps 30 (59 ) 89 Other 1 (13 ) 14 Total Corporate $ (1,116 ) $ (752 ) $ (364 ) Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Oilseeds Processing operating profit increased 9% to $1.7 billion. Crushing and Origination results increased $91 million to $925 million. Improved North American crushing results, particularly for cotton seed and canola, were partially offset by lower crushing margins in South America and Europe. Margins globally were enhanced by good positioning and by improved origination results. In South America, fertilizer results improved due to higher margins and volumes. Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel and Other results increased $42 million to $342 million due principally to higher packaged oils margins and improved North American and European biodiesel results. Cocoa and Other results increased $114 million to $240 million primarily due to the $71 million gain on the revaluation of the Companys equity interest in Golden Peanut and higher peanut profits as a result of the December 31, 2010 acquisition of the remaining 50% interest of Golden Peanut. Asia results decreased $108 million due principally to decreased earnings from the Companys equity investee, Wilmar. Corn Processing operating profit increased 46% to $1.1 billion, which includes favorable impacts from ownership positions, which were allocated to sweeteners and starches and bioproducts based on total grind. Sweeteners and Starches operating profit decreased $208 million to $330 million due to higher net corn costs partially offset by higher sales volumes. Sales volumes increased due to U.S. export shipments of sweeteners and improved U.S. demand for industrial starches. Bioproducts operating profit improved $549 million primarily due to higher ethanol sales volumes and higher average selling prices leading to increased ethanol and lysine margins. Bioproducts margins were also enhanced by favorable corn ownership positions. Bioproducts results included startup costs related to the Companys new plants of $94 million in 2011 compared to $107 million in the prior year. Agricultural Services operating profit increased 32% to $1.3 billion. Merchandising and Handling results increased due to higher corn and wheat sales volumes and higher margins. A large 2010 U.S. harvest combined with strong international demand resulted in higher U.S. export shipments. Merchandising and Handling results in 2011 included an insurance recovery of $67 million related to property damage and business interruption resulting from an October 2008 explosion at the Companys Destrehan, LA, export facility. International merchandising results were weaker in part due to positions impacted by unexpected shifts in crop supply caused by weather conditions and government actions in the Black Sea region. Transportation results increased $21 million to $117 million primarily due to higher barge freight rates and higher barge utilization levels, in part due to higher U.S. export volumes. Milling and Other results improved due principally to increased equity earnings from the Companys equity investee, Gruma which include a $78 million gain related to Grumas disposal of certain assets. Other financial operating profit decreased 15% to $39 million primarily due to higher captive insurance loss provisions principally related to a $67 million loss related to the Companys Destrehan, LA, export facility insurance claim. Corporate results decreased $364 million primarily due to the negative impact from changing LIFO inventory valuations and higher interest expense net. The effects of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory reserves resulted in charges of $368 million compared to credits of $42 million for the prior year. Corporate interest expense increased $64 million mostly due to lower capitalization of interest costs for construction projects in progress. Partially offsetting the higher LIFO and interest costs were $30 million of gains on interest rate swaps compared to prior year losses on interest rate swaps of $59 million. In addition, 2010 included charges of $75 million on early debt extinguishment compared to $8 million of similar charges in 2011. Liquidity and Capital Resources A Company objective is to have sufficient liquidity, balance sheet strength, and financial flexibility to fund the operating and capital requirements of a capital intensive agricultural commodity based business. The primary source of funds to finance the Companys operations and capital expenditures is cash generated by operations and lines of credit, including a commercial paper borrowing facility. In addition, the Company believes it has access to funds from public and private equity and debt capital markets in both U.S. and international markets. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Cash provided by operating activities was $2.9 billion for the year compared to cash used in operating activities of $2.3 billion last year. Working capital decreased $0.3 billion since the beginning of fiscal 2012 due principally to the $1.0 billion account receivable securitization program discussed below. In fiscal 2011 working capital increased $5.2 billion due principally to higher agricultural commodity prices. Cash used in investing activities was $1.1 billion for the year compared to a $1.7 billion use last year. Capital expenditures were $1.5 billion for the year compared to $1.2 billion last year. The Company spent approximately $0.2 billion on acquisitions in fiscal 2012 and 2011. Related to the sale of the majority interest in Hickory Point Bank, the Company reduced its holdings of marketable securities generating cash of $0.3 billion and divested cash of $0.1 billion as a result of the deconsolidation. In fiscal 2011, net purchases of marketable securities used $0.3 billion of cash. Cash used in financing activities was $1.1 billion for the year compared to cash provided by financing activities of $3.6 billion last year. In fiscal 2012, the Company returned nearly $1.0 billion to shareholders in the form of dividends and share repurchases, including the acquisition of 18.4 million of its common shares for $0.5 billion. In fiscal 2011 net borrowings increased primarily to fund higher working capital. Short term borrowings increased due principally to higher commercial paper borrowings, and long term borrowings increased primarily as a result of the issuance of $1.5 billion of 18 month floating rate notes in February 2011. In addition the Company issued 44 million shares of common stock and received $1.75 billion in fiscal 2011 under the forward stock purchase component of the Companys Equity Units (see Note 10 in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data). At June 30, 2012, the Company had $1.5 billion of cash, cash equivalents, and short term marketable securities and a current ratio, defined as current assets divided by current liabilities, of 1.8 to 1. Included in working capital is $7.8 billion of readily marketable commodity inventories. At June 30, 2012, the Companys capital resources included net worth of $18.2 billion and lines of credit totaling $6.5 billion, of which $4.4 billion was unused. The Companys ratio of long term debt to total capital (the sum of the Companys long term debt and shareholders equity) was 26% at June 30, 2012 and 30% at June 30, 2011. This ratio is a measure of the Companys long term indebtedness and is an indicator of financial flexibility. Of the Companys total lines of credit, $4.3 billion support a commercial paper borrowing facility, against which there were $1.3 billion of commercial paper outstanding at June 30, 2012. In August 2012, the Company added a $2.0 billion credit facility which will support commercial paper borrowings. On March 27, 2012, the Company entered into an amendment of its accounts receivable securitization program (as amended, the Program) with certain commercial paper conduit purchasers and committed purchasers (collectively, the Purchasers). The Program provides the Company with up to $1.0 billion in funding against accounts receivable transferred into the Program and expands the Companys access to liquidity through efficient use of its balance sheet assets. Under the Program, certain U.S. originated trade accounts receivable are sold to a wholly owned bankruptcy remote entity, ADM Receivables, LLC (ADM Receivables). ADM Receivables in turn transfers such purchased accounts receivable in their entirety to the Purchasers pursuant to a receivables purchase agreement. In exchange for the transfer of the accounts receivable, ADM Receivables receives a cash payment of up to $1.0 billion and an additional amount upon the collection of the accounts receivable (deferred consideration). ADM Receivables uses the cash proceeds from the transfer of receivables to the Purchasers and other consideration to finance the purchase of receivables from the Company and the ADM subsidiaries originating the receivables. The Company acts as master servicer, responsible for servicing and collecting the accounts receivable under the Program. The Program terminates on June 28, 2013 (see Note 20 for more information and disclosures on the Program). As of June 30, 2012, the fair value of trade receivables transferred to the Purchasers under the Program and derecognized from the Companys consolidated balance sheet was $1.6 billion. In exchange for the transfer, the Company received cash of $1.0 billion and recorded a receivable for deferred consideration included in other current assets. The Company has outstanding $1.4 billion principal amount of floating rate notes due on August 13, 2012. Interest on the notes accrues at a floating rate three month LIBOR reset quarterly plus 0.16% and is paid quarterly. As of June 30, 2012, the interest rate on the notes was 0.63%. In August 2012, the Company paid these notes with funds available from short term borrowings. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) The Company has outstanding $1.15 billion principal amount of convertible senior notes. As of June 30, 2012, none of the conditions permitting conversion of these notes had been satisfied. The Company has purchased call options and warrants intended to reduce the potential shareholder dilution upon future conversion of the notes. As of June 30, 2012, the market price of the Companys common stock was not greater than the exercise price of the purchased call options or warrants related to the convertible senior notes. The Company is currently experiencing generally higher prices for agricultural commodities as a result of tightening crop supplies, mostly due to weather impacts on current year U.S. corn and soybean crop production. Higher prices of commodities have historically correlated with increases in the Companys working capital requirements. The Company depends on access to credit markets, which can be impacted by its credit rating and factors outside of the Companys control, such as the European debt situation, to fund its working capital needs and capital expenditures. The Company expects capital expenditures to range from $0.5 billion to $0.6 billion for the upcoming 6 month period ending December 31, 2012. On November 5, 2009, the Companys Board of Directors approved a stock repurchase program authorizing the Company to repurchase up to 100,000,000 shares of the Companys common stock during the period commencing January 1, 2010 and ending December 31, 2014. The Company has acquired approximately 31.6 million shares under this program, resulting in remaining approval to acquire 68.4 million shares. The Companys credit facilities and certain debentures require the Company to comply with specified financial and non financial covenants including maintenance of minimum tangible net worth as well as limitations related to incurring liens, secured debt, and certain other financing arrangements. The Company is in compliance with these covenants as of June 30, 2012. Contractual Obligations In the normal course of business, the Company enters into contracts and commitments which obligate the Company to make payments in the future. The following table sets forth the Companys significant future obligations by time period. Purchases include commodity based contracts entered into in the normal course of business, which are further described in Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, energy related purchase contracts entered into in the normal course of business, and other purchase obligations related to the Companys normal business activities. The following table does not include unrecognized income tax benefits of $80 million as of June 30, 2012 as the Company is unable to reasonably estimate the timing of settlement. Where applicable, information included in the Companys consolidated financial statements and notes is cross referenced in this table. Payments Due by Period Contractual Item 8 Note Less than 1 3 3 5 More than Obligations Reference Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years (In millions) Purchases Inventories $ 17,724 $ 17,307 $ 211 $ 130 $ 76 Energy 866 390 233 87 156 Other 242 145 86 10 1 Total purchases 18,832 17,842 530 227 233 Short term debt 2,108 2,108 Long term debt Note 10 8,212 1,677 1,114 320 5,101 Estimated interest payments 6,688 374 650 636 5,028 Operating leases Note 16 1,135 244 365 263 263 Estimated pension and other postretirement plan contributions (1) Note 17 188 64 23 25 76 Total $ 37,163 $ 22,309 $ 2,682 $ 1,471 $ 10,701 (1) Includes pension contributions of $53 million for fiscal 2013. The Company is unable to estimate the amount of pension contributions beyond fiscal year 2013. For more information concerning the Companys pension and other postretirement plans, see Note 17 in Item 8. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) At June 30, 2012, the Company estimates it will spend approximately $2.1 billion through calendar year 2015 to complete currently approved capital projects which are not included in the table above. The Company also has outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds of $644 million at June 30, 2012. In addition, the Company has entered into agreements, primarily debt guarantee agreements related to equity method investees, which could obligate the Company to make future payments. The Companys liability under these agreements arises only if the primary entity fails to perform its contractual obligation. The Company has collateral for a portion of these contingent obligations. At June 30, 2012, these contingent obligations totaled approximately $30 million. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements On March 27, 2012, the Company entered into an amendment of its accounts receivable securitization program (as amended, the Program) with certain commercial paper conduit purchasers and committed purchasers (collectively, the Purchasers). Under the Program, certain U.S. originated trade accounts receivable are sold to a wholly owned bankruptcy remote entity, ADM Receivables, LLC (ADM Receivables). ADM Receivables in turn transfers such purchased accounts receivable in their entirety to the Purchasers pursuant to a receivables purchase agreement. In exchange for the transfer of the accounts receivable, ADM Receivables receives a cash payment of up to $1.0 billion and an additional amount upon the collection of the accounts receivable (deferred consideration). ADM Receivables uses the cash proceeds from the transfer of receivables to the Purchasers and other consideration to finance the purchase of receivables from the Company and the ADM subsidiaries originating the receivables. The Company accounts for these transfers as sales. The Company has no retained interests in the transferred receivables, other than collection and administrative responsibilities and its right to the deferred consideration. At June 30, 2012, the Company did not record a servicing asset or liability related to its retained responsibility, based on its assessment of the servicing fee, market values for similar transactions and its cost of servicing the receivables sold. The Program terminates on June 28, 2013. As of June 30, 2012, the fair value of trade receivables transferred to the Purchasers under the Program and derecognized from the Companys consolidated balance sheet was $1.6 billion. In exchange for the transfer, the Company received cash of $1.0 billion and recorded a receivable for deferred consideration included in other current assets. Cash collections from customers on receivables sold were $8.9 billion for the four months ended June 30, 2012. Of this amount, $8.9 billion pertains to cash collections on the deferred consideration. Deferred consideration is paid to the Company in cash on behalf of the Purchasers as receivables are collected; however, as this is a revolving facility, cash collected from the Companys customers is reinvested by the Purchasers daily in new receivable purchases under the Program. The Companys risk of loss following the transfer of accounts receivable under the Program is limited to the deferred consideration outstanding, which is classified as other current assets and was $0.6 billion at June 30, 2012. The Company carries the deferred consideration at fair value determined by calculating the expected amount of cash to be received and is principally based on observable inputs (a Level 2 measurement under ASC 820) consisting mainly of the face amount of the receivables adjusted for anticipated credit losses and discounted at the appropriate market rate. Payment of deferred consideration is not subject to significant risks other than delinquencies and credit losses on accounts receivable transferred under the program which have historically been insignificant. Transfers of receivables under the Program during the year ended June 30, 2012 resulted in an expense for the loss on sale of $4 million which is classified as selling, general, and administrative expenses in the consolidated statements of earnings. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Critical Accounting Policies The process of preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the carrying values of the Companys assets and liabilities as well as the recognition of revenues and expenses. These estimates and judgments are based on the Companys historical experience and managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Certain of the Companys accounting policies are considered critical, as these policies are important to the depiction of the Companys financial statements and require significant or complex judgment by management. Management has discussed with the Companys Audit Committee the development, selection, disclosure, and application of these critical accounting policies. Following are the accounting policies management considers critical to the Companys financial statements. Fair Value Measurements Inventories and Derivatives Certain of the Companys assets and liabilities as of June 30, 2012 are valued at estimated fair values, including $6.8 billion of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, $3.1 billion of derivative assets, $3.0 billion of derivative liabilities, and $0.3 billion of inventory related payables. Derivative assets and liabilities include forward fixed price purchase and sale contracts for agricultural commodities, forward foreign exchange contracts, and over the counter instruments such as options contracts. The merchandisable agricultural commodities are freely traded, have quoted market prices, and may be sold without significant additional processing. Management estimates fair value for its commodity related assets and liabilities based on exchange quoted prices, adjusted for differences in local markets. The Companys fair value measurements are mainly based on observable market quotations without significant adjustments and are therefore reported as Level 1 or Level 2 within the fair value hierarchy. Level 3 fair value measurements represent fair value estimates where unobservable price components represent 10% or more of the total fair value price. For more information concerning amounts reported as Level 3, see Note 3 in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Changes in the market values of these inventories and contracts are recognized in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. If management used different methods or factors to estimate market value, amounts reported as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. Additionally, if market conditions change subsequent to year end, amounts reported in future periods as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. Derivatives Designated Hedging Activities The Company, from time to time, uses derivative contracts designated as cash flow hedges to fix the purchase price of anticipated volumes of commodities to be purchased and processed in a future month, to fix the purchase price of the Companys anticipated natural gas requirements for certain production facilities, and to fix the sales price of anticipated volumes of ethanol. These designated hedging programs principally relate to the Companys Corn Processing operating segment. The change in the market value of such derivative contracts has historically been, and is expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold and net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. If it is determined that the derivative instruments used are no longer effective at offsetting changes in the price of the hedged item, then the changes in the market value of these exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts would be recorded immediately in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. See Note 4 in Item 8 for additional information. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Investments in Affiliates The Company applies the equity method of accounting for investments over which the Company has the ability to exercise significant influence, including its 16.4% investment in Wilmar. These investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings and are adjusted, where appropriate, for amortizable basis differences between the investment balance and the underlying net assets of the investee. Generally, the minimum ownership threshold for asserting significant influence is 20% ownership of the investee. However, the Company considers all relevant factors in determining its ability to assert significant influence including but not limited to, ownership percentage, board membership, customer and vendor relationships, and other arrangements. If management used a different accounting method for these investments, then the amount of earnings from affiliates the Company recognizes may differ. Income Taxes The Company frequently faces challenges from U.S. and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company records reserves for estimates of potential additional tax owed by the Company. As an example, a subsidiary of the Company received tax assessments in the amount of $570 million consisting of tax, penalty, and interest (adjusted for interest and variation in currency exchange rates) from the Brazilian Federal Revenue Service challenging the deductibility of commodity hedging losses incurred by the Company for tax years 2004, 2006 and 2007. The Company evaluated its tax position regarding these hedging transactions and concluded, based in part upon advice from Brazilian legal counsel, that it was appropriate to recognize the tax benefits of these deductions (see Note 15 in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for additional information). Deferred tax assets represent items to be used as tax deductions or credits in future tax returns, and the related tax benefit has already been recognized in the Companys income statement. The realization of the Companys deferred tax assets is dependent upon future taxable income in specific tax jurisdictions, the timing and amount of which are uncertain. The Company evaluates all available positive and negative evidence including estimated future reversals of existing temporary differences, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies, and recent financial results. Valuation allowances related to these deferred tax assets have been established to the extent the realization of the tax benefit is not likely. To the extent the Company were to favorably resolve matters for which accruals have been established or be required to pay amounts in excess of the aforementioned reserves, the Companys effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be impacted. Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and the Companys share of the undistributed earnings of affiliated corporate joint venture companies accounted for on the equity method amounting to approximately $7.2 billion at June 30, 2012, are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Property, Plant, and Equipment and Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand, changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned factors may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and cash flows of the Companys assets in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its facilities. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment, technology, and companies related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. Assets are written down after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these assets, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. During 2012, 2011, and 2010, impairment charges were $367 million, $2 million, and $9 million, respectively (see Note 19 for additional information on charges taken in 2012). Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets Goodwill and intangible assets deemed to have indefinite lives are not amortized but are subject to annual impairment tests. The Company evaluates goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year or whenever there are indicators that the carrying value of the assets may not be fully recoverable. Definite lived intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives and are reviewed for impairment whenever there are indicators that the carrying value of the assets may not be fully recoverable. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its impairment tests, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Employee Benefit Plans The Company provides substantially all U.S. employees and employees at certain international subsidiaries with pension benefits. Eligible U.S. employees with five or more years of service prior to January 1, 2009 participate in a defined benefit pension plan. Eligible U.S. employees hired on or after January 1, 2009 (and eligible salaried employees with less than five years of service prior to January 1, 2009) participate in a cash balance pension formula. The Company provides eligible U.S. employees who retire under qualifying conditions with access to postretirement health care, at full cost to the retiree (certain employees are grandfathered into subsidized coverage). In order to measure the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans, management makes several estimates and assumptions, including interest rates used to discount certain liabilities, rates of return on assets set aside to fund these plans, rates of compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and anticipated future health care costs. These estimates and assumptions are based on the Companys historical experience combined with managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Management also uses third party actuaries to assist in measuring the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans. If management used different estimates and assumptions regarding these plans, the funded status of the plans could vary significantly, and the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. See Note 17 in Item 8 for additional information. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in: commodity market prices as they relate to the Companys net commodity position, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and prices of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to factors such as changes in weather conditions, crop disease, plantings, government programs and policies, competition, changes in global demand, changes in customer preferences and standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. The Company manages its exposure to adverse price movements of agricultural commodities used for, and produced in, its business operations, by entering into derivative and non derivative contracts which reduce the Companys overall short or long commodity position. Additionally, the Company uses exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the correlation between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contract defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company, from time to time, enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed designated hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold or net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. The Companys commodity position consists of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, related purchase and sales contracts, energy and freight contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts including contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements, net of sales. The fair value of the Companys commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing all of the commodity positions at quoted market prices for the period, where available, or utilizing a close proxy. The Company has established metrics to monitor the amount of market risk exposure, which consist of volumetric limits, and value at risk (VaR) limits. VaR measures the potential loss, at a 95% confidence level, that could be incurred over a one year period. Volumetric limits are monitored daily and VaR calculations and sensitivity analysis are monitored weekly. In addition to measuring the hypothetical loss resulting from an adverse two standard deviation move in market prices (assuming no correlations) over a one year period using VaR, sensitivity analysis is performed measuring the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in market prices. The highest, lowest, and average weekly position for each of the last two years together with the market risk from a hypothetical 10% adverse price change is as follows: 2012 2011 Long/(Short) Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest position $ 1,477 $ 148 $ 2,388 $ 239 Lowest position (383 ) (38 ) 368 37 Average position 546 55 1,644 164 The decline in fair value of the average position for 2012 compared to 2011 was principally the result of the decline in average quantities underlying the weekly commodity position. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) Currencies The Company has consolidated subsidiaries in over 75 countries. For the majority of the Companys subsidiaries located outside the United States, the local currency is the functional currency. To reduce the risks associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, the Company enters into currency exchange contracts to minimize its foreign currency position related to transactions denominated primarily in Euro, British pound, Canadian dollar, and Brazilian real currencies. These currencies represent the major functional or local currencies in which recurring business transactions occur. The Company does not use currency exchange contracts as hedges against amounts permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The currency exchange contracts used are forward contracts, swaps with banks, exchange traded futures contracts, and over the counter options. The changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $7.2 billion at June 30, 2012, and $8.2 billion at June 30, 2011. This decrease is due to the depreciation of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar partially offset by an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The potential loss in fair value, which would principally be recognized in Other Comprehensive Income, resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $722 million and $823 million for 2012 and 2011, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 50 basis points decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2012 2011 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 8,057 $ 9,108 Excess of fair value over carrying value 1,522 842 Market risk 422 333 The decrease in fair value of long term debt in 2012 resulted principally from the reclassification of $1.5 billion in floating rate notes to short term debt partially offset by decreased interest rates. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Net sales and other operating income increased $7.0 billion due to higher average selling prices, primarily related to higher underlying commodity costs, and $2.1 billion due to increased sales volumes, including sales volumes from acquisitions, partially offset by changes in foreign currency exchange rates of $0.7 billion. Oilseeds Processing sales increased 16% to $34.7 billion due principally to higher average selling prices of vegetable oils, merchandised commodities, protein meal, and biodiesel and increased sales volumes of biodiesel, protein meal, and peanuts, in part due to the acquisition of Golden Peanut in December 2010. Corn Processing sales increased 22% to $12.1 billion due principally to higher average selling prices of ethanol and sweeteners as well as higher sales volumes of sugar and ethanol. Agricultural Services sales increased 3% to $42.1 billion, due to higher average selling prices of corn and wheat flour partially offset by lower sales volumes, in part due to lower export volumes from the U.S. Cost of products sold increased 12% to $85.4 billion due principally to higher costs of agricultural commodities and, to a lesser extent, increased sales volumes. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates reduced current year cost of products sold by $0.7 billion. Manufacturing expenses increased $0.2 billion due to higher costs for maintenance, employee and benefit related expenses, energy, and chemicals. These higher costs were primarily due to higher production volumes, acquisitions, and higher unit costs for fuels and certain chemicals. Partially offsetting these higher costs was lower depreciation expense, in part due to the Companys change in estimated service lives for machinery and equipment during the second quarter of fiscal 2011. Selling, general, and administrative expenses remained steady at $1.6 billion. Loss provisions mainly due to an unfavorable arbitration award in the Companys Agricultural Services operating segment were partially offset by lower overhead expenses. Asset impairment, exit, and restructuring costs of $437 million were comprised of $349 million in the Corn Processing segment related to the Companys exit from its Clinton, IA, bioplastics business and ethanol dry mill in Walhalla, ND, $71 million in Corporate for the global workforce reduction, and $17 million in Corporate for investment writedown and other facility exit related costs. Interest expense decreased 9% to $441 million primarily due to lower long term debt balances, higher interest expense capitalized on construction projects in progress, and lower interest expense related to uncertain income tax positions. Equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates decreased 13% to $472 million principally due to decreased equity earnings from the Companys equity investee, Gruma, which included a $78 million gain in the prior year related to Grumas disposal of certain assets. Interest income declined 18% to $112 million primarily related to the sale and deconsolidation of the Bank, effective September 30, 2011. Other income net declined $113 million to $17 million due primarily to the absence of income recognized in the prior year period of $71 million for the Golden Peanut Gain and $30 million for gains on interest rate swaps. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Operating profit by segment is as follows: 2012 2011 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing and Origination $ 641 $ 925 $ (284 ) Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel, and Other 295 342 (47 ) Cocoa and Other 183 240 (57 ) Asia 183 183 Total Oilseeds Processing 1,302 1,690 (388 ) Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 335 330 5 Bioproducts (74 ) 749 (823 ) Total Corn Processing 261 1,079 (818 ) Agricultural Services Merchandising and Handling 493 807 (314 ) Transportation 125 117 8 Milling and Other 329 399 (70 ) Total Agricultural Services 947 1,323 (376 ) Other Financial 15 39 (24 ) Total Other 15 39 (24 ) Total Segment Operating Profit 2,525 4,131 (1,606 ) Corporate (see below) (760 ) (1,116 ) 356 Earnings Before Income Taxes $ 1,765 $ 3,015 $ (1,250 ) Corporate results are as follows: 2012 2011 Change (In millions) LIFO credit (charge) $ 10 $ (368 ) $ 378 Interest expense net (423 ) (445 ) 22 Unallocated corporate costs (360 ) (326 ) (34 ) Charges on early extinguishment of debt (4 ) (8 ) 4 Gains (losses) on interest rate swaps 30 (30 ) Other 17 1 16 Total Corporate $ (760 ) $ (1,116 ) $ 356 Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Oilseeds Processing operating profit decreased $0.4 billion to $1.3 billion. Crushing and Origination operating profit decreased $284 million to $641 million primarily due to weaker results in European softseeds, lower results in North American softseeds, and lower North American positioning results. Partially offsetting these lower results, were higher grain origination results in South America driven by higher volumes and favorable positioning. Poor European softseeds results were driven by a small prior year rapeseed crop, positioning losses, and weaker demand for protein meal and oils. North American softseed results declined primarily as a result of lower margins generated from a tight cottonseed supply. Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel, and Other results declined $47 million to $295 million due primarily to declines in biodiesel margins in South America and Europe and lower margins for specialty fats and oils in Europe. These declines were partially offset by improved North American protein specialties and natural health and nutrition results due to higher margins and volumes. Cocoa and Other results declined $57 million to $183 million. Current year results in Cocoa and Other were reduced by $100 million for net unrealized mark to market losses related to certain forward purchase and sales commitments accounted for as derivatives. Last year included $9 million of net unrealized mark to market losses. Excluding these timing effects, cocoa results improved in the current year driven by improved press margins caused by strong cocoa powder demand. The prior year included the $71 million Golden Peanut Gain which was partially offset this year by higher earnings in the Companys peanut business in part due to the first full year of consolidated results for Golden Peanut being reported by the Company in fiscal 2012. Asia results remained steady at $183 million, principally reflecting the Companys share of its results from equity investee, Wilmar. Corn Processing operating results decreased $818 million to $261 million due principally to poor ethanol margins and $349 million in asset impairment charges and exit costs. Excluding the asset impairment and exit costs related to the Companys bioplastics business and Walhalla, ND, ethanol dry grind facility, Corn Processing operating profit of $610 million in the current year represents a decline of $469 million compared to the prior year. Processed volumes were up 5 percent while net corn costs increased compared to last year. Sweeteners and Starches operating profit increased $5 million to $335 million, as higher average selling prices more than offset higher net corn costs. Bioproducts profit decreased $823 million to a loss of $74 million, including the $349 million asset impairment and exit charges. Lower ethanol margins were caused by excess supply as previously offline production restarted while industry demand declined, in part due to slowing export demand. Prior year bioproducts results were enhanced by favorable corn ownership positions, which lowered net corn costs in that period. Bioproducts results in the prior year were negatively impacted by startup costs of $94 million related to the Companys new dry grind ethanol, bioplastic, and glycol plants. Agricultural Services operating profits decreased $376 million to $947 million. Merchandising and Handling earnings decreased primarily due to lower results from U.S. operations. Lower sales volumes were principally the result of the relatively higher cost of U.S. grains and oilseeds in the global market due to lower stocks caused by a smaller U.S. harvest in 2011. This relatively weaker position led to reduced U.S. grain exports. In the prior year, Merchandising and Handling results were positively impacted by higher quantities of U.S. grain exports by the Company. In addition, fiscal 2012 included $40 million of increased loss provisions mainly due to an unfavorable arbitration award. Earnings from Transportation were steady. Last years operating results in Milling and Other operations included a $78 million gain related to Grumas disposal of certain assets. Other financial operating profit decreased $24 million to $15 million mainly due to higher loss provisions at the Companys captive insurance subsidiary related to property and crop risk reserves. Corporate expenses declined $356 million to $760 million this year. The effects of a liquidation of LIFO inventory layers partially offset by increasing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations resulted in a credit of $10 million in the current year compared to a charge of $368 million in the prior year primarily due to higher prices. Corporate interest expense decreased $22 million primarily due to lower interest expense on lower long term debt balances. Unallocated corporate costs include $71 million of costs related to the global workforce reduction program. Excluding these costs, unallocated corporate costs declined $37 million due primarily to lower administrative costs. Corporate other income increased due to higher investment income partially offset by $17 million for investment writedown and facility exit related costs. Also, in the prior year the Company recognized $30 million of gains on interest rate swaps. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) 2011 Compared to 2010 As an agricultural commodity based business, the Company is subject to a variety of market factors which affect the Companys operating results. In 2011, prices for certain agricultural commodities were higher in response to growing global demand and tighter crop supplies. The projections of lower 2011 carryover stocks for certain key commodities, coupled with regional crop supply dislocations for certain commodities, also led to high commodity price volatility. Global demand for agricultural commodities grew in 2011, resulting in increased sales volumes for most of the Companys products. The large 2010 North American harvest resulted in global merchandising, handling, and processing opportunities. Protein meal markets for commercial livestock producers in the U.S., particularly poultry producers, faced challenging conditions. Biodiesel markets in Europe and South America, together with the 2011 extension of the U.S. biodiesel blenders credit, helped support global demand for refined and crude vegetable oils. Sweeteners and starches demand remained strong in 2011 due primarily to U.S. exports of sweeteners and improved demand for industrial starches. Ethanol sales volumes, including increased volumes as the Companys new dry mills ramped up, were supported by favorable gasoline blending economics in the U.S. and good export demand. Net earnings increased $106 million to $2.0 billion due principally to a $794 million increase in segment operating profit partially offset by a negative impact from changing LIFO inventory valuations and higher income taxes. In 2011, the Company successfully managed through significant increases in market prices for most of its agricultural commodity raw materials, resulting in increased segment operating profit. Earnings before income taxes includes charges of $368 million from the effect of increasing agricultural commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuation reserves, compared to credits of $42 million in the prior year caused by decreasing agricultural commodity prices. Income taxes increased $331 million due to a higher effective income tax rate and higher earnings before income taxes. The effective income tax rate of 33.1% for 2011 was the result of changes in the geographic mix of earnings and unfavorable specific tax items. The fully diluted earnings per share calculation for 2011 was impacted by the completion of the Companys debt remarketing related to the $1.75 billion Equity Units. While the approximately 44 million new common shares related to the $1.75 billion Equity Units were not issued until June 1, 2011, the if converted method of accounting for diluted earnings per share required diluted EPS to be calculated as if the Company issued the shares on January 1, 2011, and this assumption resulted in a dilutive impact of $0.04 on earnings per share (See Note 11 in the accompanying consolidated financial statements). Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Analysis of Statements of Earnings Net sales and other operating income by segment are as follows: 2011 2010 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing and Origination $ 16,518 $ 14,411 $ 2,107 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel, and Other 9,476 7,133 2,343 Cocoa and Other 3,652 2,678 974 Asia 262 190 72 Total Oilseeds Processing 29,908 24,412 5,496 Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 3,766 3,264 502 Bioproducts 6,142 4,610 1,532 Total Corn Processing 9,908 7,874 2,034 Agricultural Services Merchandising and Handling 36,852 25,751 11,101 Transportation 222 167 55 Milling and Other 3,676 3,383 293 Total Agricultural Services 40,750 29,301 11,449 Other Financial 110 95 15 Total Other 110 95 15 Total $ 80,676 $ 61,682 $ 18,994 Net sales and other operating income increased $19.0 billion, or 31%, to $80.7 billion. Net sales and other operating income increased $14.2 billion due to higher average selling prices, primarily related to higher underlying commodity costs, and increased $4.8 billion due to increased sales volumes, including sales volumes from acquisitions. Agricultural Services sales increased 39% to $40.8 billion due to higher average selling prices of agricultural commodities and higher global sales volumes. Oilseeds Processing sales increased 23% to $29.9 billion primarily due to higher average selling prices for vegetable oils, soybeans, biodiesel, and protein meal. Corn Processing sales increased 26% to $9.9 billion due to higher average selling prices and increased sales volumes of ethanol and other corn products, in part due to the Companys two new ethanol dry mills coming on line. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Cost of products sold increased 32% to $76.4 billion due to higher costs of agricultural commodities, negative impacts resulting from changes in LIFO inventory valuations, and higher manufacturing costs. Cost of products sold includes charges of $368 million from the effect of increasing agricultural commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuation reserves, compared to credits of $42 million in the prior year caused by decreasing agricultural commodity prices. Manufacturing expenses increased $410 million due primarily to higher processed volumes, including the volumes of the Companys new greenfield operations coming on line, and higher average unit costs for certain chemicals and fuels used in the Companys processing and transportation operations. During the second quarter of fiscal 2011, the Company updated its estimates for service lives of certain of its machinery and equipment assets. This change in estimate resulted in a $133 million decrease in depreciation expense compared to the amount of depreciation expense the Company would have recorded using the previously estimated service lives. Manufacturing expenses included $94 million in fiscal 2011 related to the start up of new plants compared to $110 million in the prior year. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased 15% to $1.6 billion. This increase was due to higher employee related costs and higher administrative expenses. Higher employee related costs principally reflect the increase in number of employees during the year and included higher salaries and wages, higher accruals for performance based compensation and higher benefit expenses. Equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates declined 3% to $542 million. The decline in earnings from the Companys equity investee, Wilmar, was partially offset by higher earnings of the Companys equity investee, Gruma, in part due to a gain on Grumas disposition of certain assets. Interest income increased 8% to $136 million principally resulting from higher interest earned on advances to affiliates. Interest expense increased 14% to $482 million. Interest costs capitalized as a component of major construction projects in progress was $7 million compared to $75 million in the prior year. Interest incurred on long term debt declined $24 million as a result of debt retirements while interest incurred on short term debt increased $15 million due to higher average borrowings driven by higher working capital requirements. Other (income) expense net increased $255 million primarily due to the $71 million gain resulting from the revaluation of the Companys previously held equity interest in Golden Peanut upon acquisition of the remaining 50% interest, gains on interest rate swaps of $30 million compared to a loss of $59 million in the prior year, and a decrease in charges related to early extinguishment of debt from $75 million in the prior year to $15 million in the current year. Income taxes increased $331 million to $997 million due to a higher effective income tax rate and higher pretax earnings. The Companys effective income tax rate increased to 33.1% during 2011 compared to 25.8% in fiscal 2010. The increase in the 2011 rate was primarily due to a geographic mix of earnings that shifted more to the U.S., a higher U.S. effective income tax rate, income tax expense associated with foreign currency re measurement of non monetary assets in Brazil, and adjustments to deferred income tax balances. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Operating profit by segment is as follows: 2011 2010 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing and Origination $ 925 $ 834 $ 91 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel, and Other 342 300 42 Cocoa and Other 240 126 114 Asia 183 291 (108 ) Total Oilseeds Processing 1,690 1,551 139 Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 330 538 (208 ) Bioproducts 749 200 549 Total Corn Processing 1,079 738 341 Agricultural Services Merchandising and Handling 807 562 245 Transportation 117 96 21 Milling and Other 399 344 55 Total Agricultural Services 1,323 1,002 321 Other Financial 39 46 (7 ) Total Other 39 46 (7 ) Total Segment Operating Profit 4,131 3,337 794 Corporate (see below) (1,116 ) (752 ) (364 ) Earnings Before Income Taxes $ 3,015 $ 2,585 $ 430 Corporate results are as follows: 2011 2010 Change (In millions) LIFO credit $ (368 ) $ 42 $ (410 ) Interest expense net (445 ) (381 ) (64 ) Unallocated corporate costs (326 ) (266 ) (60 ) Charges on early extinguishment of debt (8 ) (75 ) 67 Gains (losses) on interest rate swaps 30 (59 ) 89 Other 1 (13 ) 14 Total Corporate $ (1,116 ) $ (752 ) $ (364 ) Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Oilseeds Processing operating profit increased 9% to $1.7 billion. Crushing and Origination results increased $91 million to $925 million. Improved North American crushing results, particularly for cotton seed and canola, were partially offset by lower crushing margins in South America and Europe. Margins globally were enhanced by good positioning and by improved origination results. In South America, fertilizer results improved due to higher margins and volumes. Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel and Other results increased $42 million to $342 million due principally to higher packaged oils margins and improved North American and European biodiesel results. Cocoa and Other results increased $114 million to $240 million primarily due to the $71 million gain on the revaluation of the Companys equity interest in Golden Peanut and higher peanut profits as a result of the December 31, 2010 acquisition of the remaining 50% interest of Golden Peanut. Asia results decreased $108 million due principally to decreased earnings from the Companys equity investee, Wilmar. Corn Processing operating profit increased 46% to $1.1 billion, which includes favorable impacts from ownership positions, which were allocated to sweeteners and starches and bioproducts based on total grind. Sweeteners and Starches operating profit decreased $208 million to $330 million due to higher net corn costs partially offset by higher sales volumes. Sales volumes increased due to U.S. export shipments of sweeteners and improved U.S. demand for industrial starches. Bioproducts operating profit improved $549 million primarily due to higher ethanol sales volumes and higher average selling prices leading to increased ethanol and lysine margins. Bioproducts margins were also enhanced by favorable corn ownership positions. Bioproducts results included startup costs related to the Companys new plants of $94 million in 2011 compared to $107 million in the prior year. Agricultural Services operating profit increased 32% to $1.3 billion. Merchandising and Handling results increased due to higher corn and wheat sales volumes and higher margins. A large 2010 U.S. harvest combined with strong international demand resulted in higher U.S. export shipments. Merchandising and Handling results in 2011 included an insurance recovery of $67 million related to property damage and business interruption resulting from an October 2008 explosion at the Companys Destrehan, LA, export facility. International merchandising results were weaker in part due to positions impacted by unexpected shifts in crop supply caused by weather conditions and government actions in the Black Sea region. Transportation results increased $21 million to $117 million primarily due to higher barge freight rates and higher barge utilization levels, in part due to higher U.S. export volumes. Milling and Other results improved due principally to increased equity earnings from the Companys equity investee, Gruma which include a $78 million gain related to Grumas disposal of certain assets. Other financial operating profit decreased 15% to $39 million primarily due to higher captive insurance loss provisions principally related to a $67 million loss related to the Companys Destrehan, LA, export facility insurance claim. Corporate results decreased $364 million primarily due to the negative impact from changing LIFO inventory valuations and higher interest expense net. The effects of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory reserves resulted in charges of $368 million compared to credits of $42 million for the prior year. Corporate interest expense increased $64 million mostly due to lower capitalization of interest costs for construction projects in progress. Partially offsetting the higher LIFO and interest costs were $30 million of gains on interest rate swaps compared to prior year losses on interest rate swaps of $59 million. In addition, 2010 included charges of $75 million on early debt extinguishment compared to $8 million of similar charges in 2011. Liquidity and Capital Resources A Company objective is to have sufficient liquidity, balance sheet strength, and financial flexibility to fund the operating and capital requirements of a capital intensive agricultural commodity based business. The primary source of funds to finance the Companys operations and capital expenditures is cash generated by operations and lines of credit, including a commercial paper borrowing facility. In addition, the Company believes it has access to funds from public and private equity and debt capital markets in both U.S. and international markets. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Cash provided by operating activities was $2.9 billion for the year compared to cash used in operating activities of $2.3 billion last year. Working capital decreased $0.3 billion since the beginning of fiscal 2012 due principally to the $1.0 billion account receivable securitization program discussed below. In fiscal 2011 working capital increased $5.2 billion due principally to higher agricultural commodity prices. Cash used in investing activities was $1.1 billion for the year compared to a $1.7 billion use last year. Capital expenditures were $1.5 billion for the year compared to $1.2 billion last year. The Company spent approximately $0.2 billion on acquisitions in fiscal 2012 and 2011. Related to the sale of the majority interest in Hickory Point Bank, the Company reduced its holdings of marketable securities generating cash of $0.3 billion and divested cash of $0.1 billion as a result of the deconsolidation. In fiscal 2011, net purchases of marketable securities used $0.3 billion of cash. Cash used in financing activities was $1.1 billion for the year compared to cash provided by financing activities of $3.6 billion last year. In fiscal 2012, the Company returned nearly $1.0 billion to shareholders in the form of dividends and share repurchases, including the acquisition of 18.4 million of its common shares for $0.5 billion. In fiscal 2011 net borrowings increased primarily to fund higher working capital. Short term borrowings increased due principally to higher commercial paper borrowings, and long term borrowings increased primarily as a result of the issuance of $1.5 billion of 18 month floating rate notes in February 2011. In addition the Company issued 44 million shares of common stock and received $1.75 billion in fiscal 2011 under the forward stock purchase component of the Companys Equity Units (see Note 10 in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data). At June 30, 2012, the Company had $1.5 billion of cash, cash equivalents, and short term marketable securities and a current ratio, defined as current assets divided by current liabilities, of 1.8 to 1. Included in working capital is $7.8 billion of readily marketable commodity inventories. At June 30, 2012, the Companys capital resources included net worth of $18.2 billion and lines of credit totaling $6.5 billion, of which $4.4 billion was unused. The Companys ratio of long term debt to total capital (the sum of the Companys long term debt and shareholders equity) was 26% at June 30, 2012 and 30% at June 30, 2011. This ratio is a measure of the Companys long term indebtedness and is an indicator of financial flexibility. Of the Companys total lines of credit, $4.3 billion support a commercial paper borrowing facility, against which there were $1.3 billion of commercial paper outstanding at June 30, 2012. In August 2012, the Company added a $2.0 billion credit facility which will support commercial paper borrowings. On March 27, 2012, the Company entered into an amendment of its accounts receivable securitization program (as amended, the Program) with certain commercial paper conduit purchasers and committed purchasers (collectively, the Purchasers). The Program provides the Company with up to $1.0 billion in funding against accounts receivable transferred into the Program and expands the Companys access to liquidity through efficient use of its balance sheet assets. Under the Program, certain U.S. originated trade accounts receivable are sold to a wholly owned bankruptcy remote entity, ADM Receivables, LLC (ADM Receivables). ADM Receivables in turn transfers such purchased accounts receivable in their entirety to the Purchasers pursuant to a receivables purchase agreement. In exchange for the transfer of the accounts receivable, ADM Receivables receives a cash payment of up to $1.0 billion and an additional amount upon the collection of the accounts receivable (deferred consideration). ADM Receivables uses the cash proceeds from the transfer of receivables to the Purchasers and other consideration to finance the purchase of receivables from the Company and the ADM subsidiaries originating the receivables. The Company acts as master servicer, responsible for servicing and collecting the accounts receivable under the Program. The Program terminates on June 28, 2013 (see Note 20 for more information and disclosures on the Program). As of June 30, 2012, the fair value of trade receivables transferred to the Purchasers under the Program and derecognized from the Companys consolidated balance sheet was $1.6 billion. In exchange for the transfer, the Company received cash of $1.0 billion and recorded a receivable for deferred consideration included in other current assets. The Company has outstanding $1.4 billion principal amount of floating rate notes due on August 13, 2012. Interest on the notes accrues at a floating rate three month LIBOR reset quarterly plus 0.16% and is paid quarterly. As of June 30, 2012, the interest rate on the notes was 0.63%. In August 2012, the Company paid these notes with funds available from short term borrowings. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) The Company has outstanding $1.15 billion principal amount of convertible senior notes. As of June 30, 2012, none of the conditions permitting conversion of these notes had been satisfied. The Company has purchased call options and warrants intended to reduce the potential shareholder dilution upon future conversion of the notes. As of June 30, 2012, the market price of the Companys common stock was not greater than the exercise price of the purchased call options or warrants related to the convertible senior notes. The Company is currently experiencing generally higher prices for agricultural commodities as a result of tightening crop supplies, mostly due to weather impacts on current year U.S. corn and soybean crop production. Higher prices of commodities have historically correlated with increases in the Companys working capital requirements. The Company depends on access to credit markets, which can be impacted by its credit rating and factors outside of the Companys control, such as the European debt situation, to fund its working capital needs and capital expenditures. The Company expects capital expenditures to range from $0.5 billion to $0.6 billion for the upcoming 6 month period ending December 31, 2012. On November 5, 2009, the Companys Board of Directors approved a stock repurchase program authorizing the Company to repurchase up to 100,000,000 shares of the Companys common stock during the period commencing January 1, 2010 and ending December 31, 2014. The Company has acquired approximately 31.6 million shares under this program, resulting in remaining approval to acquire 68.4 million shares. The Companys credit facilities and certain debentures require the Company to comply with specified financial and non financial covenants including maintenance of minimum tangible net worth as well as limitations related to incurring liens, secured debt, and certain other financing arrangements. The Company is in compliance with these covenants as of June 30, 2012. Contractual Obligations In the normal course of business, the Company enters into contracts and commitments which obligate the Company to make payments in the future. The following table sets forth the Companys significant future obligations by time period. Purchases include commodity based contracts entered into in the normal course of business, which are further described in Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, energy related purchase contracts entered into in the normal course of business, and other purchase obligations related to the Companys normal business activities. The following table does not include unrecognized income tax benefits of $80 million as of June 30, 2012 as the Company is unable to reasonably estimate the timing of settlement. Where applicable, information included in the Companys consolidated financial statements and notes is cross referenced in this table. Payments Due by Period Contractual Item 8 Note Less than 1 3 3 5 More than Obligations Reference Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years (In millions) Purchases Inventories $ 17,724 $ 17,307 $ 211 $ 130 $ 76 Energy 866 390 233 87 156 Other 242 145 86 10 1 Total purchases 18,832 17,842 530 227 233 Short term debt 2,108 2,108 Long term debt Note 10 8,212 1,677 1,114 320 5,101 Estimated interest payments 6,688 374 650 636 5,028 Operating leases Note 16 1,135 244 365 263 263 Estimated pension and other postretirement plan contributions (1) Note 17 188 64 23 25 76 Total $ 37,163 $ 22,309 $ 2,682 $ 1,471 $ 10,701 (1) Includes pension contributions of $53 million for fiscal 2013. The Company is unable to estimate the amount of pension contributions beyond fiscal year 2013. For more information concerning the Companys pension and other postretirement plans, see Note 17 in Item 8. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) At June 30, 2012, the Company estimates it will spend approximately $2.1 billion through calendar year 2015 to complete currently approved capital projects which are not included in the table above. The Company also has outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds of $644 million at June 30, 2012. In addition, the Company has entered into agreements, primarily debt guarantee agreements related to equity method investees, which could obligate the Company to make future payments. The Companys liability under these agreements arises only if the primary entity fails to perform its contractual obligation. The Company has collateral for a portion of these contingent obligations. At June 30, 2012, these contingent obligations totaled approximately $30 million. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements On March 27, 2012, the Company entered into an amendment of its accounts receivable securitization program (as amended, the Program) with certain commercial paper conduit purchasers and committed purchasers (collectively, the Purchasers). Under the Program, certain U.S. originated trade accounts receivable are sold to a wholly owned bankruptcy remote entity, ADM Receivables, LLC (ADM Receivables). ADM Receivables in turn transfers such purchased accounts receivable in their entirety to the Purchasers pursuant to a receivables purchase agreement. In exchange for the transfer of the accounts receivable, ADM Receivables receives a cash payment of up to $1.0 billion and an additional amount upon the collection of the accounts receivable (deferred consideration). ADM Receivables uses the cash proceeds from the transfer of receivables to the Purchasers and other consideration to finance the purchase of receivables from the Company and the ADM subsidiaries originating the receivables. The Company accounts for these transfers as sales. The Company has no retained interests in the transferred receivables, other than collection and administrative responsibilities and its right to the deferred consideration. At June 30, 2012, the Company did not record a servicing asset or liability related to its retained responsibility, based on its assessment of the servicing fee, market values for similar transactions and its cost of servicing the receivables sold. The Program terminates on June 28, 2013. As of June 30, 2012, the fair value of trade receivables transferred to the Purchasers under the Program and derecognized from the Companys consolidated balance sheet was $1.6 billion. In exchange for the transfer, the Company received cash of $1.0 billion and recorded a receivable for deferred consideration included in other current assets. Cash collections from customers on receivables sold were $8.9 billion for the four months ended June 30, 2012. Of this amount, $8.9 billion pertains to cash collections on the deferred consideration. Deferred consideration is paid to the Company in cash on behalf of the Purchasers as receivables are collected; however, as this is a revolving facility, cash collected from the Companys customers is reinvested by the Purchasers daily in new receivable purchases under the Program. The Companys risk of loss following the transfer of accounts receivable under the Program is limited to the deferred consideration outstanding, which is classified as other current assets and was $0.6 billion at June 30, 2012. The Company carries the deferred consideration at fair value determined by calculating the expected amount of cash to be received and is principally based on observable inputs (a Level 2 measurement under ASC 820) consisting mainly of the face amount of the receivables adjusted for anticipated credit losses and discounted at the appropriate market rate. Payment of deferred consideration is not subject to significant risks other than delinquencies and credit losses on accounts receivable transferred under the program which have historically been insignificant. Transfers of receivables under the Program during the year ended June 30, 2012 resulted in an expense for the loss on sale of $4 million which is classified as selling, general, and administrative expenses in the consolidated statements of earnings. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Critical Accounting Policies The process of preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the carrying values of the Companys assets and liabilities as well as the recognition of revenues and expenses. These estimates and judgments are based on the Companys historical experience and managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Certain of the Companys accounting policies are considered critical, as these policies are important to the depiction of the Companys financial statements and require significant or complex judgment by management. Management has discussed with the Companys Audit Committee the development, selection, disclosure, and application of these critical accounting policies. Following are the accounting policies management considers critical to the Companys financial statements. Fair Value Measurements Inventories and Derivatives Certain of the Companys assets and liabilities as of June 30, 2012 are valued at estimated fair values, including $6.8 billion of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, $3.1 billion of derivative assets, $3.0 billion of derivative liabilities, and $0.3 billion of inventory related payables. Derivative assets and liabilities include forward fixed price purchase and sale contracts for agricultural commodities, forward foreign exchange contracts, and over the counter instruments such as options contracts. The merchandisable agricultural commodities are freely traded, have quoted market prices, and may be sold without significant additional processing. Management estimates fair value for its commodity related assets and liabilities based on exchange quoted prices, adjusted for differences in local markets. The Companys fair value measurements are mainly based on observable market quotations without significant adjustments and are therefore reported as Level 1 or Level 2 within the fair value hierarchy. Level 3 fair value measurements represent fair value estimates where unobservable price components represent 10% or more of the total fair value price. For more information concerning amounts reported as Level 3, see Note 3 in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Changes in the market values of these inventories and contracts are recognized in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. If management used different methods or factors to estimate market value, amounts reported as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. Additionally, if market conditions change subsequent to year end, amounts reported in future periods as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. Derivatives Designated Hedging Activities The Company, from time to time, uses derivative contracts designated as cash flow hedges to fix the purchase price of anticipated volumes of commodities to be purchased and processed in a future month, to fix the purchase price of the Companys anticipated natural gas requirements for certain production facilities, and to fix the sales price of anticipated volumes of ethanol. These designated hedging programs principally relate to the Companys Corn Processing operating segment. The change in the market value of such derivative contracts has historically been, and is expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold and net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. If it is determined that the derivative instruments used are no longer effective at offsetting changes in the price of the hedged item, then the changes in the market value of these exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts would be recorded immediately in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. See Note 4 in Item 8 for additional information. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Investments in Affiliates The Company applies the equity method of accounting for investments over which the Company has the ability to exercise significant influence, including its 16.4% investment in Wilmar. These investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings and are adjusted, where appropriate, for amortizable basis differences between the investment balance and the underlying net assets of the investee. Generally, the minimum ownership threshold for asserting significant influence is 20% ownership of the investee. However, the Company considers all relevant factors in determining its ability to assert significant influence including but not limited to, ownership percentage, board membership, customer and vendor relationships, and other arrangements. If management used a different accounting method for these investments, then the amount of earnings from affiliates the Company recognizes may differ. Income Taxes The Company frequently faces challenges from U.S. and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company records reserves for estimates of potential additional tax owed by the Company. As an example, a subsidiary of the Company received tax assessments in the amount of $570 million consisting of tax, penalty, and interest (adjusted for interest and variation in currency exchange rates) from the Brazilian Federal Revenue Service challenging the deductibility of commodity hedging losses incurred by the Company for tax years 2004, 2006 and 2007. The Company evaluated its tax position regarding these hedging transactions and concluded, based in part upon advice from Brazilian legal counsel, that it was appropriate to recognize the tax benefits of these deductions (see Note 15 in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for additional information). Deferred tax assets represent items to be used as tax deductions or credits in future tax returns, and the related tax benefit has already been recognized in the Companys income statement. The realization of the Companys deferred tax assets is dependent upon future taxable income in specific tax jurisdictions, the timing and amount of which are uncertain. The Company evaluates all available positive and negative evidence including estimated future reversals of existing temporary differences, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies, and recent financial results. Valuation allowances related to these deferred tax assets have been established to the extent the realization of the tax benefit is not likely. To the extent the Company were to favorably resolve matters for which accruals have been established or be required to pay amounts in excess of the aforementioned reserves, the Companys effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be impacted. Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and the Companys share of the undistributed earnings of affiliated corporate joint venture companies accounted for on the equity method amounting to approximately $7.2 billion at June 30, 2012, are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Property, Plant, and Equipment and Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand, changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned factors may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and cash flows of the Companys assets in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its facilities. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment, technology, and companies related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. Assets are written down after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these assets, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. During 2012, 2011, and 2010, impairment charges were $367 million, $2 million, and $9 million, respectively (see Note 19 for additional information on charges taken in 2012). Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets Goodwill and intangible assets deemed to have indefinite lives are not amortized but are subject to annual impairment tests. The Company evaluates goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year or whenever there are indicators that the carrying value of the assets may not be fully recoverable. Definite lived intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives and are reviewed for impairment whenever there are indicators that the carrying value of the assets may not be fully recoverable. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its impairment tests, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Employee Benefit Plans The Company provides substantially all U.S. employees and employees at certain international subsidiaries with pension benefits. Eligible U.S. employees with five or more years of service prior to January 1, 2009 participate in a defined benefit pension plan. Eligible U.S. employees hired on or after January 1, 2009 (and eligible salaried employees with less than five years of service prior to January 1, 2009) participate in a cash balance pension formula. The Company provides eligible U.S. employees who retire under qualifying conditions with access to postretirement health care, at full cost to the retiree (certain employees are grandfathered into subsidized coverage). In order to measure the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans, management makes several estimates and assumptions, including interest rates used to discount certain liabilities, rates of return on assets set aside to fund these plans, rates of compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and anticipated future health care costs. These estimates and assumptions are based on the Companys historical experience combined with managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Management also uses third party actuaries to assist in measuring the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans. If management used different estimates and assumptions regarding these plans, the funded status of the plans could vary significantly, and the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. See Note 17 in Item 8 for additional information. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in: commodity market prices as they relate to the Companys net commodity position, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and prices of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to factors such as changes in weather conditions, crop disease, plantings, government programs and policies, competition, changes in global demand, changes in customer preferences and standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. The Company manages its exposure to adverse price movements of agricultural commodities used for, and produced in, its business operations, by entering into derivative and non derivative contracts which reduce the Companys overall short or long commodity position. Additionally, the Company uses exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the correlation between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contract defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company, from time to time, enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed designated hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold or net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. The Companys commodity position consists of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, related purchase and sales contracts, energy and freight contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts including contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements, net of sales. The fair value of the Companys commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing all of the commodity positions at quoted market prices for the period, where available, or utilizing a close proxy. The Company has established metrics to monitor the amount of market risk exposure, which consist of volumetric limits, and value at risk (VaR) limits. VaR measures the potential loss, at a 95% confidence level, that could be incurred over a one year period. Volumetric limits are monitored daily and VaR calculations and sensitivity analysis are monitored weekly. In addition to measuring the hypothetical loss resulting from an adverse two standard deviation move in market prices (assuming no correlations) over a one year period using VaR, sensitivity analysis is performed measuring the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in market prices. The highest, lowest, and average weekly position for each of the last two years together with the market risk from a hypothetical 10% adverse price change is as follows: 2012 2011 Long/(Short) Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest position $ 1,477 $ 148 $ 2,388 $ 239 Lowest position (383 ) (38 ) 368 37 Average position 546 55 1,644 164 The decline in fair value of the average position for 2012 compared to 2011 was principally the result of the decline in average quantities underlying the weekly commodity position. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) Currencies The Company has consolidated subsidiaries in over 75 countries. For the majority of the Companys subsidiaries located outside the United States, the local currency is the functional currency. To reduce the risks associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, the Company enters into currency exchange contracts to minimize its foreign currency position related to transactions denominated primarily in Euro, British pound, Canadian dollar, and Brazilian real currencies. These currencies represent the major functional or local currencies in which recurring business transactions occur. The Company does not use currency exchange contracts as hedges against amounts permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The currency exchange contracts used are forward contracts, swaps with banks, exchange traded futures contracts, and over the counter options. The changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $7.2 billion at June 30, 2012, and $8.2 billion at June 30, 2011. This decrease is due to the depreciation of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar partially offset by an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The potential loss in fair value, which would principally be recognized in Other Comprehensive Income, resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $722 million and $823 million for 2012 and 2011, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 50 basis points decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2012 2011 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 8,057 $ 9,108 Excess of fair value over carrying value 1,522 842 Market risk 422 333 The decrease in fair value of long term debt in 2012 resulted principally from the reclassification of $1.5 billion in floating rate notes to short term debt partially offset by decreased interest rates. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Operating profit by segment is as follows: 2012 2011 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing and Origination $ 641 $ 925 $ (284 ) Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel, and Other 295 342 (47 ) Cocoa and Other 183 240 (57 ) Asia 183 183 Total Oilseeds Processing 1,302 1,690 (388 ) Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 335 330 5 Bioproducts (74 ) 749 (823 ) Total Corn Processing 261 1,079 (818 ) Agricultural Services Merchandising and Handling 493 807 (314 ) Transportation 125 117 8 Milling and Other 329 399 (70 ) Total Agricultural Services 947 1,323 (376 ) Other Financial 15 39 (24 ) Total Other 15 39 (24 ) Total Segment Operating Profit 2,525 4,131 (1,606 ) Corporate (see below) (760 ) (1,116 ) 356 Earnings Before Income Taxes $ 1,765 $ 3,015 $ (1,250 ) Corporate results are as follows: 2012 2011 Change (In millions) LIFO credit (charge) $ 10 $ (368 ) $ 378 Interest expense net (423 ) (445 ) 22 Unallocated corporate costs (360 ) (326 ) (34 ) Charges on early extinguishment of debt (4 ) (8 ) 4 Gains (losses) on interest rate swaps 30 (30 ) Other 17 1 16 Total Corporate $ (760 ) $ (1,116 ) $ 356 Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Oilseeds Processing operating profit decreased $0.4 billion to $1.3 billion. Crushing and Origination operating profit decreased $284 million to $641 million primarily due to weaker results in European softseeds, lower results in North American softseeds, and lower North American positioning results. Partially offsetting these lower results, were higher grain origination results in South America driven by higher volumes and favorable positioning. Poor European softseeds results were driven by a small prior year rapeseed crop, positioning losses, and weaker demand for protein meal and oils. North American softseed results declined primarily as a result of lower margins generated from a tight cottonseed supply. Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel, and Other results declined $47 million to $295 million due primarily to declines in biodiesel margins in South America and Europe and lower margins for specialty fats and oils in Europe. These declines were partially offset by improved North American protein specialties and natural health and nutrition results due to higher margins and volumes. Cocoa and Other results declined $57 million to $183 million. Current year results in Cocoa and Other were reduced by $100 million for net unrealized mark to market losses related to certain forward purchase and sales commitments accounted for as derivatives. Last year included $9 million of net unrealized mark to market losses. Excluding these timing effects, cocoa results improved in the current year driven by improved press margins caused by strong cocoa powder demand. The prior year included the $71 million Golden Peanut Gain which was partially offset this year by higher earnings in the Companys peanut business in part due to the first full year of consolidated results for Golden Peanut being reported by the Company in fiscal 2012. Asia results remained steady at $183 million, principally reflecting the Companys share of its results from equity investee, Wilmar. Corn Processing operating results decreased $818 million to $261 million due principally to poor ethanol margins and $349 million in asset impairment charges and exit costs. Excluding the asset impairment and exit costs related to the Companys bioplastics business and Walhalla, ND, ethanol dry grind facility, Corn Processing operating profit of $610 million in the current year represents a decline of $469 million compared to the prior year. Processed volumes were up 5 percent while net corn costs increased compared to last year. Sweeteners and Starches operating profit increased $5 million to $335 million, as higher average selling prices more than offset higher net corn costs. Bioproducts profit decreased $823 million to a loss of $74 million, including the $349 million asset impairment and exit charges. Lower ethanol margins were caused by excess supply as previously offline production restarted while industry demand declined, in part due to slowing export demand. Prior year bioproducts results were enhanced by favorable corn ownership positions, which lowered net corn costs in that period. Bioproducts results in the prior year were negatively impacted by startup costs of $94 million related to the Companys new dry grind ethanol, bioplastic, and glycol plants. Agricultural Services operating profits decreased $376 million to $947 million. Merchandising and Handling earnings decreased primarily due to lower results from U.S. operations. Lower sales volumes were principally the result of the relatively higher cost of U.S. grains and oilseeds in the global market due to lower stocks caused by a smaller U.S. harvest in 2011. This relatively weaker position led to reduced U.S. grain exports. In the prior year, Merchandising and Handling results were positively impacted by higher quantities of U.S. grain exports by the Company. In addition, fiscal 2012 included $40 million of increased loss provisions mainly due to an unfavorable arbitration award. Earnings from Transportation were steady. Last years operating results in Milling and Other operations included a $78 million gain related to Grumas disposal of certain assets. Other financial operating profit decreased $24 million to $15 million mainly due to higher loss provisions at the Companys captive insurance subsidiary related to property and crop risk reserves. Corporate expenses declined $356 million to $760 million this year. The effects of a liquidation of LIFO inventory layers partially offset by increasing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations resulted in a credit of $10 million in the current year compared to a charge of $368 million in the prior year primarily due to higher prices. Corporate interest expense decreased $22 million primarily due to lower interest expense on lower long term debt balances. Unallocated corporate costs include $71 million of costs related to the global workforce reduction program. Excluding these costs, unallocated corporate costs declined $37 million due primarily to lower administrative costs. Corporate other income increased due to higher investment income partially offset by $17 million for investment writedown and facility exit related costs. Also, in the prior year the Company recognized $30 million of gains on interest rate swaps. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) 2011 Compared to 2010 As an agricultural commodity based business, the Company is subject to a variety of market factors which affect the Companys operating results. In 2011, prices for certain agricultural commodities were higher in response to growing global demand and tighter crop supplies. The projections of lower 2011 carryover stocks for certain key commodities, coupled with regional crop supply dislocations for certain commodities, also led to high commodity price volatility. Global demand for agricultural commodities grew in 2011, resulting in increased sales volumes for most of the Companys products. The large 2010 North American harvest resulted in global merchandising, handling, and processing opportunities. Protein meal markets for commercial livestock producers in the U.S., particularly poultry producers, faced challenging conditions. Biodiesel markets in Europe and South America, together with the 2011 extension of the U.S. biodiesel blenders credit, helped support global demand for refined and crude vegetable oils. Sweeteners and starches demand remained strong in 2011 due primarily to U.S. exports of sweeteners and improved demand for industrial starches. Ethanol sales volumes, including increased volumes as the Companys new dry mills ramped up, were supported by favorable gasoline blending economics in the U.S. and good export demand. Net earnings increased $106 million to $2.0 billion due principally to a $794 million increase in segment operating profit partially offset by a negative impact from changing LIFO inventory valuations and higher income taxes. In 2011, the Company successfully managed through significant increases in market prices for most of its agricultural commodity raw materials, resulting in increased segment operating profit. Earnings before income taxes includes charges of $368 million from the effect of increasing agricultural commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuation reserves, compared to credits of $42 million in the prior year caused by decreasing agricultural commodity prices. Income taxes increased $331 million due to a higher effective income tax rate and higher earnings before income taxes. The effective income tax rate of 33.1% for 2011 was the result of changes in the geographic mix of earnings and unfavorable specific tax items. The fully diluted earnings per share calculation for 2011 was impacted by the completion of the Companys debt remarketing related to the $1.75 billion Equity Units. While the approximately 44 million new common shares related to the $1.75 billion Equity Units were not issued until June 1, 2011, the if converted method of accounting for diluted earnings per share required diluted EPS to be calculated as if the Company issued the shares on January 1, 2011, and this assumption resulted in a dilutive impact of $0.04 on earnings per share (See Note 11 in the accompanying consolidated financial statements). Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Analysis of Statements of Earnings Net sales and other operating income by segment are as follows: 2011 2010 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing and Origination $ 16,518 $ 14,411 $ 2,107 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel, and Other 9,476 7,133 2,343 Cocoa and Other 3,652 2,678 974 Asia 262 190 72 Total Oilseeds Processing 29,908 24,412 5,496 Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 3,766 3,264 502 Bioproducts 6,142 4,610 1,532 Total Corn Processing 9,908 7,874 2,034 Agricultural Services Merchandising and Handling 36,852 25,751 11,101 Transportation 222 167 55 Milling and Other 3,676 3,383 293 Total Agricultural Services 40,750 29,301 11,449 Other Financial 110 95 15 Total Other 110 95 15 Total $ 80,676 $ 61,682 $ 18,994 Net sales and other operating income increased $19.0 billion, or 31%, to $80.7 billion. Net sales and other operating income increased $14.2 billion due to higher average selling prices, primarily related to higher underlying commodity costs, and increased $4.8 billion due to increased sales volumes, including sales volumes from acquisitions. Agricultural Services sales increased 39% to $40.8 billion due to higher average selling prices of agricultural commodities and higher global sales volumes. Oilseeds Processing sales increased 23% to $29.9 billion primarily due to higher average selling prices for vegetable oils, soybeans, biodiesel, and protein meal. Corn Processing sales increased 26% to $9.9 billion due to higher average selling prices and increased sales volumes of ethanol and other corn products, in part due to the Companys two new ethanol dry mills coming on line. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Cost of products sold increased 32% to $76.4 billion due to higher costs of agricultural commodities, negative impacts resulting from changes in LIFO inventory valuations, and higher manufacturing costs. Cost of products sold includes charges of $368 million from the effect of increasing agricultural commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuation reserves, compared to credits of $42 million in the prior year caused by decreasing agricultural commodity prices. Manufacturing expenses increased $410 million due primarily to higher processed volumes, including the volumes of the Companys new greenfield operations coming on line, and higher average unit costs for certain chemicals and fuels used in the Companys processing and transportation operations. During the second quarter of fiscal 2011, the Company updated its estimates for service lives of certain of its machinery and equipment assets. This change in estimate resulted in a $133 million decrease in depreciation expense compared to the amount of depreciation expense the Company would have recorded using the previously estimated service lives. Manufacturing expenses included $94 million in fiscal 2011 related to the start up of new plants compared to $110 million in the prior year. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased 15% to $1.6 billion. This increase was due to higher employee related costs and higher administrative expenses. Higher employee related costs principally reflect the increase in number of employees during the year and included higher salaries and wages, higher accruals for performance based compensation and higher benefit expenses. Equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates declined 3% to $542 million. The decline in earnings from the Companys equity investee, Wilmar, was partially offset by higher earnings of the Companys equity investee, Gruma, in part due to a gain on Grumas disposition of certain assets. Interest income increased 8% to $136 million principally resulting from higher interest earned on advances to affiliates. Interest expense increased 14% to $482 million. Interest costs capitalized as a component of major construction projects in progress was $7 million compared to $75 million in the prior year. Interest incurred on long term debt declined $24 million as a result of debt retirements while interest incurred on short term debt increased $15 million due to higher average borrowings driven by higher working capital requirements. Other (income) expense net increased $255 million primarily due to the $71 million gain resulting from the revaluation of the Companys previously held equity interest in Golden Peanut upon acquisition of the remaining 50% interest, gains on interest rate swaps of $30 million compared to a loss of $59 million in the prior year, and a decrease in charges related to early extinguishment of debt from $75 million in the prior year to $15 million in the current year. Income taxes increased $331 million to $997 million due to a higher effective income tax rate and higher pretax earnings. The Companys effective income tax rate increased to 33.1% during 2011 compared to 25.8% in fiscal 2010. The increase in the 2011 rate was primarily due to a geographic mix of earnings that shifted more to the U.S., a higher U.S. effective income tax rate, income tax expense associated with foreign currency re measurement of non monetary assets in Brazil, and adjustments to deferred income tax balances. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Operating profit by segment is as follows: 2011 2010 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing and Origination $ 925 $ 834 $ 91 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel, and Other 342 300 42 Cocoa and Other 240 126 114 Asia 183 291 (108 ) Total Oilseeds Processing 1,690 1,551 139 Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 330 538 (208 ) Bioproducts 749 200 549 Total Corn Processing 1,079 738 341 Agricultural Services Merchandising and Handling 807 562 245 Transportation 117 96 21 Milling and Other 399 344 55 Total Agricultural Services 1,323 1,002 321 Other Financial 39 46 (7 ) Total Other 39 46 (7 ) Total Segment Operating Profit 4,131 3,337 794 Corporate (see below) (1,116 ) (752 ) (364 ) Earnings Before Income Taxes $ 3,015 $ 2,585 $ 430 Corporate results are as follows: 2011 2010 Change (In millions) LIFO credit $ (368 ) $ 42 $ (410 ) Interest expense net (445 ) (381 ) (64 ) Unallocated corporate costs (326 ) (266 ) (60 ) Charges on early extinguishment of debt (8 ) (75 ) 67 Gains (losses) on interest rate swaps 30 (59 ) 89 Other 1 (13 ) 14 Total Corporate $ (1,116 ) $ (752 ) $ (364 ) Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Oilseeds Processing operating profit increased 9% to $1.7 billion. Crushing and Origination results increased $91 million to $925 million. Improved North American crushing results, particularly for cotton seed and canola, were partially offset by lower crushing margins in South America and Europe. Margins globally were enhanced by good positioning and by improved origination results. In South America, fertilizer results improved due to higher margins and volumes. Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel and Other results increased $42 million to $342 million due principally to higher packaged oils margins and improved North American and European biodiesel results. Cocoa and Other results increased $114 million to $240 million primarily due to the $71 million gain on the revaluation of the Companys equity interest in Golden Peanut and higher peanut profits as a result of the December 31, 2010 acquisition of the remaining 50% interest of Golden Peanut. Asia results decreased $108 million due principally to decreased earnings from the Companys equity investee, Wilmar. Corn Processing operating profit increased 46% to $1.1 billion, which includes favorable impacts from ownership positions, which were allocated to sweeteners and starches and bioproducts based on total grind. Sweeteners and Starches operating profit decreased $208 million to $330 million due to higher net corn costs partially offset by higher sales volumes. Sales volumes increased due to U.S. export shipments of sweeteners and improved U.S. demand for industrial starches. Bioproducts operating profit improved $549 million primarily due to higher ethanol sales volumes and higher average selling prices leading to increased ethanol and lysine margins. Bioproducts margins were also enhanced by favorable corn ownership positions. Bioproducts results included startup costs related to the Companys new plants of $94 million in 2011 compared to $107 million in the prior year. Agricultural Services operating profit increased 32% to $1.3 billion. Merchandising and Handling results increased due to higher corn and wheat sales volumes and higher margins. A large 2010 U.S. harvest combined with strong international demand resulted in higher U.S. export shipments. Merchandising and Handling results in 2011 included an insurance recovery of $67 million related to property damage and business interruption resulting from an October 2008 explosion at the Companys Destrehan, LA, export facility. International merchandising results were weaker in part due to positions impacted by unexpected shifts in crop supply caused by weather conditions and government actions in the Black Sea region. Transportation results increased $21 million to $117 million primarily due to higher barge freight rates and higher barge utilization levels, in part due to higher U.S. export volumes. Milling and Other results improved due principally to increased equity earnings from the Companys equity investee, Gruma which include a $78 million gain related to Grumas disposal of certain assets. Other financial operating profit decreased 15% to $39 million primarily due to higher captive insurance loss provisions principally related to a $67 million loss related to the Companys Destrehan, LA, export facility insurance claim. Corporate results decreased $364 million primarily due to the negative impact from changing LIFO inventory valuations and higher interest expense net. The effects of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory reserves resulted in charges of $368 million compared to credits of $42 million for the prior year. Corporate interest expense increased $64 million mostly due to lower capitalization of interest costs for construction projects in progress. Partially offsetting the higher LIFO and interest costs were $30 million of gains on interest rate swaps compared to prior year losses on interest rate swaps of $59 million. In addition, 2010 included charges of $75 million on early debt extinguishment compared to $8 million of similar charges in 2011. Liquidity and Capital Resources A Company objective is to have sufficient liquidity, balance sheet strength, and financial flexibility to fund the operating and capital requirements of a capital intensive agricultural commodity based business. The primary source of funds to finance the Companys operations and capital expenditures is cash generated by operations and lines of credit, including a commercial paper borrowing facility. In addition, the Company believes it has access to funds from public and private equity and debt capital markets in both U.S. and international markets. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Cash provided by operating activities was $2.9 billion for the year compared to cash used in operating activities of $2.3 billion last year. Working capital decreased $0.3 billion since the beginning of fiscal 2012 due principally to the $1.0 billion account receivable securitization program discussed below. In fiscal 2011 working capital increased $5.2 billion due principally to higher agricultural commodity prices. Cash used in investing activities was $1.1 billion for the year compared to a $1.7 billion use last year. Capital expenditures were $1.5 billion for the year compared to $1.2 billion last year. The Company spent approximately $0.2 billion on acquisitions in fiscal 2012 and 2011. Related to the sale of the majority interest in Hickory Point Bank, the Company reduced its holdings of marketable securities generating cash of $0.3 billion and divested cash of $0.1 billion as a result of the deconsolidation. In fiscal 2011, net purchases of marketable securities used $0.3 billion of cash. Cash used in financing activities was $1.1 billion for the year compared to cash provided by financing activities of $3.6 billion last year. In fiscal 2012, the Company returned nearly $1.0 billion to shareholders in the form of dividends and share repurchases, including the acquisition of 18.4 million of its common shares for $0.5 billion. In fiscal 2011 net borrowings increased primarily to fund higher working capital. Short term borrowings increased due principally to higher commercial paper borrowings, and long term borrowings increased primarily as a result of the issuance of $1.5 billion of 18 month floating rate notes in February 2011. In addition the Company issued 44 million shares of common stock and received $1.75 billion in fiscal 2011 under the forward stock purchase component of the Companys Equity Units (see Note 10 in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data). At June 30, 2012, the Company had $1.5 billion of cash, cash equivalents, and short term marketable securities and a current ratio, defined as current assets divided by current liabilities, of 1.8 to 1. Included in working capital is $7.8 billion of readily marketable commodity inventories. At June 30, 2012, the Companys capital resources included net worth of $18.2 billion and lines of credit totaling $6.5 billion, of which $4.4 billion was unused. The Companys ratio of long term debt to total capital (the sum of the Companys long term debt and shareholders equity) was 26% at June 30, 2012 and 30% at June 30, 2011. This ratio is a measure of the Companys long term indebtedness and is an indicator of financial flexibility. Of the Companys total lines of credit, $4.3 billion support a commercial paper borrowing facility, against which there were $1.3 billion of commercial paper outstanding at June 30, 2012. In August 2012, the Company added a $2.0 billion credit facility which will support commercial paper borrowings. On March 27, 2012, the Company entered into an amendment of its accounts receivable securitization program (as amended, the Program) with certain commercial paper conduit purchasers and committed purchasers (collectively, the Purchasers). The Program provides the Company with up to $1.0 billion in funding against accounts receivable transferred into the Program and expands the Companys access to liquidity through efficient use of its balance sheet assets. Under the Program, certain U.S. originated trade accounts receivable are sold to a wholly owned bankruptcy remote entity, ADM Receivables, LLC (ADM Receivables). ADM Receivables in turn transfers such purchased accounts receivable in their entirety to the Purchasers pursuant to a receivables purchase agreement. In exchange for the transfer of the accounts receivable, ADM Receivables receives a cash payment of up to $1.0 billion and an additional amount upon the collection of the accounts receivable (deferred consideration). ADM Receivables uses the cash proceeds from the transfer of receivables to the Purchasers and other consideration to finance the purchase of receivables from the Company and the ADM subsidiaries originating the receivables. The Company acts as master servicer, responsible for servicing and collecting the accounts receivable under the Program. The Program terminates on June 28, 2013 (see Note 20 for more information and disclosures on the Program). As of June 30, 2012, the fair value of trade receivables transferred to the Purchasers under the Program and derecognized from the Companys consolidated balance sheet was $1.6 billion. In exchange for the transfer, the Company received cash of $1.0 billion and recorded a receivable for deferred consideration included in other current assets. The Company has outstanding $1.4 billion principal amount of floating rate notes due on August 13, 2012. Interest on the notes accrues at a floating rate three month LIBOR reset quarterly plus 0.16% and is paid quarterly. As of June 30, 2012, the interest rate on the notes was 0.63%. In August 2012, the Company paid these notes with funds available from short term borrowings. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) The Company has outstanding $1.15 billion principal amount of convertible senior notes. As of June 30, 2012, none of the conditions permitting conversion of these notes had been satisfied. The Company has purchased call options and warrants intended to reduce the potential shareholder dilution upon future conversion of the notes. As of June 30, 2012, the market price of the Companys common stock was not greater than the exercise price of the purchased call options or warrants related to the convertible senior notes. The Company is currently experiencing generally higher prices for agricultural commodities as a result of tightening crop supplies, mostly due to weather impacts on current year U.S. corn and soybean crop production. Higher prices of commodities have historically correlated with increases in the Companys working capital requirements. The Company depends on access to credit markets, which can be impacted by its credit rating and factors outside of the Companys control, such as the European debt situation, to fund its working capital needs and capital expenditures. The Company expects capital expenditures to range from $0.5 billion to $0.6 billion for the upcoming 6 month period ending December 31, 2012. On November 5, 2009, the Companys Board of Directors approved a stock repurchase program authorizing the Company to repurchase up to 100,000,000 shares of the Companys common stock during the period commencing January 1, 2010 and ending December 31, 2014. The Company has acquired approximately 31.6 million shares under this program, resulting in remaining approval to acquire 68.4 million shares. The Companys credit facilities and certain debentures require the Company to comply with specified financial and non financial covenants including maintenance of minimum tangible net worth as well as limitations related to incurring liens, secured debt, and certain other financing arrangements. The Company is in compliance with these covenants as of June 30, 2012. Contractual Obligations In the normal course of business, the Company enters into contracts and commitments which obligate the Company to make payments in the future. The following table sets forth the Companys significant future obligations by time period. Purchases include commodity based contracts entered into in the normal course of business, which are further described in Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, energy related purchase contracts entered into in the normal course of business, and other purchase obligations related to the Companys normal business activities. The following table does not include unrecognized income tax benefits of $80 million as of June 30, 2012 as the Company is unable to reasonably estimate the timing of settlement. Where applicable, information included in the Companys consolidated financial statements and notes is cross referenced in this table. Payments Due by Period Contractual Item 8 Note Less than 1 3 3 5 More than Obligations Reference Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years (In millions) Purchases Inventories $ 17,724 $ 17,307 $ 211 $ 130 $ 76 Energy 866 390 233 87 156 Other 242 145 86 10 1 Total purchases 18,832 17,842 530 227 233 Short term debt 2,108 2,108 Long term debt Note 10 8,212 1,677 1,114 320 5,101 Estimated interest payments 6,688 374 650 636 5,028 Operating leases Note 16 1,135 244 365 263 263 Estimated pension and other postretirement plan contributions (1) Note 17 188 64 23 25 76 Total $ 37,163 $ 22,309 $ 2,682 $ 1,471 $ 10,701 (1) Includes pension contributions of $53 million for fiscal 2013. The Company is unable to estimate the amount of pension contributions beyond fiscal year 2013. For more information concerning the Companys pension and other postretirement plans, see Note 17 in Item 8. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) At June 30, 2012, the Company estimates it will spend approximately $2.1 billion through calendar year 2015 to complete currently approved capital projects which are not included in the table above. The Company also has outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds of $644 million at June 30, 2012. In addition, the Company has entered into agreements, primarily debt guarantee agreements related to equity method investees, which could obligate the Company to make future payments. The Companys liability under these agreements arises only if the primary entity fails to perform its contractual obligation. The Company has collateral for a portion of these contingent obligations. At June 30, 2012, these contingent obligations totaled approximately $30 million. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements On March 27, 2012, the Company entered into an amendment of its accounts receivable securitization program (as amended, the Program) with certain commercial paper conduit purchasers and committed purchasers (collectively, the Purchasers). Under the Program, certain U.S. originated trade accounts receivable are sold to a wholly owned bankruptcy remote entity, ADM Receivables, LLC (ADM Receivables). ADM Receivables in turn transfers such purchased accounts receivable in their entirety to the Purchasers pursuant to a receivables purchase agreement. In exchange for the transfer of the accounts receivable, ADM Receivables receives a cash payment of up to $1.0 billion and an additional amount upon the collection of the accounts receivable (deferred consideration). ADM Receivables uses the cash proceeds from the transfer of receivables to the Purchasers and other consideration to finance the purchase of receivables from the Company and the ADM subsidiaries originating the receivables. The Company accounts for these transfers as sales. The Company has no retained interests in the transferred receivables, other than collection and administrative responsibilities and its right to the deferred consideration. At June 30, 2012, the Company did not record a servicing asset or liability related to its retained responsibility, based on its assessment of the servicing fee, market values for similar transactions and its cost of servicing the receivables sold. The Program terminates on June 28, 2013. As of June 30, 2012, the fair value of trade receivables transferred to the Purchasers under the Program and derecognized from the Companys consolidated balance sheet was $1.6 billion. In exchange for the transfer, the Company received cash of $1.0 billion and recorded a receivable for deferred consideration included in other current assets. Cash collections from customers on receivables sold were $8.9 billion for the four months ended June 30, 2012. Of this amount, $8.9 billion pertains to cash collections on the deferred consideration. Deferred consideration is paid to the Company in cash on behalf of the Purchasers as receivables are collected; however, as this is a revolving facility, cash collected from the Companys customers is reinvested by the Purchasers daily in new receivable purchases under the Program. The Companys risk of loss following the transfer of accounts receivable under the Program is limited to the deferred consideration outstanding, which is classified as other current assets and was $0.6 billion at June 30, 2012. The Company carries the deferred consideration at fair value determined by calculating the expected amount of cash to be received and is principally based on observable inputs (a Level 2 measurement under ASC 820) consisting mainly of the face amount of the receivables adjusted for anticipated credit losses and discounted at the appropriate market rate. Payment of deferred consideration is not subject to significant risks other than delinquencies and credit losses on accounts receivable transferred under the program which have historically been insignificant. Transfers of receivables under the Program during the year ended June 30, 2012 resulted in an expense for the loss on sale of $4 million which is classified as selling, general, and administrative expenses in the consolidated statements of earnings. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Critical Accounting Policies The process of preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the carrying values of the Companys assets and liabilities as well as the recognition of revenues and expenses. These estimates and judgments are based on the Companys historical experience and managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Certain of the Companys accounting policies are considered critical, as these policies are important to the depiction of the Companys financial statements and require significant or complex judgment by management. Management has discussed with the Companys Audit Committee the development, selection, disclosure, and application of these critical accounting policies. Following are the accounting policies management considers critical to the Companys financial statements. Fair Value Measurements Inventories and Derivatives Certain of the Companys assets and liabilities as of June 30, 2012 are valued at estimated fair values, including $6.8 billion of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, $3.1 billion of derivative assets, $3.0 billion of derivative liabilities, and $0.3 billion of inventory related payables. Derivative assets and liabilities include forward fixed price purchase and sale contracts for agricultural commodities, forward foreign exchange contracts, and over the counter instruments such as options contracts. The merchandisable agricultural commodities are freely traded, have quoted market prices, and may be sold without significant additional processing. Management estimates fair value for its commodity related assets and liabilities based on exchange quoted prices, adjusted for differences in local markets. The Companys fair value measurements are mainly based on observable market quotations without significant adjustments and are therefore reported as Level 1 or Level 2 within the fair value hierarchy. Level 3 fair value measurements represent fair value estimates where unobservable price components represent 10% or more of the total fair value price. For more information concerning amounts reported as Level 3, see Note 3 in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Changes in the market values of these inventories and contracts are recognized in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. If management used different methods or factors to estimate market value, amounts reported as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. Additionally, if market conditions change subsequent to year end, amounts reported in future periods as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. Derivatives Designated Hedging Activities The Company, from time to time, uses derivative contracts designated as cash flow hedges to fix the purchase price of anticipated volumes of commodities to be purchased and processed in a future month, to fix the purchase price of the Companys anticipated natural gas requirements for certain production facilities, and to fix the sales price of anticipated volumes of ethanol. These designated hedging programs principally relate to the Companys Corn Processing operating segment. The change in the market value of such derivative contracts has historically been, and is expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold and net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. If it is determined that the derivative instruments used are no longer effective at offsetting changes in the price of the hedged item, then the changes in the market value of these exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts would be recorded immediately in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. See Note 4 in Item 8 for additional information. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Investments in Affiliates The Company applies the equity method of accounting for investments over which the Company has the ability to exercise significant influence, including its 16.4% investment in Wilmar. These investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings and are adjusted, where appropriate, for amortizable basis differences between the investment balance and the underlying net assets of the investee. Generally, the minimum ownership threshold for asserting significant influence is 20% ownership of the investee. However, the Company considers all relevant factors in determining its ability to assert significant influence including but not limited to, ownership percentage, board membership, customer and vendor relationships, and other arrangements. If management used a different accounting method for these investments, then the amount of earnings from affiliates the Company recognizes may differ. Income Taxes The Company frequently faces challenges from U.S. and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company records reserves for estimates of potential additional tax owed by the Company. As an example, a subsidiary of the Company received tax assessments in the amount of $570 million consisting of tax, penalty, and interest (adjusted for interest and variation in currency exchange rates) from the Brazilian Federal Revenue Service challenging the deductibility of commodity hedging losses incurred by the Company for tax years 2004, 2006 and 2007. The Company evaluated its tax position regarding these hedging transactions and concluded, based in part upon advice from Brazilian legal counsel, that it was appropriate to recognize the tax benefits of these deductions (see Note 15 in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for additional information). Deferred tax assets represent items to be used as tax deductions or credits in future tax returns, and the related tax benefit has already been recognized in the Companys income statement. The realization of the Companys deferred tax assets is dependent upon future taxable income in specific tax jurisdictions, the timing and amount of which are uncertain. The Company evaluates all available positive and negative evidence including estimated future reversals of existing temporary differences, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies, and recent financial results. Valuation allowances related to these deferred tax assets have been established to the extent the realization of the tax benefit is not likely. To the extent the Company were to favorably resolve matters for which accruals have been established or be required to pay amounts in excess of the aforementioned reserves, the Companys effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be impacted. Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and the Companys share of the undistributed earnings of affiliated corporate joint venture companies accounted for on the equity method amounting to approximately $7.2 billion at June 30, 2012, are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Property, Plant, and Equipment and Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand, changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned factors may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and cash flows of the Companys assets in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its facilities. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment, technology, and companies related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. Assets are written down after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these assets, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. During 2012, 2011, and 2010, impairment charges were $367 million, $2 million, and $9 million, respectively (see Note 19 for additional information on charges taken in 2012). Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets Goodwill and intangible assets deemed to have indefinite lives are not amortized but are subject to annual impairment tests. The Company evaluates goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year or whenever there are indicators that the carrying value of the assets may not be fully recoverable. Definite lived intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives and are reviewed for impairment whenever there are indicators that the carrying value of the assets may not be fully recoverable. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its impairment tests, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Employee Benefit Plans The Company provides substantially all U.S. employees and employees at certain international subsidiaries with pension benefits. Eligible U.S. employees with five or more years of service prior to January 1, 2009 participate in a defined benefit pension plan. Eligible U.S. employees hired on or after January 1, 2009 (and eligible salaried employees with less than five years of service prior to January 1, 2009) participate in a cash balance pension formula. The Company provides eligible U.S. employees who retire under qualifying conditions with access to postretirement health care, at full cost to the retiree (certain employees are grandfathered into subsidized coverage). In order to measure the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans, management makes several estimates and assumptions, including interest rates used to discount certain liabilities, rates of return on assets set aside to fund these plans, rates of compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and anticipated future health care costs. These estimates and assumptions are based on the Companys historical experience combined with managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Management also uses third party actuaries to assist in measuring the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans. If management used different estimates and assumptions regarding these plans, the funded status of the plans could vary significantly, and the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. See Note 17 in Item 8 for additional information. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in: commodity market prices as they relate to the Companys net commodity position, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and prices of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to factors such as changes in weather conditions, crop disease, plantings, government programs and policies, competition, changes in global demand, changes in customer preferences and standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. The Company manages its exposure to adverse price movements of agricultural commodities used for, and produced in, its business operations, by entering into derivative and non derivative contracts which reduce the Companys overall short or long commodity position. Additionally, the Company uses exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the correlation between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contract defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company, from time to time, enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed designated hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold or net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. The Companys commodity position consists of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, related purchase and sales contracts, energy and freight contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts including contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements, net of sales. The fair value of the Companys commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing all of the commodity positions at quoted market prices for the period, where available, or utilizing a close proxy. The Company has established metrics to monitor the amount of market risk exposure, which consist of volumetric limits, and value at risk (VaR) limits. VaR measures the potential loss, at a 95% confidence level, that could be incurred over a one year period. Volumetric limits are monitored daily and VaR calculations and sensitivity analysis are monitored weekly. In addition to measuring the hypothetical loss resulting from an adverse two standard deviation move in market prices (assuming no correlations) over a one year period using VaR, sensitivity analysis is performed measuring the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in market prices. The highest, lowest, and average weekly position for each of the last two years together with the market risk from a hypothetical 10% adverse price change is as follows: 2012 2011 Long/(Short) Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest position $ 1,477 $ 148 $ 2,388 $ 239 Lowest position (383 ) (38 ) 368 37 Average position 546 55 1,644 164 The decline in fair value of the average position for 2012 compared to 2011 was principally the result of the decline in average quantities underlying the weekly commodity position. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) Currencies The Company has consolidated subsidiaries in over 75 countries. For the majority of the Companys subsidiaries located outside the United States, the local currency is the functional currency. To reduce the risks associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, the Company enters into currency exchange contracts to minimize its foreign currency position related to transactions denominated primarily in Euro, British pound, Canadian dollar, and Brazilian real currencies. These currencies represent the major functional or local currencies in which recurring business transactions occur. The Company does not use currency exchange contracts as hedges against amounts permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The currency exchange contracts used are forward contracts, swaps with banks, exchange traded futures contracts, and over the counter options. The changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $7.2 billion at June 30, 2012, and $8.2 billion at June 30, 2011. This decrease is due to the depreciation of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar partially offset by an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The potential loss in fair value, which would principally be recognized in Other Comprehensive Income, resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $722 million and $823 million for 2012 and 2011, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 50 basis points decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2012 2011 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 8,057 $ 9,108 Excess of fair value over carrying value 1,522 842 Market risk 422 333 The decrease in fair value of long term debt in 2012 resulted principally from the reclassification of $1.5 billion in floating rate notes to short term debt partially offset by decreased interest rates. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Oilseeds Processing operating profit decreased $0.4 billion to $1.3 billion. Crushing and Origination operating profit decreased $284 million to $641 million primarily due to weaker results in European softseeds, lower results in North American softseeds, and lower North American positioning results. Partially offsetting these lower results, were higher grain origination results in South America driven by higher volumes and favorable positioning. Poor European softseeds results were driven by a small prior year rapeseed crop, positioning losses, and weaker demand for protein meal and oils. North American softseed results declined primarily as a result of lower margins generated from a tight cottonseed supply. Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel, and Other results declined $47 million to $295 million due primarily to declines in biodiesel margins in South America and Europe and lower margins for specialty fats and oils in Europe. These declines were partially offset by improved North American protein specialties and natural health and nutrition results due to higher margins and volumes. Cocoa and Other results declined $57 million to $183 million. Current year results in Cocoa and Other were reduced by $100 million for net unrealized mark to market losses related to certain forward purchase and sales commitments accounted for as derivatives. Last year included $9 million of net unrealized mark to market losses. Excluding these timing effects, cocoa results improved in the current year driven by improved press margins caused by strong cocoa powder demand. The prior year included the $71 million Golden Peanut Gain which was partially offset this year by higher earnings in the Companys peanut business in part due to the first full year of consolidated results for Golden Peanut being reported by the Company in fiscal 2012. Asia results remained steady at $183 million, principally reflecting the Companys share of its results from equity investee, Wilmar. Corn Processing operating results decreased $818 million to $261 million due principally to poor ethanol margins and $349 million in asset impairment charges and exit costs. Excluding the asset impairment and exit costs related to the Companys bioplastics business and Walhalla, ND, ethanol dry grind facility, Corn Processing operating profit of $610 million in the current year represents a decline of $469 million compared to the prior year. Processed volumes were up 5 percent while net corn costs increased compared to last year. Sweeteners and Starches operating profit increased $5 million to $335 million, as higher average selling prices more than offset higher net corn costs. Bioproducts profit decreased $823 million to a loss of $74 million, including the $349 million asset impairment and exit charges. Lower ethanol margins were caused by excess supply as previously offline production restarted while industry demand declined, in part due to slowing export demand. Prior year bioproducts results were enhanced by favorable corn ownership positions, which lowered net corn costs in that period. Bioproducts results in the prior year were negatively impacted by startup costs of $94 million related to the Companys new dry grind ethanol, bioplastic, and glycol plants. Agricultural Services operating profits decreased $376 million to $947 million. Merchandising and Handling earnings decreased primarily due to lower results from U.S. operations. Lower sales volumes were principally the result of the relatively higher cost of U.S. grains and oilseeds in the global market due to lower stocks caused by a smaller U.S. harvest in 2011. This relatively weaker position led to reduced U.S. grain exports. In the prior year, Merchandising and Handling results were positively impacted by higher quantities of U.S. grain exports by the Company. In addition, fiscal 2012 included $40 million of increased loss provisions mainly due to an unfavorable arbitration award. Earnings from Transportation were steady. Last years operating results in Milling and Other operations included a $78 million gain related to Grumas disposal of certain assets. Other financial operating profit decreased $24 million to $15 million mainly due to higher loss provisions at the Companys captive insurance subsidiary related to property and crop risk reserves. Corporate expenses declined $356 million to $760 million this year. The effects of a liquidation of LIFO inventory layers partially offset by increasing commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuations resulted in a credit of $10 million in the current year compared to a charge of $368 million in the prior year primarily due to higher prices. Corporate interest expense decreased $22 million primarily due to lower interest expense on lower long term debt balances. Unallocated corporate costs include $71 million of costs related to the global workforce reduction program. Excluding these costs, unallocated corporate costs declined $37 million due primarily to lower administrative costs. Corporate other income increased due to higher investment income partially offset by $17 million for investment writedown and facility exit related costs. Also, in the prior year the Company recognized $30 million of gains on interest rate swaps. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) 2011 Compared to 2010 As an agricultural commodity based business, the Company is subject to a variety of market factors which affect the Companys operating results. In 2011, prices for certain agricultural commodities were higher in response to growing global demand and tighter crop supplies. The projections of lower 2011 carryover stocks for certain key commodities, coupled with regional crop supply dislocations for certain commodities, also led to high commodity price volatility. Global demand for agricultural commodities grew in 2011, resulting in increased sales volumes for most of the Companys products. The large 2010 North American harvest resulted in global merchandising, handling, and processing opportunities. Protein meal markets for commercial livestock producers in the U.S., particularly poultry producers, faced challenging conditions. Biodiesel markets in Europe and South America, together with the 2011 extension of the U.S. biodiesel blenders credit, helped support global demand for refined and crude vegetable oils. Sweeteners and starches demand remained strong in 2011 due primarily to U.S. exports of sweeteners and improved demand for industrial starches. Ethanol sales volumes, including increased volumes as the Companys new dry mills ramped up, were supported by favorable gasoline blending economics in the U.S. and good export demand. Net earnings increased $106 million to $2.0 billion due principally to a $794 million increase in segment operating profit partially offset by a negative impact from changing LIFO inventory valuations and higher income taxes. In 2011, the Company successfully managed through significant increases in market prices for most of its agricultural commodity raw materials, resulting in increased segment operating profit. Earnings before income taxes includes charges of $368 million from the effect of increasing agricultural commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuation reserves, compared to credits of $42 million in the prior year caused by decreasing agricultural commodity prices. Income taxes increased $331 million due to a higher effective income tax rate and higher earnings before income taxes. The effective income tax rate of 33.1% for 2011 was the result of changes in the geographic mix of earnings and unfavorable specific tax items. The fully diluted earnings per share calculation for 2011 was impacted by the completion of the Companys debt remarketing related to the $1.75 billion Equity Units. While the approximately 44 million new common shares related to the $1.75 billion Equity Units were not issued until June 1, 2011, the if converted method of accounting for diluted earnings per share required diluted EPS to be calculated as if the Company issued the shares on January 1, 2011, and this assumption resulted in a dilutive impact of $0.04 on earnings per share (See Note 11 in the accompanying consolidated financial statements). Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Analysis of Statements of Earnings Net sales and other operating income by segment are as follows: 2011 2010 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing and Origination $ 16,518 $ 14,411 $ 2,107 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel, and Other 9,476 7,133 2,343 Cocoa and Other 3,652 2,678 974 Asia 262 190 72 Total Oilseeds Processing 29,908 24,412 5,496 Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 3,766 3,264 502 Bioproducts 6,142 4,610 1,532 Total Corn Processing 9,908 7,874 2,034 Agricultural Services Merchandising and Handling 36,852 25,751 11,101 Transportation 222 167 55 Milling and Other 3,676 3,383 293 Total Agricultural Services 40,750 29,301 11,449 Other Financial 110 95 15 Total Other 110 95 15 Total $ 80,676 $ 61,682 $ 18,994 Net sales and other operating income increased $19.0 billion, or 31%, to $80.7 billion. Net sales and other operating income increased $14.2 billion due to higher average selling prices, primarily related to higher underlying commodity costs, and increased $4.8 billion due to increased sales volumes, including sales volumes from acquisitions. Agricultural Services sales increased 39% to $40.8 billion due to higher average selling prices of agricultural commodities and higher global sales volumes. Oilseeds Processing sales increased 23% to $29.9 billion primarily due to higher average selling prices for vegetable oils, soybeans, biodiesel, and protein meal. Corn Processing sales increased 26% to $9.9 billion due to higher average selling prices and increased sales volumes of ethanol and other corn products, in part due to the Companys two new ethanol dry mills coming on line. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Cost of products sold increased 32% to $76.4 billion due to higher costs of agricultural commodities, negative impacts resulting from changes in LIFO inventory valuations, and higher manufacturing costs. Cost of products sold includes charges of $368 million from the effect of increasing agricultural commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuation reserves, compared to credits of $42 million in the prior year caused by decreasing agricultural commodity prices. Manufacturing expenses increased $410 million due primarily to higher processed volumes, including the volumes of the Companys new greenfield operations coming on line, and higher average unit costs for certain chemicals and fuels used in the Companys processing and transportation operations. During the second quarter of fiscal 2011, the Company updated its estimates for service lives of certain of its machinery and equipment assets. This change in estimate resulted in a $133 million decrease in depreciation expense compared to the amount of depreciation expense the Company would have recorded using the previously estimated service lives. Manufacturing expenses included $94 million in fiscal 2011 related to the start up of new plants compared to $110 million in the prior year. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased 15% to $1.6 billion. This increase was due to higher employee related costs and higher administrative expenses. Higher employee related costs principally reflect the increase in number of employees during the year and included higher salaries and wages, higher accruals for performance based compensation and higher benefit expenses. Equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates declined 3% to $542 million. The decline in earnings from the Companys equity investee, Wilmar, was partially offset by higher earnings of the Companys equity investee, Gruma, in part due to a gain on Grumas disposition of certain assets. Interest income increased 8% to $136 million principally resulting from higher interest earned on advances to affiliates. Interest expense increased 14% to $482 million. Interest costs capitalized as a component of major construction projects in progress was $7 million compared to $75 million in the prior year. Interest incurred on long term debt declined $24 million as a result of debt retirements while interest incurred on short term debt increased $15 million due to higher average borrowings driven by higher working capital requirements. Other (income) expense net increased $255 million primarily due to the $71 million gain resulting from the revaluation of the Companys previously held equity interest in Golden Peanut upon acquisition of the remaining 50% interest, gains on interest rate swaps of $30 million compared to a loss of $59 million in the prior year, and a decrease in charges related to early extinguishment of debt from $75 million in the prior year to $15 million in the current year. Income taxes increased $331 million to $997 million due to a higher effective income tax rate and higher pretax earnings. The Companys effective income tax rate increased to 33.1% during 2011 compared to 25.8% in fiscal 2010. The increase in the 2011 rate was primarily due to a geographic mix of earnings that shifted more to the U.S., a higher U.S. effective income tax rate, income tax expense associated with foreign currency re measurement of non monetary assets in Brazil, and adjustments to deferred income tax balances. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Operating profit by segment is as follows: 2011 2010 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing and Origination $ 925 $ 834 $ 91 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel, and Other 342 300 42 Cocoa and Other 240 126 114 Asia 183 291 (108 ) Total Oilseeds Processing 1,690 1,551 139 Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 330 538 (208 ) Bioproducts 749 200 549 Total Corn Processing 1,079 738 341 Agricultural Services Merchandising and Handling 807 562 245 Transportation 117 96 21 Milling and Other 399 344 55 Total Agricultural Services 1,323 1,002 321 Other Financial 39 46 (7 ) Total Other 39 46 (7 ) Total Segment Operating Profit 4,131 3,337 794 Corporate (see below) (1,116 ) (752 ) (364 ) Earnings Before Income Taxes $ 3,015 $ 2,585 $ 430 Corporate results are as follows: 2011 2010 Change (In millions) LIFO credit $ (368 ) $ 42 $ (410 ) Interest expense net (445 ) (381 ) (64 ) Unallocated corporate costs (326 ) (266 ) (60 ) Charges on early extinguishment of debt (8 ) (75 ) 67 Gains (losses) on interest rate swaps 30 (59 ) 89 Other 1 (13 ) 14 Total Corporate $ (1,116 ) $ (752 ) $ (364 ) Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Oilseeds Processing operating profit increased 9% to $1.7 billion. Crushing and Origination results increased $91 million to $925 million. Improved North American crushing results, particularly for cotton seed and canola, were partially offset by lower crushing margins in South America and Europe. Margins globally were enhanced by good positioning and by improved origination results. In South America, fertilizer results improved due to higher margins and volumes. Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel and Other results increased $42 million to $342 million due principally to higher packaged oils margins and improved North American and European biodiesel results. Cocoa and Other results increased $114 million to $240 million primarily due to the $71 million gain on the revaluation of the Companys equity interest in Golden Peanut and higher peanut profits as a result of the December 31, 2010 acquisition of the remaining 50% interest of Golden Peanut. Asia results decreased $108 million due principally to decreased earnings from the Companys equity investee, Wilmar. Corn Processing operating profit increased 46% to $1.1 billion, which includes favorable impacts from ownership positions, which were allocated to sweeteners and starches and bioproducts based on total grind. Sweeteners and Starches operating profit decreased $208 million to $330 million due to higher net corn costs partially offset by higher sales volumes. Sales volumes increased due to U.S. export shipments of sweeteners and improved U.S. demand for industrial starches. Bioproducts operating profit improved $549 million primarily due to higher ethanol sales volumes and higher average selling prices leading to increased ethanol and lysine margins. Bioproducts margins were also enhanced by favorable corn ownership positions. Bioproducts results included startup costs related to the Companys new plants of $94 million in 2011 compared to $107 million in the prior year. Agricultural Services operating profit increased 32% to $1.3 billion. Merchandising and Handling results increased due to higher corn and wheat sales volumes and higher margins. A large 2010 U.S. harvest combined with strong international demand resulted in higher U.S. export shipments. Merchandising and Handling results in 2011 included an insurance recovery of $67 million related to property damage and business interruption resulting from an October 2008 explosion at the Companys Destrehan, LA, export facility. International merchandising results were weaker in part due to positions impacted by unexpected shifts in crop supply caused by weather conditions and government actions in the Black Sea region. Transportation results increased $21 million to $117 million primarily due to higher barge freight rates and higher barge utilization levels, in part due to higher U.S. export volumes. Milling and Other results improved due principally to increased equity earnings from the Companys equity investee, Gruma which include a $78 million gain related to Grumas disposal of certain assets. Other financial operating profit decreased 15% to $39 million primarily due to higher captive insurance loss provisions principally related to a $67 million loss related to the Companys Destrehan, LA, export facility insurance claim. Corporate results decreased $364 million primarily due to the negative impact from changing LIFO inventory valuations and higher interest expense net. The effects of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory reserves resulted in charges of $368 million compared to credits of $42 million for the prior year. Corporate interest expense increased $64 million mostly due to lower capitalization of interest costs for construction projects in progress. Partially offsetting the higher LIFO and interest costs were $30 million of gains on interest rate swaps compared to prior year losses on interest rate swaps of $59 million. In addition, 2010 included charges of $75 million on early debt extinguishment compared to $8 million of similar charges in 2011. Liquidity and Capital Resources A Company objective is to have sufficient liquidity, balance sheet strength, and financial flexibility to fund the operating and capital requirements of a capital intensive agricultural commodity based business. The primary source of funds to finance the Companys operations and capital expenditures is cash generated by operations and lines of credit, including a commercial paper borrowing facility. In addition, the Company believes it has access to funds from public and private equity and debt capital markets in both U.S. and international markets. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Cash provided by operating activities was $2.9 billion for the year compared to cash used in operating activities of $2.3 billion last year. Working capital decreased $0.3 billion since the beginning of fiscal 2012 due principally to the $1.0 billion account receivable securitization program discussed below. In fiscal 2011 working capital increased $5.2 billion due principally to higher agricultural commodity prices. Cash used in investing activities was $1.1 billion for the year compared to a $1.7 billion use last year. Capital expenditures were $1.5 billion for the year compared to $1.2 billion last year. The Company spent approximately $0.2 billion on acquisitions in fiscal 2012 and 2011. Related to the sale of the majority interest in Hickory Point Bank, the Company reduced its holdings of marketable securities generating cash of $0.3 billion and divested cash of $0.1 billion as a result of the deconsolidation. In fiscal 2011, net purchases of marketable securities used $0.3 billion of cash. Cash used in financing activities was $1.1 billion for the year compared to cash provided by financing activities of $3.6 billion last year. In fiscal 2012, the Company returned nearly $1.0 billion to shareholders in the form of dividends and share repurchases, including the acquisition of 18.4 million of its common shares for $0.5 billion. In fiscal 2011 net borrowings increased primarily to fund higher working capital. Short term borrowings increased due principally to higher commercial paper borrowings, and long term borrowings increased primarily as a result of the issuance of $1.5 billion of 18 month floating rate notes in February 2011. In addition the Company issued 44 million shares of common stock and received $1.75 billion in fiscal 2011 under the forward stock purchase component of the Companys Equity Units (see Note 10 in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data). At June 30, 2012, the Company had $1.5 billion of cash, cash equivalents, and short term marketable securities and a current ratio, defined as current assets divided by current liabilities, of 1.8 to 1. Included in working capital is $7.8 billion of readily marketable commodity inventories. At June 30, 2012, the Companys capital resources included net worth of $18.2 billion and lines of credit totaling $6.5 billion, of which $4.4 billion was unused. The Companys ratio of long term debt to total capital (the sum of the Companys long term debt and shareholders equity) was 26% at June 30, 2012 and 30% at June 30, 2011. This ratio is a measure of the Companys long term indebtedness and is an indicator of financial flexibility. Of the Companys total lines of credit, $4.3 billion support a commercial paper borrowing facility, against which there were $1.3 billion of commercial paper outstanding at June 30, 2012. In August 2012, the Company added a $2.0 billion credit facility which will support commercial paper borrowings. On March 27, 2012, the Company entered into an amendment of its accounts receivable securitization program (as amended, the Program) with certain commercial paper conduit purchasers and committed purchasers (collectively, the Purchasers). The Program provides the Company with up to $1.0 billion in funding against accounts receivable transferred into the Program and expands the Companys access to liquidity through efficient use of its balance sheet assets. Under the Program, certain U.S. originated trade accounts receivable are sold to a wholly owned bankruptcy remote entity, ADM Receivables, LLC (ADM Receivables). ADM Receivables in turn transfers such purchased accounts receivable in their entirety to the Purchasers pursuant to a receivables purchase agreement. In exchange for the transfer of the accounts receivable, ADM Receivables receives a cash payment of up to $1.0 billion and an additional amount upon the collection of the accounts receivable (deferred consideration). ADM Receivables uses the cash proceeds from the transfer of receivables to the Purchasers and other consideration to finance the purchase of receivables from the Company and the ADM subsidiaries originating the receivables. The Company acts as master servicer, responsible for servicing and collecting the accounts receivable under the Program. The Program terminates on June 28, 2013 (see Note 20 for more information and disclosures on the Program). As of June 30, 2012, the fair value of trade receivables transferred to the Purchasers under the Program and derecognized from the Companys consolidated balance sheet was $1.6 billion. In exchange for the transfer, the Company received cash of $1.0 billion and recorded a receivable for deferred consideration included in other current assets. The Company has outstanding $1.4 billion principal amount of floating rate notes due on August 13, 2012. Interest on the notes accrues at a floating rate three month LIBOR reset quarterly plus 0.16% and is paid quarterly. As of June 30, 2012, the interest rate on the notes was 0.63%. In August 2012, the Company paid these notes with funds available from short term borrowings. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) The Company has outstanding $1.15 billion principal amount of convertible senior notes. As of June 30, 2012, none of the conditions permitting conversion of these notes had been satisfied. The Company has purchased call options and warrants intended to reduce the potential shareholder dilution upon future conversion of the notes. As of June 30, 2012, the market price of the Companys common stock was not greater than the exercise price of the purchased call options or warrants related to the convertible senior notes. The Company is currently experiencing generally higher prices for agricultural commodities as a result of tightening crop supplies, mostly due to weather impacts on current year U.S. corn and soybean crop production. Higher prices of commodities have historically correlated with increases in the Companys working capital requirements. The Company depends on access to credit markets, which can be impacted by its credit rating and factors outside of the Companys control, such as the European debt situation, to fund its working capital needs and capital expenditures. The Company expects capital expenditures to range from $0.5 billion to $0.6 billion for the upcoming 6 month period ending December 31, 2012. On November 5, 2009, the Companys Board of Directors approved a stock repurchase program authorizing the Company to repurchase up to 100,000,000 shares of the Companys common stock during the period commencing January 1, 2010 and ending December 31, 2014. The Company has acquired approximately 31.6 million shares under this program, resulting in remaining approval to acquire 68.4 million shares. The Companys credit facilities and certain debentures require the Company to comply with specified financial and non financial covenants including maintenance of minimum tangible net worth as well as limitations related to incurring liens, secured debt, and certain other financing arrangements. The Company is in compliance with these covenants as of June 30, 2012. Contractual Obligations In the normal course of business, the Company enters into contracts and commitments which obligate the Company to make payments in the future. The following table sets forth the Companys significant future obligations by time period. Purchases include commodity based contracts entered into in the normal course of business, which are further described in Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, energy related purchase contracts entered into in the normal course of business, and other purchase obligations related to the Companys normal business activities. The following table does not include unrecognized income tax benefits of $80 million as of June 30, 2012 as the Company is unable to reasonably estimate the timing of settlement. Where applicable, information included in the Companys consolidated financial statements and notes is cross referenced in this table. Payments Due by Period Contractual Item 8 Note Less than 1 3 3 5 More than Obligations Reference Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years (In millions) Purchases Inventories $ 17,724 $ 17,307 $ 211 $ 130 $ 76 Energy 866 390 233 87 156 Other 242 145 86 10 1 Total purchases 18,832 17,842 530 227 233 Short term debt 2,108 2,108 Long term debt Note 10 8,212 1,677 1,114 320 5,101 Estimated interest payments 6,688 374 650 636 5,028 Operating leases Note 16 1,135 244 365 263 263 Estimated pension and other postretirement plan contributions (1) Note 17 188 64 23 25 76 Total $ 37,163 $ 22,309 $ 2,682 $ 1,471 $ 10,701 (1) Includes pension contributions of $53 million for fiscal 2013. The Company is unable to estimate the amount of pension contributions beyond fiscal year 2013. For more information concerning the Companys pension and other postretirement plans, see Note 17 in Item 8. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) At June 30, 2012, the Company estimates it will spend approximately $2.1 billion through calendar year 2015 to complete currently approved capital projects which are not included in the table above. The Company also has outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds of $644 million at June 30, 2012. In addition, the Company has entered into agreements, primarily debt guarantee agreements related to equity method investees, which could obligate the Company to make future payments. The Companys liability under these agreements arises only if the primary entity fails to perform its contractual obligation. The Company has collateral for a portion of these contingent obligations. At June 30, 2012, these contingent obligations totaled approximately $30 million. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements On March 27, 2012, the Company entered into an amendment of its accounts receivable securitization program (as amended, the Program) with certain commercial paper conduit purchasers and committed purchasers (collectively, the Purchasers). Under the Program, certain U.S. originated trade accounts receivable are sold to a wholly owned bankruptcy remote entity, ADM Receivables, LLC (ADM Receivables). ADM Receivables in turn transfers such purchased accounts receivable in their entirety to the Purchasers pursuant to a receivables purchase agreement. In exchange for the transfer of the accounts receivable, ADM Receivables receives a cash payment of up to $1.0 billion and an additional amount upon the collection of the accounts receivable (deferred consideration). ADM Receivables uses the cash proceeds from the transfer of receivables to the Purchasers and other consideration to finance the purchase of receivables from the Company and the ADM subsidiaries originating the receivables. The Company accounts for these transfers as sales. The Company has no retained interests in the transferred receivables, other than collection and administrative responsibilities and its right to the deferred consideration. At June 30, 2012, the Company did not record a servicing asset or liability related to its retained responsibility, based on its assessment of the servicing fee, market values for similar transactions and its cost of servicing the receivables sold. The Program terminates on June 28, 2013. As of June 30, 2012, the fair value of trade receivables transferred to the Purchasers under the Program and derecognized from the Companys consolidated balance sheet was $1.6 billion. In exchange for the transfer, the Company received cash of $1.0 billion and recorded a receivable for deferred consideration included in other current assets. Cash collections from customers on receivables sold were $8.9 billion for the four months ended June 30, 2012. Of this amount, $8.9 billion pertains to cash collections on the deferred consideration. Deferred consideration is paid to the Company in cash on behalf of the Purchasers as receivables are collected; however, as this is a revolving facility, cash collected from the Companys customers is reinvested by the Purchasers daily in new receivable purchases under the Program. The Companys risk of loss following the transfer of accounts receivable under the Program is limited to the deferred consideration outstanding, which is classified as other current assets and was $0.6 billion at June 30, 2012. The Company carries the deferred consideration at fair value determined by calculating the expected amount of cash to be received and is principally based on observable inputs (a Level 2 measurement under ASC 820) consisting mainly of the face amount of the receivables adjusted for anticipated credit losses and discounted at the appropriate market rate. Payment of deferred consideration is not subject to significant risks other than delinquencies and credit losses on accounts receivable transferred under the program which have historically been insignificant. Transfers of receivables under the Program during the year ended June 30, 2012 resulted in an expense for the loss on sale of $4 million which is classified as selling, general, and administrative expenses in the consolidated statements of earnings. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Critical Accounting Policies The process of preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the carrying values of the Companys assets and liabilities as well as the recognition of revenues and expenses. These estimates and judgments are based on the Companys historical experience and managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Certain of the Companys accounting policies are considered critical, as these policies are important to the depiction of the Companys financial statements and require significant or complex judgment by management. Management has discussed with the Companys Audit Committee the development, selection, disclosure, and application of these critical accounting policies. Following are the accounting policies management considers critical to the Companys financial statements. Fair Value Measurements Inventories and Derivatives Certain of the Companys assets and liabilities as of June 30, 2012 are valued at estimated fair values, including $6.8 billion of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, $3.1 billion of derivative assets, $3.0 billion of derivative liabilities, and $0.3 billion of inventory related payables. Derivative assets and liabilities include forward fixed price purchase and sale contracts for agricultural commodities, forward foreign exchange contracts, and over the counter instruments such as options contracts. The merchandisable agricultural commodities are freely traded, have quoted market prices, and may be sold without significant additional processing. Management estimates fair value for its commodity related assets and liabilities based on exchange quoted prices, adjusted for differences in local markets. The Companys fair value measurements are mainly based on observable market quotations without significant adjustments and are therefore reported as Level 1 or Level 2 within the fair value hierarchy. Level 3 fair value measurements represent fair value estimates where unobservable price components represent 10% or more of the total fair value price. For more information concerning amounts reported as Level 3, see Note 3 in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Changes in the market values of these inventories and contracts are recognized in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. If management used different methods or factors to estimate market value, amounts reported as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. Additionally, if market conditions change subsequent to year end, amounts reported in future periods as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. Derivatives Designated Hedging Activities The Company, from time to time, uses derivative contracts designated as cash flow hedges to fix the purchase price of anticipated volumes of commodities to be purchased and processed in a future month, to fix the purchase price of the Companys anticipated natural gas requirements for certain production facilities, and to fix the sales price of anticipated volumes of ethanol. These designated hedging programs principally relate to the Companys Corn Processing operating segment. The change in the market value of such derivative contracts has historically been, and is expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold and net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. If it is determined that the derivative instruments used are no longer effective at offsetting changes in the price of the hedged item, then the changes in the market value of these exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts would be recorded immediately in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. See Note 4 in Item 8 for additional information. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Investments in Affiliates The Company applies the equity method of accounting for investments over which the Company has the ability to exercise significant influence, including its 16.4% investment in Wilmar. These investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings and are adjusted, where appropriate, for amortizable basis differences between the investment balance and the underlying net assets of the investee. Generally, the minimum ownership threshold for asserting significant influence is 20% ownership of the investee. However, the Company considers all relevant factors in determining its ability to assert significant influence including but not limited to, ownership percentage, board membership, customer and vendor relationships, and other arrangements. If management used a different accounting method for these investments, then the amount of earnings from affiliates the Company recognizes may differ. Income Taxes The Company frequently faces challenges from U.S. and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company records reserves for estimates of potential additional tax owed by the Company. As an example, a subsidiary of the Company received tax assessments in the amount of $570 million consisting of tax, penalty, and interest (adjusted for interest and variation in currency exchange rates) from the Brazilian Federal Revenue Service challenging the deductibility of commodity hedging losses incurred by the Company for tax years 2004, 2006 and 2007. The Company evaluated its tax position regarding these hedging transactions and concluded, based in part upon advice from Brazilian legal counsel, that it was appropriate to recognize the tax benefits of these deductions (see Note 15 in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for additional information). Deferred tax assets represent items to be used as tax deductions or credits in future tax returns, and the related tax benefit has already been recognized in the Companys income statement. The realization of the Companys deferred tax assets is dependent upon future taxable income in specific tax jurisdictions, the timing and amount of which are uncertain. The Company evaluates all available positive and negative evidence including estimated future reversals of existing temporary differences, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies, and recent financial results. Valuation allowances related to these deferred tax assets have been established to the extent the realization of the tax benefit is not likely. To the extent the Company were to favorably resolve matters for which accruals have been established or be required to pay amounts in excess of the aforementioned reserves, the Companys effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be impacted. Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and the Companys share of the undistributed earnings of affiliated corporate joint venture companies accounted for on the equity method amounting to approximately $7.2 billion at June 30, 2012, are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Property, Plant, and Equipment and Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand, changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned factors may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and cash flows of the Companys assets in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its facilities. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment, technology, and companies related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. Assets are written down after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these assets, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. During 2012, 2011, and 2010, impairment charges were $367 million, $2 million, and $9 million, respectively (see Note 19 for additional information on charges taken in 2012). Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets Goodwill and intangible assets deemed to have indefinite lives are not amortized but are subject to annual impairment tests. The Company evaluates goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year or whenever there are indicators that the carrying value of the assets may not be fully recoverable. Definite lived intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives and are reviewed for impairment whenever there are indicators that the carrying value of the assets may not be fully recoverable. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its impairment tests, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Employee Benefit Plans The Company provides substantially all U.S. employees and employees at certain international subsidiaries with pension benefits. Eligible U.S. employees with five or more years of service prior to January 1, 2009 participate in a defined benefit pension plan. Eligible U.S. employees hired on or after January 1, 2009 (and eligible salaried employees with less than five years of service prior to January 1, 2009) participate in a cash balance pension formula. The Company provides eligible U.S. employees who retire under qualifying conditions with access to postretirement health care, at full cost to the retiree (certain employees are grandfathered into subsidized coverage). In order to measure the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans, management makes several estimates and assumptions, including interest rates used to discount certain liabilities, rates of return on assets set aside to fund these plans, rates of compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and anticipated future health care costs. These estimates and assumptions are based on the Companys historical experience combined with managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Management also uses third party actuaries to assist in measuring the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans. If management used different estimates and assumptions regarding these plans, the funded status of the plans could vary significantly, and the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. See Note 17 in Item 8 for additional information. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in: commodity market prices as they relate to the Companys net commodity position, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and prices of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to factors such as changes in weather conditions, crop disease, plantings, government programs and policies, competition, changes in global demand, changes in customer preferences and standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. The Company manages its exposure to adverse price movements of agricultural commodities used for, and produced in, its business operations, by entering into derivative and non derivative contracts which reduce the Companys overall short or long commodity position. Additionally, the Company uses exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the correlation between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contract defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company, from time to time, enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed designated hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold or net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. The Companys commodity position consists of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, related purchase and sales contracts, energy and freight contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts including contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements, net of sales. The fair value of the Companys commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing all of the commodity positions at quoted market prices for the period, where available, or utilizing a close proxy. The Company has established metrics to monitor the amount of market risk exposure, which consist of volumetric limits, and value at risk (VaR) limits. VaR measures the potential loss, at a 95% confidence level, that could be incurred over a one year period. Volumetric limits are monitored daily and VaR calculations and sensitivity analysis are monitored weekly. In addition to measuring the hypothetical loss resulting from an adverse two standard deviation move in market prices (assuming no correlations) over a one year period using VaR, sensitivity analysis is performed measuring the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in market prices. The highest, lowest, and average weekly position for each of the last two years together with the market risk from a hypothetical 10% adverse price change is as follows: 2012 2011 Long/(Short) Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest position $ 1,477 $ 148 $ 2,388 $ 239 Lowest position (383 ) (38 ) 368 37 Average position 546 55 1,644 164 The decline in fair value of the average position for 2012 compared to 2011 was principally the result of the decline in average quantities underlying the weekly commodity position. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) Currencies The Company has consolidated subsidiaries in over 75 countries. For the majority of the Companys subsidiaries located outside the United States, the local currency is the functional currency. To reduce the risks associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, the Company enters into currency exchange contracts to minimize its foreign currency position related to transactions denominated primarily in Euro, British pound, Canadian dollar, and Brazilian real currencies. These currencies represent the major functional or local currencies in which recurring business transactions occur. The Company does not use currency exchange contracts as hedges against amounts permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The currency exchange contracts used are forward contracts, swaps with banks, exchange traded futures contracts, and over the counter options. The changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $7.2 billion at June 30, 2012, and $8.2 billion at June 30, 2011. This decrease is due to the depreciation of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar partially offset by an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The potential loss in fair value, which would principally be recognized in Other Comprehensive Income, resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $722 million and $823 million for 2012 and 2011, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 50 basis points decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2012 2011 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 8,057 $ 9,108 Excess of fair value over carrying value 1,522 842 Market risk 422 333 The decrease in fair value of long term debt in 2012 resulted principally from the reclassification of $1.5 billion in floating rate notes to short term debt partially offset by decreased interest rates. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) 2011 Compared to 2010 As an agricultural commodity based business, the Company is subject to a variety of market factors which affect the Companys operating results. In 2011, prices for certain agricultural commodities were higher in response to growing global demand and tighter crop supplies. The projections of lower 2011 carryover stocks for certain key commodities, coupled with regional crop supply dislocations for certain commodities, also led to high commodity price volatility. Global demand for agricultural commodities grew in 2011, resulting in increased sales volumes for most of the Companys products. The large 2010 North American harvest resulted in global merchandising, handling, and processing opportunities. Protein meal markets for commercial livestock producers in the U.S., particularly poultry producers, faced challenging conditions. Biodiesel markets in Europe and South America, together with the 2011 extension of the U.S. biodiesel blenders credit, helped support global demand for refined and crude vegetable oils. Sweeteners and starches demand remained strong in 2011 due primarily to U.S. exports of sweeteners and improved demand for industrial starches. Ethanol sales volumes, including increased volumes as the Companys new dry mills ramped up, were supported by favorable gasoline blending economics in the U.S. and good export demand. Net earnings increased $106 million to $2.0 billion due principally to a $794 million increase in segment operating profit partially offset by a negative impact from changing LIFO inventory valuations and higher income taxes. In 2011, the Company successfully managed through significant increases in market prices for most of its agricultural commodity raw materials, resulting in increased segment operating profit. Earnings before income taxes includes charges of $368 million from the effect of increasing agricultural commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuation reserves, compared to credits of $42 million in the prior year caused by decreasing agricultural commodity prices. Income taxes increased $331 million due to a higher effective income tax rate and higher earnings before income taxes. The effective income tax rate of 33.1% for 2011 was the result of changes in the geographic mix of earnings and unfavorable specific tax items. The fully diluted earnings per share calculation for 2011 was impacted by the completion of the Companys debt remarketing related to the $1.75 billion Equity Units. While the approximately 44 million new common shares related to the $1.75 billion Equity Units were not issued until June 1, 2011, the if converted method of accounting for diluted earnings per share required diluted EPS to be calculated as if the Company issued the shares on January 1, 2011, and this assumption resulted in a dilutive impact of $0.04 on earnings per share (See Note 11 in the accompanying consolidated financial statements). Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Analysis of Statements of Earnings Net sales and other operating income by segment are as follows: 2011 2010 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing and Origination $ 16,518 $ 14,411 $ 2,107 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel, and Other 9,476 7,133 2,343 Cocoa and Other 3,652 2,678 974 Asia 262 190 72 Total Oilseeds Processing 29,908 24,412 5,496 Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 3,766 3,264 502 Bioproducts 6,142 4,610 1,532 Total Corn Processing 9,908 7,874 2,034 Agricultural Services Merchandising and Handling 36,852 25,751 11,101 Transportation 222 167 55 Milling and Other 3,676 3,383 293 Total Agricultural Services 40,750 29,301 11,449 Other Financial 110 95 15 Total Other 110 95 15 Total $ 80,676 $ 61,682 $ 18,994 Net sales and other operating income increased $19.0 billion, or 31%, to $80.7 billion. Net sales and other operating income increased $14.2 billion due to higher average selling prices, primarily related to higher underlying commodity costs, and increased $4.8 billion due to increased sales volumes, including sales volumes from acquisitions. Agricultural Services sales increased 39% to $40.8 billion due to higher average selling prices of agricultural commodities and higher global sales volumes. Oilseeds Processing sales increased 23% to $29.9 billion primarily due to higher average selling prices for vegetable oils, soybeans, biodiesel, and protein meal. Corn Processing sales increased 26% to $9.9 billion due to higher average selling prices and increased sales volumes of ethanol and other corn products, in part due to the Companys two new ethanol dry mills coming on line. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Cost of products sold increased 32% to $76.4 billion due to higher costs of agricultural commodities, negative impacts resulting from changes in LIFO inventory valuations, and higher manufacturing costs. Cost of products sold includes charges of $368 million from the effect of increasing agricultural commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuation reserves, compared to credits of $42 million in the prior year caused by decreasing agricultural commodity prices. Manufacturing expenses increased $410 million due primarily to higher processed volumes, including the volumes of the Companys new greenfield operations coming on line, and higher average unit costs for certain chemicals and fuels used in the Companys processing and transportation operations. During the second quarter of fiscal 2011, the Company updated its estimates for service lives of certain of its machinery and equipment assets. This change in estimate resulted in a $133 million decrease in depreciation expense compared to the amount of depreciation expense the Company would have recorded using the previously estimated service lives. Manufacturing expenses included $94 million in fiscal 2011 related to the start up of new plants compared to $110 million in the prior year. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased 15% to $1.6 billion. This increase was due to higher employee related costs and higher administrative expenses. Higher employee related costs principally reflect the increase in number of employees during the year and included higher salaries and wages, higher accruals for performance based compensation and higher benefit expenses. Equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates declined 3% to $542 million. The decline in earnings from the Companys equity investee, Wilmar, was partially offset by higher earnings of the Companys equity investee, Gruma, in part due to a gain on Grumas disposition of certain assets. Interest income increased 8% to $136 million principally resulting from higher interest earned on advances to affiliates. Interest expense increased 14% to $482 million. Interest costs capitalized as a component of major construction projects in progress was $7 million compared to $75 million in the prior year. Interest incurred on long term debt declined $24 million as a result of debt retirements while interest incurred on short term debt increased $15 million due to higher average borrowings driven by higher working capital requirements. Other (income) expense net increased $255 million primarily due to the $71 million gain resulting from the revaluation of the Companys previously held equity interest in Golden Peanut upon acquisition of the remaining 50% interest, gains on interest rate swaps of $30 million compared to a loss of $59 million in the prior year, and a decrease in charges related to early extinguishment of debt from $75 million in the prior year to $15 million in the current year. Income taxes increased $331 million to $997 million due to a higher effective income tax rate and higher pretax earnings. The Companys effective income tax rate increased to 33.1% during 2011 compared to 25.8% in fiscal 2010. The increase in the 2011 rate was primarily due to a geographic mix of earnings that shifted more to the U.S., a higher U.S. effective income tax rate, income tax expense associated with foreign currency re measurement of non monetary assets in Brazil, and adjustments to deferred income tax balances. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Operating profit by segment is as follows: 2011 2010 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing and Origination $ 925 $ 834 $ 91 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel, and Other 342 300 42 Cocoa and Other 240 126 114 Asia 183 291 (108 ) Total Oilseeds Processing 1,690 1,551 139 Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 330 538 (208 ) Bioproducts 749 200 549 Total Corn Processing 1,079 738 341 Agricultural Services Merchandising and Handling 807 562 245 Transportation 117 96 21 Milling and Other 399 344 55 Total Agricultural Services 1,323 1,002 321 Other Financial 39 46 (7 ) Total Other 39 46 (7 ) Total Segment Operating Profit 4,131 3,337 794 Corporate (see below) (1,116 ) (752 ) (364 ) Earnings Before Income Taxes $ 3,015 $ 2,585 $ 430 Corporate results are as follows: 2011 2010 Change (In millions) LIFO credit $ (368 ) $ 42 $ (410 ) Interest expense net (445 ) (381 ) (64 ) Unallocated corporate costs (326 ) (266 ) (60 ) Charges on early extinguishment of debt (8 ) (75 ) 67 Gains (losses) on interest rate swaps 30 (59 ) 89 Other 1 (13 ) 14 Total Corporate $ (1,116 ) $ (752 ) $ (364 ) Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Oilseeds Processing operating profit increased 9% to $1.7 billion. Crushing and Origination results increased $91 million to $925 million. Improved North American crushing results, particularly for cotton seed and canola, were partially offset by lower crushing margins in South America and Europe. Margins globally were enhanced by good positioning and by improved origination results. In South America, fertilizer results improved due to higher margins and volumes. Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel and Other results increased $42 million to $342 million due principally to higher packaged oils margins and improved North American and European biodiesel results. Cocoa and Other results increased $114 million to $240 million primarily due to the $71 million gain on the revaluation of the Companys equity interest in Golden Peanut and higher peanut profits as a result of the December 31, 2010 acquisition of the remaining 50% interest of Golden Peanut. Asia results decreased $108 million due principally to decreased earnings from the Companys equity investee, Wilmar. Corn Processing operating profit increased 46% to $1.1 billion, which includes favorable impacts from ownership positions, which were allocated to sweeteners and starches and bioproducts based on total grind. Sweeteners and Starches operating profit decreased $208 million to $330 million due to higher net corn costs partially offset by higher sales volumes. Sales volumes increased due to U.S. export shipments of sweeteners and improved U.S. demand for industrial starches. Bioproducts operating profit improved $549 million primarily due to higher ethanol sales volumes and higher average selling prices leading to increased ethanol and lysine margins. Bioproducts margins were also enhanced by favorable corn ownership positions. Bioproducts results included startup costs related to the Companys new plants of $94 million in 2011 compared to $107 million in the prior year. Agricultural Services operating profit increased 32% to $1.3 billion. Merchandising and Handling results increased due to higher corn and wheat sales volumes and higher margins. A large 2010 U.S. harvest combined with strong international demand resulted in higher U.S. export shipments. Merchandising and Handling results in 2011 included an insurance recovery of $67 million related to property damage and business interruption resulting from an October 2008 explosion at the Companys Destrehan, LA, export facility. International merchandising results were weaker in part due to positions impacted by unexpected shifts in crop supply caused by weather conditions and government actions in the Black Sea region. Transportation results increased $21 million to $117 million primarily due to higher barge freight rates and higher barge utilization levels, in part due to higher U.S. export volumes. Milling and Other results improved due principally to increased equity earnings from the Companys equity investee, Gruma which include a $78 million gain related to Grumas disposal of certain assets. Other financial operating profit decreased 15% to $39 million primarily due to higher captive insurance loss provisions principally related to a $67 million loss related to the Companys Destrehan, LA, export facility insurance claim. Corporate results decreased $364 million primarily due to the negative impact from changing LIFO inventory valuations and higher interest expense net. The effects of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory reserves resulted in charges of $368 million compared to credits of $42 million for the prior year. Corporate interest expense increased $64 million mostly due to lower capitalization of interest costs for construction projects in progress. Partially offsetting the higher LIFO and interest costs were $30 million of gains on interest rate swaps compared to prior year losses on interest rate swaps of $59 million. In addition, 2010 included charges of $75 million on early debt extinguishment compared to $8 million of similar charges in 2011. Liquidity and Capital Resources A Company objective is to have sufficient liquidity, balance sheet strength, and financial flexibility to fund the operating and capital requirements of a capital intensive agricultural commodity based business. The primary source of funds to finance the Companys operations and capital expenditures is cash generated by operations and lines of credit, including a commercial paper borrowing facility. In addition, the Company believes it has access to funds from public and private equity and debt capital markets in both U.S. and international markets. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Cash provided by operating activities was $2.9 billion for the year compared to cash used in operating activities of $2.3 billion last year. Working capital decreased $0.3 billion since the beginning of fiscal 2012 due principally to the $1.0 billion account receivable securitization program discussed below. In fiscal 2011 working capital increased $5.2 billion due principally to higher agricultural commodity prices. Cash used in investing activities was $1.1 billion for the year compared to a $1.7 billion use last year. Capital expenditures were $1.5 billion for the year compared to $1.2 billion last year. The Company spent approximately $0.2 billion on acquisitions in fiscal 2012 and 2011. Related to the sale of the majority interest in Hickory Point Bank, the Company reduced its holdings of marketable securities generating cash of $0.3 billion and divested cash of $0.1 billion as a result of the deconsolidation. In fiscal 2011, net purchases of marketable securities used $0.3 billion of cash. Cash used in financing activities was $1.1 billion for the year compared to cash provided by financing activities of $3.6 billion last year. In fiscal 2012, the Company returned nearly $1.0 billion to shareholders in the form of dividends and share repurchases, including the acquisition of 18.4 million of its common shares for $0.5 billion. In fiscal 2011 net borrowings increased primarily to fund higher working capital. Short term borrowings increased due principally to higher commercial paper borrowings, and long term borrowings increased primarily as a result of the issuance of $1.5 billion of 18 month floating rate notes in February 2011. In addition the Company issued 44 million shares of common stock and received $1.75 billion in fiscal 2011 under the forward stock purchase component of the Companys Equity Units (see Note 10 in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data). At June 30, 2012, the Company had $1.5 billion of cash, cash equivalents, and short term marketable securities and a current ratio, defined as current assets divided by current liabilities, of 1.8 to 1. Included in working capital is $7.8 billion of readily marketable commodity inventories. At June 30, 2012, the Companys capital resources included net worth of $18.2 billion and lines of credit totaling $6.5 billion, of which $4.4 billion was unused. The Companys ratio of long term debt to total capital (the sum of the Companys long term debt and shareholders equity) was 26% at June 30, 2012 and 30% at June 30, 2011. This ratio is a measure of the Companys long term indebtedness and is an indicator of financial flexibility. Of the Companys total lines of credit, $4.3 billion support a commercial paper borrowing facility, against which there were $1.3 billion of commercial paper outstanding at June 30, 2012. In August 2012, the Company added a $2.0 billion credit facility which will support commercial paper borrowings. On March 27, 2012, the Company entered into an amendment of its accounts receivable securitization program (as amended, the Program) with certain commercial paper conduit purchasers and committed purchasers (collectively, the Purchasers). The Program provides the Company with up to $1.0 billion in funding against accounts receivable transferred into the Program and expands the Companys access to liquidity through efficient use of its balance sheet assets. Under the Program, certain U.S. originated trade accounts receivable are sold to a wholly owned bankruptcy remote entity, ADM Receivables, LLC (ADM Receivables). ADM Receivables in turn transfers such purchased accounts receivable in their entirety to the Purchasers pursuant to a receivables purchase agreement. In exchange for the transfer of the accounts receivable, ADM Receivables receives a cash payment of up to $1.0 billion and an additional amount upon the collection of the accounts receivable (deferred consideration). ADM Receivables uses the cash proceeds from the transfer of receivables to the Purchasers and other consideration to finance the purchase of receivables from the Company and the ADM subsidiaries originating the receivables. The Company acts as master servicer, responsible for servicing and collecting the accounts receivable under the Program. The Program terminates on June 28, 2013 (see Note 20 for more information and disclosures on the Program). As of June 30, 2012, the fair value of trade receivables transferred to the Purchasers under the Program and derecognized from the Companys consolidated balance sheet was $1.6 billion. In exchange for the transfer, the Company received cash of $1.0 billion and recorded a receivable for deferred consideration included in other current assets. The Company has outstanding $1.4 billion principal amount of floating rate notes due on August 13, 2012. Interest on the notes accrues at a floating rate three month LIBOR reset quarterly plus 0.16% and is paid quarterly. As of June 30, 2012, the interest rate on the notes was 0.63%. In August 2012, the Company paid these notes with funds available from short term borrowings. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) The Company has outstanding $1.15 billion principal amount of convertible senior notes. As of June 30, 2012, none of the conditions permitting conversion of these notes had been satisfied. The Company has purchased call options and warrants intended to reduce the potential shareholder dilution upon future conversion of the notes. As of June 30, 2012, the market price of the Companys common stock was not greater than the exercise price of the purchased call options or warrants related to the convertible senior notes. The Company is currently experiencing generally higher prices for agricultural commodities as a result of tightening crop supplies, mostly due to weather impacts on current year U.S. corn and soybean crop production. Higher prices of commodities have historically correlated with increases in the Companys working capital requirements. The Company depends on access to credit markets, which can be impacted by its credit rating and factors outside of the Companys control, such as the European debt situation, to fund its working capital needs and capital expenditures. The Company expects capital expenditures to range from $0.5 billion to $0.6 billion for the upcoming 6 month period ending December 31, 2012. On November 5, 2009, the Companys Board of Directors approved a stock repurchase program authorizing the Company to repurchase up to 100,000,000 shares of the Companys common stock during the period commencing January 1, 2010 and ending December 31, 2014. The Company has acquired approximately 31.6 million shares under this program, resulting in remaining approval to acquire 68.4 million shares. The Companys credit facilities and certain debentures require the Company to comply with specified financial and non financial covenants including maintenance of minimum tangible net worth as well as limitations related to incurring liens, secured debt, and certain other financing arrangements. The Company is in compliance with these covenants as of June 30, 2012. Contractual Obligations In the normal course of business, the Company enters into contracts and commitments which obligate the Company to make payments in the future. The following table sets forth the Companys significant future obligations by time period. Purchases include commodity based contracts entered into in the normal course of business, which are further described in Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, energy related purchase contracts entered into in the normal course of business, and other purchase obligations related to the Companys normal business activities. The following table does not include unrecognized income tax benefits of $80 million as of June 30, 2012 as the Company is unable to reasonably estimate the timing of settlement. Where applicable, information included in the Companys consolidated financial statements and notes is cross referenced in this table. Payments Due by Period Contractual Item 8 Note Less than 1 3 3 5 More than Obligations Reference Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years (In millions) Purchases Inventories $ 17,724 $ 17,307 $ 211 $ 130 $ 76 Energy 866 390 233 87 156 Other 242 145 86 10 1 Total purchases 18,832 17,842 530 227 233 Short term debt 2,108 2,108 Long term debt Note 10 8,212 1,677 1,114 320 5,101 Estimated interest payments 6,688 374 650 636 5,028 Operating leases Note 16 1,135 244 365 263 263 Estimated pension and other postretirement plan contributions (1) Note 17 188 64 23 25 76 Total $ 37,163 $ 22,309 $ 2,682 $ 1,471 $ 10,701 (1) Includes pension contributions of $53 million for fiscal 2013. The Company is unable to estimate the amount of pension contributions beyond fiscal year 2013. For more information concerning the Companys pension and other postretirement plans, see Note 17 in Item 8. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) At June 30, 2012, the Company estimates it will spend approximately $2.1 billion through calendar year 2015 to complete currently approved capital projects which are not included in the table above. The Company also has outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds of $644 million at June 30, 2012. In addition, the Company has entered into agreements, primarily debt guarantee agreements related to equity method investees, which could obligate the Company to make future payments. The Companys liability under these agreements arises only if the primary entity fails to perform its contractual obligation. The Company has collateral for a portion of these contingent obligations. At June 30, 2012, these contingent obligations totaled approximately $30 million. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements On March 27, 2012, the Company entered into an amendment of its accounts receivable securitization program (as amended, the Program) with certain commercial paper conduit purchasers and committed purchasers (collectively, the Purchasers). Under the Program, certain U.S. originated trade accounts receivable are sold to a wholly owned bankruptcy remote entity, ADM Receivables, LLC (ADM Receivables). ADM Receivables in turn transfers such purchased accounts receivable in their entirety to the Purchasers pursuant to a receivables purchase agreement. In exchange for the transfer of the accounts receivable, ADM Receivables receives a cash payment of up to $1.0 billion and an additional amount upon the collection of the accounts receivable (deferred consideration). ADM Receivables uses the cash proceeds from the transfer of receivables to the Purchasers and other consideration to finance the purchase of receivables from the Company and the ADM subsidiaries originating the receivables. The Company accounts for these transfers as sales. The Company has no retained interests in the transferred receivables, other than collection and administrative responsibilities and its right to the deferred consideration. At June 30, 2012, the Company did not record a servicing asset or liability related to its retained responsibility, based on its assessment of the servicing fee, market values for similar transactions and its cost of servicing the receivables sold. The Program terminates on June 28, 2013. As of June 30, 2012, the fair value of trade receivables transferred to the Purchasers under the Program and derecognized from the Companys consolidated balance sheet was $1.6 billion. In exchange for the transfer, the Company received cash of $1.0 billion and recorded a receivable for deferred consideration included in other current assets. Cash collections from customers on receivables sold were $8.9 billion for the four months ended June 30, 2012. Of this amount, $8.9 billion pertains to cash collections on the deferred consideration. Deferred consideration is paid to the Company in cash on behalf of the Purchasers as receivables are collected; however, as this is a revolving facility, cash collected from the Companys customers is reinvested by the Purchasers daily in new receivable purchases under the Program. The Companys risk of loss following the transfer of accounts receivable under the Program is limited to the deferred consideration outstanding, which is classified as other current assets and was $0.6 billion at June 30, 2012. The Company carries the deferred consideration at fair value determined by calculating the expected amount of cash to be received and is principally based on observable inputs (a Level 2 measurement under ASC 820) consisting mainly of the face amount of the receivables adjusted for anticipated credit losses and discounted at the appropriate market rate. Payment of deferred consideration is not subject to significant risks other than delinquencies and credit losses on accounts receivable transferred under the program which have historically been insignificant. Transfers of receivables under the Program during the year ended June 30, 2012 resulted in an expense for the loss on sale of $4 million which is classified as selling, general, and administrative expenses in the consolidated statements of earnings. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Critical Accounting Policies The process of preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the carrying values of the Companys assets and liabilities as well as the recognition of revenues and expenses. These estimates and judgments are based on the Companys historical experience and managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Certain of the Companys accounting policies are considered critical, as these policies are important to the depiction of the Companys financial statements and require significant or complex judgment by management. Management has discussed with the Companys Audit Committee the development, selection, disclosure, and application of these critical accounting policies. Following are the accounting policies management considers critical to the Companys financial statements. Fair Value Measurements Inventories and Derivatives Certain of the Companys assets and liabilities as of June 30, 2012 are valued at estimated fair values, including $6.8 billion of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, $3.1 billion of derivative assets, $3.0 billion of derivative liabilities, and $0.3 billion of inventory related payables. Derivative assets and liabilities include forward fixed price purchase and sale contracts for agricultural commodities, forward foreign exchange contracts, and over the counter instruments such as options contracts. The merchandisable agricultural commodities are freely traded, have quoted market prices, and may be sold without significant additional processing. Management estimates fair value for its commodity related assets and liabilities based on exchange quoted prices, adjusted for differences in local markets. The Companys fair value measurements are mainly based on observable market quotations without significant adjustments and are therefore reported as Level 1 or Level 2 within the fair value hierarchy. Level 3 fair value measurements represent fair value estimates where unobservable price components represent 10% or more of the total fair value price. For more information concerning amounts reported as Level 3, see Note 3 in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Changes in the market values of these inventories and contracts are recognized in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. If management used different methods or factors to estimate market value, amounts reported as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. Additionally, if market conditions change subsequent to year end, amounts reported in future periods as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. Derivatives Designated Hedging Activities The Company, from time to time, uses derivative contracts designated as cash flow hedges to fix the purchase price of anticipated volumes of commodities to be purchased and processed in a future month, to fix the purchase price of the Companys anticipated natural gas requirements for certain production facilities, and to fix the sales price of anticipated volumes of ethanol. These designated hedging programs principally relate to the Companys Corn Processing operating segment. The change in the market value of such derivative contracts has historically been, and is expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold and net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. If it is determined that the derivative instruments used are no longer effective at offsetting changes in the price of the hedged item, then the changes in the market value of these exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts would be recorded immediately in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. See Note 4 in Item 8 for additional information. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Investments in Affiliates The Company applies the equity method of accounting for investments over which the Company has the ability to exercise significant influence, including its 16.4% investment in Wilmar. These investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings and are adjusted, where appropriate, for amortizable basis differences between the investment balance and the underlying net assets of the investee. Generally, the minimum ownership threshold for asserting significant influence is 20% ownership of the investee. However, the Company considers all relevant factors in determining its ability to assert significant influence including but not limited to, ownership percentage, board membership, customer and vendor relationships, and other arrangements. If management used a different accounting method for these investments, then the amount of earnings from affiliates the Company recognizes may differ. Income Taxes The Company frequently faces challenges from U.S. and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company records reserves for estimates of potential additional tax owed by the Company. As an example, a subsidiary of the Company received tax assessments in the amount of $570 million consisting of tax, penalty, and interest (adjusted for interest and variation in currency exchange rates) from the Brazilian Federal Revenue Service challenging the deductibility of commodity hedging losses incurred by the Company for tax years 2004, 2006 and 2007. The Company evaluated its tax position regarding these hedging transactions and concluded, based in part upon advice from Brazilian legal counsel, that it was appropriate to recognize the tax benefits of these deductions (see Note 15 in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for additional information). Deferred tax assets represent items to be used as tax deductions or credits in future tax returns, and the related tax benefit has already been recognized in the Companys income statement. The realization of the Companys deferred tax assets is dependent upon future taxable income in specific tax jurisdictions, the timing and amount of which are uncertain. The Company evaluates all available positive and negative evidence including estimated future reversals of existing temporary differences, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies, and recent financial results. Valuation allowances related to these deferred tax assets have been established to the extent the realization of the tax benefit is not likely. To the extent the Company were to favorably resolve matters for which accruals have been established or be required to pay amounts in excess of the aforementioned reserves, the Companys effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be impacted. Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and the Companys share of the undistributed earnings of affiliated corporate joint venture companies accounted for on the equity method amounting to approximately $7.2 billion at June 30, 2012, are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Property, Plant, and Equipment and Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand, changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned factors may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and cash flows of the Companys assets in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its facilities. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment, technology, and companies related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. Assets are written down after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these assets, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. During 2012, 2011, and 2010, impairment charges were $367 million, $2 million, and $9 million, respectively (see Note 19 for additional information on charges taken in 2012). Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets Goodwill and intangible assets deemed to have indefinite lives are not amortized but are subject to annual impairment tests. The Company evaluates goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year or whenever there are indicators that the carrying value of the assets may not be fully recoverable. Definite lived intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives and are reviewed for impairment whenever there are indicators that the carrying value of the assets may not be fully recoverable. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its impairment tests, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Employee Benefit Plans The Company provides substantially all U.S. employees and employees at certain international subsidiaries with pension benefits. Eligible U.S. employees with five or more years of service prior to January 1, 2009 participate in a defined benefit pension plan. Eligible U.S. employees hired on or after January 1, 2009 (and eligible salaried employees with less than five years of service prior to January 1, 2009) participate in a cash balance pension formula. The Company provides eligible U.S. employees who retire under qualifying conditions with access to postretirement health care, at full cost to the retiree (certain employees are grandfathered into subsidized coverage). In order to measure the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans, management makes several estimates and assumptions, including interest rates used to discount certain liabilities, rates of return on assets set aside to fund these plans, rates of compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and anticipated future health care costs. These estimates and assumptions are based on the Companys historical experience combined with managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Management also uses third party actuaries to assist in measuring the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans. If management used different estimates and assumptions regarding these plans, the funded status of the plans could vary significantly, and the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. See Note 17 in Item 8 for additional information. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in: commodity market prices as they relate to the Companys net commodity position, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and prices of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to factors such as changes in weather conditions, crop disease, plantings, government programs and policies, competition, changes in global demand, changes in customer preferences and standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. The Company manages its exposure to adverse price movements of agricultural commodities used for, and produced in, its business operations, by entering into derivative and non derivative contracts which reduce the Companys overall short or long commodity position. Additionally, the Company uses exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the correlation between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contract defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company, from time to time, enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed designated hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold or net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. The Companys commodity position consists of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, related purchase and sales contracts, energy and freight contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts including contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements, net of sales. The fair value of the Companys commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing all of the commodity positions at quoted market prices for the period, where available, or utilizing a close proxy. The Company has established metrics to monitor the amount of market risk exposure, which consist of volumetric limits, and value at risk (VaR) limits. VaR measures the potential loss, at a 95% confidence level, that could be incurred over a one year period. Volumetric limits are monitored daily and VaR calculations and sensitivity analysis are monitored weekly. In addition to measuring the hypothetical loss resulting from an adverse two standard deviation move in market prices (assuming no correlations) over a one year period using VaR, sensitivity analysis is performed measuring the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in market prices. The highest, lowest, and average weekly position for each of the last two years together with the market risk from a hypothetical 10% adverse price change is as follows: 2012 2011 Long/(Short) Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest position $ 1,477 $ 148 $ 2,388 $ 239 Lowest position (383 ) (38 ) 368 37 Average position 546 55 1,644 164 The decline in fair value of the average position for 2012 compared to 2011 was principally the result of the decline in average quantities underlying the weekly commodity position. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) Currencies The Company has consolidated subsidiaries in over 75 countries. For the majority of the Companys subsidiaries located outside the United States, the local currency is the functional currency. To reduce the risks associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, the Company enters into currency exchange contracts to minimize its foreign currency position related to transactions denominated primarily in Euro, British pound, Canadian dollar, and Brazilian real currencies. These currencies represent the major functional or local currencies in which recurring business transactions occur. The Company does not use currency exchange contracts as hedges against amounts permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The currency exchange contracts used are forward contracts, swaps with banks, exchange traded futures contracts, and over the counter options. The changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $7.2 billion at June 30, 2012, and $8.2 billion at June 30, 2011. This decrease is due to the depreciation of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar partially offset by an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The potential loss in fair value, which would principally be recognized in Other Comprehensive Income, resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $722 million and $823 million for 2012 and 2011, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 50 basis points decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2012 2011 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 8,057 $ 9,108 Excess of fair value over carrying value 1,522 842 Market risk 422 333 The decrease in fair value of long term debt in 2012 resulted principally from the reclassification of $1.5 billion in floating rate notes to short term debt partially offset by decreased interest rates. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Analysis of Statements of Earnings Net sales and other operating income by segment are as follows: 2011 2010 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing and Origination $ 16,518 $ 14,411 $ 2,107 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel, and Other 9,476 7,133 2,343 Cocoa and Other 3,652 2,678 974 Asia 262 190 72 Total Oilseeds Processing 29,908 24,412 5,496 Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 3,766 3,264 502 Bioproducts 6,142 4,610 1,532 Total Corn Processing 9,908 7,874 2,034 Agricultural Services Merchandising and Handling 36,852 25,751 11,101 Transportation 222 167 55 Milling and Other 3,676 3,383 293 Total Agricultural Services 40,750 29,301 11,449 Other Financial 110 95 15 Total Other 110 95 15 Total $ 80,676 $ 61,682 $ 18,994 Net sales and other operating income increased $19.0 billion, or 31%, to $80.7 billion. Net sales and other operating income increased $14.2 billion due to higher average selling prices, primarily related to higher underlying commodity costs, and increased $4.8 billion due to increased sales volumes, including sales volumes from acquisitions. Agricultural Services sales increased 39% to $40.8 billion due to higher average selling prices of agricultural commodities and higher global sales volumes. Oilseeds Processing sales increased 23% to $29.9 billion primarily due to higher average selling prices for vegetable oils, soybeans, biodiesel, and protein meal. Corn Processing sales increased 26% to $9.9 billion due to higher average selling prices and increased sales volumes of ethanol and other corn products, in part due to the Companys two new ethanol dry mills coming on line. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Cost of products sold increased 32% to $76.4 billion due to higher costs of agricultural commodities, negative impacts resulting from changes in LIFO inventory valuations, and higher manufacturing costs. Cost of products sold includes charges of $368 million from the effect of increasing agricultural commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuation reserves, compared to credits of $42 million in the prior year caused by decreasing agricultural commodity prices. Manufacturing expenses increased $410 million due primarily to higher processed volumes, including the volumes of the Companys new greenfield operations coming on line, and higher average unit costs for certain chemicals and fuels used in the Companys processing and transportation operations. During the second quarter of fiscal 2011, the Company updated its estimates for service lives of certain of its machinery and equipment assets. This change in estimate resulted in a $133 million decrease in depreciation expense compared to the amount of depreciation expense the Company would have recorded using the previously estimated service lives. Manufacturing expenses included $94 million in fiscal 2011 related to the start up of new plants compared to $110 million in the prior year. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased 15% to $1.6 billion. This increase was due to higher employee related costs and higher administrative expenses. Higher employee related costs principally reflect the increase in number of employees during the year and included higher salaries and wages, higher accruals for performance based compensation and higher benefit expenses. Equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates declined 3% to $542 million. The decline in earnings from the Companys equity investee, Wilmar, was partially offset by higher earnings of the Companys equity investee, Gruma, in part due to a gain on Grumas disposition of certain assets. Interest income increased 8% to $136 million principally resulting from higher interest earned on advances to affiliates. Interest expense increased 14% to $482 million. Interest costs capitalized as a component of major construction projects in progress was $7 million compared to $75 million in the prior year. Interest incurred on long term debt declined $24 million as a result of debt retirements while interest incurred on short term debt increased $15 million due to higher average borrowings driven by higher working capital requirements. Other (income) expense net increased $255 million primarily due to the $71 million gain resulting from the revaluation of the Companys previously held equity interest in Golden Peanut upon acquisition of the remaining 50% interest, gains on interest rate swaps of $30 million compared to a loss of $59 million in the prior year, and a decrease in charges related to early extinguishment of debt from $75 million in the prior year to $15 million in the current year. Income taxes increased $331 million to $997 million due to a higher effective income tax rate and higher pretax earnings. The Companys effective income tax rate increased to 33.1% during 2011 compared to 25.8% in fiscal 2010. The increase in the 2011 rate was primarily due to a geographic mix of earnings that shifted more to the U.S., a higher U.S. effective income tax rate, income tax expense associated with foreign currency re measurement of non monetary assets in Brazil, and adjustments to deferred income tax balances. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Operating profit by segment is as follows: 2011 2010 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing and Origination $ 925 $ 834 $ 91 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel, and Other 342 300 42 Cocoa and Other 240 126 114 Asia 183 291 (108 ) Total Oilseeds Processing 1,690 1,551 139 Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 330 538 (208 ) Bioproducts 749 200 549 Total Corn Processing 1,079 738 341 Agricultural Services Merchandising and Handling 807 562 245 Transportation 117 96 21 Milling and Other 399 344 55 Total Agricultural Services 1,323 1,002 321 Other Financial 39 46 (7 ) Total Other 39 46 (7 ) Total Segment Operating Profit 4,131 3,337 794 Corporate (see below) (1,116 ) (752 ) (364 ) Earnings Before Income Taxes $ 3,015 $ 2,585 $ 430 Corporate results are as follows: 2011 2010 Change (In millions) LIFO credit $ (368 ) $ 42 $ (410 ) Interest expense net (445 ) (381 ) (64 ) Unallocated corporate costs (326 ) (266 ) (60 ) Charges on early extinguishment of debt (8 ) (75 ) 67 Gains (losses) on interest rate swaps 30 (59 ) 89 Other 1 (13 ) 14 Total Corporate $ (1,116 ) $ (752 ) $ (364 ) Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Oilseeds Processing operating profit increased 9% to $1.7 billion. Crushing and Origination results increased $91 million to $925 million. Improved North American crushing results, particularly for cotton seed and canola, were partially offset by lower crushing margins in South America and Europe. Margins globally were enhanced by good positioning and by improved origination results. In South America, fertilizer results improved due to higher margins and volumes. Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel and Other results increased $42 million to $342 million due principally to higher packaged oils margins and improved North American and European biodiesel results. Cocoa and Other results increased $114 million to $240 million primarily due to the $71 million gain on the revaluation of the Companys equity interest in Golden Peanut and higher peanut profits as a result of the December 31, 2010 acquisition of the remaining 50% interest of Golden Peanut. Asia results decreased $108 million due principally to decreased earnings from the Companys equity investee, Wilmar. Corn Processing operating profit increased 46% to $1.1 billion, which includes favorable impacts from ownership positions, which were allocated to sweeteners and starches and bioproducts based on total grind. Sweeteners and Starches operating profit decreased $208 million to $330 million due to higher net corn costs partially offset by higher sales volumes. Sales volumes increased due to U.S. export shipments of sweeteners and improved U.S. demand for industrial starches. Bioproducts operating profit improved $549 million primarily due to higher ethanol sales volumes and higher average selling prices leading to increased ethanol and lysine margins. Bioproducts margins were also enhanced by favorable corn ownership positions. Bioproducts results included startup costs related to the Companys new plants of $94 million in 2011 compared to $107 million in the prior year. Agricultural Services operating profit increased 32% to $1.3 billion. Merchandising and Handling results increased due to higher corn and wheat sales volumes and higher margins. A large 2010 U.S. harvest combined with strong international demand resulted in higher U.S. export shipments. Merchandising and Handling results in 2011 included an insurance recovery of $67 million related to property damage and business interruption resulting from an October 2008 explosion at the Companys Destrehan, LA, export facility. International merchandising results were weaker in part due to positions impacted by unexpected shifts in crop supply caused by weather conditions and government actions in the Black Sea region. Transportation results increased $21 million to $117 million primarily due to higher barge freight rates and higher barge utilization levels, in part due to higher U.S. export volumes. Milling and Other results improved due principally to increased equity earnings from the Companys equity investee, Gruma which include a $78 million gain related to Grumas disposal of certain assets. Other financial operating profit decreased 15% to $39 million primarily due to higher captive insurance loss provisions principally related to a $67 million loss related to the Companys Destrehan, LA, export facility insurance claim. Corporate results decreased $364 million primarily due to the negative impact from changing LIFO inventory valuations and higher interest expense net. The effects of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory reserves resulted in charges of $368 million compared to credits of $42 million for the prior year. Corporate interest expense increased $64 million mostly due to lower capitalization of interest costs for construction projects in progress. Partially offsetting the higher LIFO and interest costs were $30 million of gains on interest rate swaps compared to prior year losses on interest rate swaps of $59 million. In addition, 2010 included charges of $75 million on early debt extinguishment compared to $8 million of similar charges in 2011. Liquidity and Capital Resources A Company objective is to have sufficient liquidity, balance sheet strength, and financial flexibility to fund the operating and capital requirements of a capital intensive agricultural commodity based business. The primary source of funds to finance the Companys operations and capital expenditures is cash generated by operations and lines of credit, including a commercial paper borrowing facility. In addition, the Company believes it has access to funds from public and private equity and debt capital markets in both U.S. and international markets. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Cash provided by operating activities was $2.9 billion for the year compared to cash used in operating activities of $2.3 billion last year. Working capital decreased $0.3 billion since the beginning of fiscal 2012 due principally to the $1.0 billion account receivable securitization program discussed below. In fiscal 2011 working capital increased $5.2 billion due principally to higher agricultural commodity prices. Cash used in investing activities was $1.1 billion for the year compared to a $1.7 billion use last year. Capital expenditures were $1.5 billion for the year compared to $1.2 billion last year. The Company spent approximately $0.2 billion on acquisitions in fiscal 2012 and 2011. Related to the sale of the majority interest in Hickory Point Bank, the Company reduced its holdings of marketable securities generating cash of $0.3 billion and divested cash of $0.1 billion as a result of the deconsolidation. In fiscal 2011, net purchases of marketable securities used $0.3 billion of cash. Cash used in financing activities was $1.1 billion for the year compared to cash provided by financing activities of $3.6 billion last year. In fiscal 2012, the Company returned nearly $1.0 billion to shareholders in the form of dividends and share repurchases, including the acquisition of 18.4 million of its common shares for $0.5 billion. In fiscal 2011 net borrowings increased primarily to fund higher working capital. Short term borrowings increased due principally to higher commercial paper borrowings, and long term borrowings increased primarily as a result of the issuance of $1.5 billion of 18 month floating rate notes in February 2011. In addition the Company issued 44 million shares of common stock and received $1.75 billion in fiscal 2011 under the forward stock purchase component of the Companys Equity Units (see Note 10 in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data). At June 30, 2012, the Company had $1.5 billion of cash, cash equivalents, and short term marketable securities and a current ratio, defined as current assets divided by current liabilities, of 1.8 to 1. Included in working capital is $7.8 billion of readily marketable commodity inventories. At June 30, 2012, the Companys capital resources included net worth of $18.2 billion and lines of credit totaling $6.5 billion, of which $4.4 billion was unused. The Companys ratio of long term debt to total capital (the sum of the Companys long term debt and shareholders equity) was 26% at June 30, 2012 and 30% at June 30, 2011. This ratio is a measure of the Companys long term indebtedness and is an indicator of financial flexibility. Of the Companys total lines of credit, $4.3 billion support a commercial paper borrowing facility, against which there were $1.3 billion of commercial paper outstanding at June 30, 2012. In August 2012, the Company added a $2.0 billion credit facility which will support commercial paper borrowings. On March 27, 2012, the Company entered into an amendment of its accounts receivable securitization program (as amended, the Program) with certain commercial paper conduit purchasers and committed purchasers (collectively, the Purchasers). The Program provides the Company with up to $1.0 billion in funding against accounts receivable transferred into the Program and expands the Companys access to liquidity through efficient use of its balance sheet assets. Under the Program, certain U.S. originated trade accounts receivable are sold to a wholly owned bankruptcy remote entity, ADM Receivables, LLC (ADM Receivables). ADM Receivables in turn transfers such purchased accounts receivable in their entirety to the Purchasers pursuant to a receivables purchase agreement. In exchange for the transfer of the accounts receivable, ADM Receivables receives a cash payment of up to $1.0 billion and an additional amount upon the collection of the accounts receivable (deferred consideration). ADM Receivables uses the cash proceeds from the transfer of receivables to the Purchasers and other consideration to finance the purchase of receivables from the Company and the ADM subsidiaries originating the receivables. The Company acts as master servicer, responsible for servicing and collecting the accounts receivable under the Program. The Program terminates on June 28, 2013 (see Note 20 for more information and disclosures on the Program). As of June 30, 2012, the fair value of trade receivables transferred to the Purchasers under the Program and derecognized from the Companys consolidated balance sheet was $1.6 billion. In exchange for the transfer, the Company received cash of $1.0 billion and recorded a receivable for deferred consideration included in other current assets. The Company has outstanding $1.4 billion principal amount of floating rate notes due on August 13, 2012. Interest on the notes accrues at a floating rate three month LIBOR reset quarterly plus 0.16% and is paid quarterly. As of June 30, 2012, the interest rate on the notes was 0.63%. In August 2012, the Company paid these notes with funds available from short term borrowings. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) The Company has outstanding $1.15 billion principal amount of convertible senior notes. As of June 30, 2012, none of the conditions permitting conversion of these notes had been satisfied. The Company has purchased call options and warrants intended to reduce the potential shareholder dilution upon future conversion of the notes. As of June 30, 2012, the market price of the Companys common stock was not greater than the exercise price of the purchased call options or warrants related to the convertible senior notes. The Company is currently experiencing generally higher prices for agricultural commodities as a result of tightening crop supplies, mostly due to weather impacts on current year U.S. corn and soybean crop production. Higher prices of commodities have historically correlated with increases in the Companys working capital requirements. The Company depends on access to credit markets, which can be impacted by its credit rating and factors outside of the Companys control, such as the European debt situation, to fund its working capital needs and capital expenditures. The Company expects capital expenditures to range from $0.5 billion to $0.6 billion for the upcoming 6 month period ending December 31, 2012. On November 5, 2009, the Companys Board of Directors approved a stock repurchase program authorizing the Company to repurchase up to 100,000,000 shares of the Companys common stock during the period commencing January 1, 2010 and ending December 31, 2014. The Company has acquired approximately 31.6 million shares under this program, resulting in remaining approval to acquire 68.4 million shares. The Companys credit facilities and certain debentures require the Company to comply with specified financial and non financial covenants including maintenance of minimum tangible net worth as well as limitations related to incurring liens, secured debt, and certain other financing arrangements. The Company is in compliance with these covenants as of June 30, 2012. Contractual Obligations In the normal course of business, the Company enters into contracts and commitments which obligate the Company to make payments in the future. The following table sets forth the Companys significant future obligations by time period. Purchases include commodity based contracts entered into in the normal course of business, which are further described in Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, energy related purchase contracts entered into in the normal course of business, and other purchase obligations related to the Companys normal business activities. The following table does not include unrecognized income tax benefits of $80 million as of June 30, 2012 as the Company is unable to reasonably estimate the timing of settlement. Where applicable, information included in the Companys consolidated financial statements and notes is cross referenced in this table. Payments Due by Period Contractual Item 8 Note Less than 1 3 3 5 More than Obligations Reference Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years (In millions) Purchases Inventories $ 17,724 $ 17,307 $ 211 $ 130 $ 76 Energy 866 390 233 87 156 Other 242 145 86 10 1 Total purchases 18,832 17,842 530 227 233 Short term debt 2,108 2,108 Long term debt Note 10 8,212 1,677 1,114 320 5,101 Estimated interest payments 6,688 374 650 636 5,028 Operating leases Note 16 1,135 244 365 263 263 Estimated pension and other postretirement plan contributions (1) Note 17 188 64 23 25 76 Total $ 37,163 $ 22,309 $ 2,682 $ 1,471 $ 10,701 (1) Includes pension contributions of $53 million for fiscal 2013. The Company is unable to estimate the amount of pension contributions beyond fiscal year 2013. For more information concerning the Companys pension and other postretirement plans, see Note 17 in Item 8. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) At June 30, 2012, the Company estimates it will spend approximately $2.1 billion through calendar year 2015 to complete currently approved capital projects which are not included in the table above. The Company also has outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds of $644 million at June 30, 2012. In addition, the Company has entered into agreements, primarily debt guarantee agreements related to equity method investees, which could obligate the Company to make future payments. The Companys liability under these agreements arises only if the primary entity fails to perform its contractual obligation. The Company has collateral for a portion of these contingent obligations. At June 30, 2012, these contingent obligations totaled approximately $30 million. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements On March 27, 2012, the Company entered into an amendment of its accounts receivable securitization program (as amended, the Program) with certain commercial paper conduit purchasers and committed purchasers (collectively, the Purchasers). Under the Program, certain U.S. originated trade accounts receivable are sold to a wholly owned bankruptcy remote entity, ADM Receivables, LLC (ADM Receivables). ADM Receivables in turn transfers such purchased accounts receivable in their entirety to the Purchasers pursuant to a receivables purchase agreement. In exchange for the transfer of the accounts receivable, ADM Receivables receives a cash payment of up to $1.0 billion and an additional amount upon the collection of the accounts receivable (deferred consideration). ADM Receivables uses the cash proceeds from the transfer of receivables to the Purchasers and other consideration to finance the purchase of receivables from the Company and the ADM subsidiaries originating the receivables. The Company accounts for these transfers as sales. The Company has no retained interests in the transferred receivables, other than collection and administrative responsibilities and its right to the deferred consideration. At June 30, 2012, the Company did not record a servicing asset or liability related to its retained responsibility, based on its assessment of the servicing fee, market values for similar transactions and its cost of servicing the receivables sold. The Program terminates on June 28, 2013. As of June 30, 2012, the fair value of trade receivables transferred to the Purchasers under the Program and derecognized from the Companys consolidated balance sheet was $1.6 billion. In exchange for the transfer, the Company received cash of $1.0 billion and recorded a receivable for deferred consideration included in other current assets. Cash collections from customers on receivables sold were $8.9 billion for the four months ended June 30, 2012. Of this amount, $8.9 billion pertains to cash collections on the deferred consideration. Deferred consideration is paid to the Company in cash on behalf of the Purchasers as receivables are collected; however, as this is a revolving facility, cash collected from the Companys customers is reinvested by the Purchasers daily in new receivable purchases under the Program. The Companys risk of loss following the transfer of accounts receivable under the Program is limited to the deferred consideration outstanding, which is classified as other current assets and was $0.6 billion at June 30, 2012. The Company carries the deferred consideration at fair value determined by calculating the expected amount of cash to be received and is principally based on observable inputs (a Level 2 measurement under ASC 820) consisting mainly of the face amount of the receivables adjusted for anticipated credit losses and discounted at the appropriate market rate. Payment of deferred consideration is not subject to significant risks other than delinquencies and credit losses on accounts receivable transferred under the program which have historically been insignificant. Transfers of receivables under the Program during the year ended June 30, 2012 resulted in an expense for the loss on sale of $4 million which is classified as selling, general, and administrative expenses in the consolidated statements of earnings. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Critical Accounting Policies The process of preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the carrying values of the Companys assets and liabilities as well as the recognition of revenues and expenses. These estimates and judgments are based on the Companys historical experience and managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Certain of the Companys accounting policies are considered critical, as these policies are important to the depiction of the Companys financial statements and require significant or complex judgment by management. Management has discussed with the Companys Audit Committee the development, selection, disclosure, and application of these critical accounting policies. Following are the accounting policies management considers critical to the Companys financial statements. Fair Value Measurements Inventories and Derivatives Certain of the Companys assets and liabilities as of June 30, 2012 are valued at estimated fair values, including $6.8 billion of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, $3.1 billion of derivative assets, $3.0 billion of derivative liabilities, and $0.3 billion of inventory related payables. Derivative assets and liabilities include forward fixed price purchase and sale contracts for agricultural commodities, forward foreign exchange contracts, and over the counter instruments such as options contracts. The merchandisable agricultural commodities are freely traded, have quoted market prices, and may be sold without significant additional processing. Management estimates fair value for its commodity related assets and liabilities based on exchange quoted prices, adjusted for differences in local markets. The Companys fair value measurements are mainly based on observable market quotations without significant adjustments and are therefore reported as Level 1 or Level 2 within the fair value hierarchy. Level 3 fair value measurements represent fair value estimates where unobservable price components represent 10% or more of the total fair value price. For more information concerning amounts reported as Level 3, see Note 3 in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Changes in the market values of these inventories and contracts are recognized in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. If management used different methods or factors to estimate market value, amounts reported as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. Additionally, if market conditions change subsequent to year end, amounts reported in future periods as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. Derivatives Designated Hedging Activities The Company, from time to time, uses derivative contracts designated as cash flow hedges to fix the purchase price of anticipated volumes of commodities to be purchased and processed in a future month, to fix the purchase price of the Companys anticipated natural gas requirements for certain production facilities, and to fix the sales price of anticipated volumes of ethanol. These designated hedging programs principally relate to the Companys Corn Processing operating segment. The change in the market value of such derivative contracts has historically been, and is expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold and net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. If it is determined that the derivative instruments used are no longer effective at offsetting changes in the price of the hedged item, then the changes in the market value of these exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts would be recorded immediately in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. See Note 4 in Item 8 for additional information. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Investments in Affiliates The Company applies the equity method of accounting for investments over which the Company has the ability to exercise significant influence, including its 16.4% investment in Wilmar. These investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings and are adjusted, where appropriate, for amortizable basis differences between the investment balance and the underlying net assets of the investee. Generally, the minimum ownership threshold for asserting significant influence is 20% ownership of the investee. However, the Company considers all relevant factors in determining its ability to assert significant influence including but not limited to, ownership percentage, board membership, customer and vendor relationships, and other arrangements. If management used a different accounting method for these investments, then the amount of earnings from affiliates the Company recognizes may differ. Income Taxes The Company frequently faces challenges from U.S. and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company records reserves for estimates of potential additional tax owed by the Company. As an example, a subsidiary of the Company received tax assessments in the amount of $570 million consisting of tax, penalty, and interest (adjusted for interest and variation in currency exchange rates) from the Brazilian Federal Revenue Service challenging the deductibility of commodity hedging losses incurred by the Company for tax years 2004, 2006 and 2007. The Company evaluated its tax position regarding these hedging transactions and concluded, based in part upon advice from Brazilian legal counsel, that it was appropriate to recognize the tax benefits of these deductions (see Note 15 in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for additional information). Deferred tax assets represent items to be used as tax deductions or credits in future tax returns, and the related tax benefit has already been recognized in the Companys income statement. The realization of the Companys deferred tax assets is dependent upon future taxable income in specific tax jurisdictions, the timing and amount of which are uncertain. The Company evaluates all available positive and negative evidence including estimated future reversals of existing temporary differences, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies, and recent financial results. Valuation allowances related to these deferred tax assets have been established to the extent the realization of the tax benefit is not likely. To the extent the Company were to favorably resolve matters for which accruals have been established or be required to pay amounts in excess of the aforementioned reserves, the Companys effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be impacted. Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and the Companys share of the undistributed earnings of affiliated corporate joint venture companies accounted for on the equity method amounting to approximately $7.2 billion at June 30, 2012, are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Property, Plant, and Equipment and Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand, changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned factors may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and cash flows of the Companys assets in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its facilities. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment, technology, and companies related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. Assets are written down after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these assets, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. During 2012, 2011, and 2010, impairment charges were $367 million, $2 million, and $9 million, respectively (see Note 19 for additional information on charges taken in 2012). Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets Goodwill and intangible assets deemed to have indefinite lives are not amortized but are subject to annual impairment tests. The Company evaluates goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year or whenever there are indicators that the carrying value of the assets may not be fully recoverable. Definite lived intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives and are reviewed for impairment whenever there are indicators that the carrying value of the assets may not be fully recoverable. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its impairment tests, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Employee Benefit Plans The Company provides substantially all U.S. employees and employees at certain international subsidiaries with pension benefits. Eligible U.S. employees with five or more years of service prior to January 1, 2009 participate in a defined benefit pension plan. Eligible U.S. employees hired on or after January 1, 2009 (and eligible salaried employees with less than five years of service prior to January 1, 2009) participate in a cash balance pension formula. The Company provides eligible U.S. employees who retire under qualifying conditions with access to postretirement health care, at full cost to the retiree (certain employees are grandfathered into subsidized coverage). In order to measure the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans, management makes several estimates and assumptions, including interest rates used to discount certain liabilities, rates of return on assets set aside to fund these plans, rates of compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and anticipated future health care costs. These estimates and assumptions are based on the Companys historical experience combined with managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Management also uses third party actuaries to assist in measuring the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans. If management used different estimates and assumptions regarding these plans, the funded status of the plans could vary significantly, and the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. See Note 17 in Item 8 for additional information. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in: commodity market prices as they relate to the Companys net commodity position, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and prices of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to factors such as changes in weather conditions, crop disease, plantings, government programs and policies, competition, changes in global demand, changes in customer preferences and standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. The Company manages its exposure to adverse price movements of agricultural commodities used for, and produced in, its business operations, by entering into derivative and non derivative contracts which reduce the Companys overall short or long commodity position. Additionally, the Company uses exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the correlation between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contract defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company, from time to time, enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed designated hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold or net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. The Companys commodity position consists of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, related purchase and sales contracts, energy and freight contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts including contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements, net of sales. The fair value of the Companys commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing all of the commodity positions at quoted market prices for the period, where available, or utilizing a close proxy. The Company has established metrics to monitor the amount of market risk exposure, which consist of volumetric limits, and value at risk (VaR) limits. VaR measures the potential loss, at a 95% confidence level, that could be incurred over a one year period. Volumetric limits are monitored daily and VaR calculations and sensitivity analysis are monitored weekly. In addition to measuring the hypothetical loss resulting from an adverse two standard deviation move in market prices (assuming no correlations) over a one year period using VaR, sensitivity analysis is performed measuring the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in market prices. The highest, lowest, and average weekly position for each of the last two years together with the market risk from a hypothetical 10% adverse price change is as follows: 2012 2011 Long/(Short) Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest position $ 1,477 $ 148 $ 2,388 $ 239 Lowest position (383 ) (38 ) 368 37 Average position 546 55 1,644 164 The decline in fair value of the average position for 2012 compared to 2011 was principally the result of the decline in average quantities underlying the weekly commodity position. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) Currencies The Company has consolidated subsidiaries in over 75 countries. For the majority of the Companys subsidiaries located outside the United States, the local currency is the functional currency. To reduce the risks associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, the Company enters into currency exchange contracts to minimize its foreign currency position related to transactions denominated primarily in Euro, British pound, Canadian dollar, and Brazilian real currencies. These currencies represent the major functional or local currencies in which recurring business transactions occur. The Company does not use currency exchange contracts as hedges against amounts permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The currency exchange contracts used are forward contracts, swaps with banks, exchange traded futures contracts, and over the counter options. The changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $7.2 billion at June 30, 2012, and $8.2 billion at June 30, 2011. This decrease is due to the depreciation of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar partially offset by an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The potential loss in fair value, which would principally be recognized in Other Comprehensive Income, resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $722 million and $823 million for 2012 and 2011, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 50 basis points decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2012 2011 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 8,057 $ 9,108 Excess of fair value over carrying value 1,522 842 Market risk 422 333 The decrease in fair value of long term debt in 2012 resulted principally from the reclassification of $1.5 billion in floating rate notes to short term debt partially offset by decreased interest rates. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Cost of products sold increased 32% to $76.4 billion due to higher costs of agricultural commodities, negative impacts resulting from changes in LIFO inventory valuations, and higher manufacturing costs. Cost of products sold includes charges of $368 million from the effect of increasing agricultural commodity prices on LIFO inventory valuation reserves, compared to credits of $42 million in the prior year caused by decreasing agricultural commodity prices. Manufacturing expenses increased $410 million due primarily to higher processed volumes, including the volumes of the Companys new greenfield operations coming on line, and higher average unit costs for certain chemicals and fuels used in the Companys processing and transportation operations. During the second quarter of fiscal 2011, the Company updated its estimates for service lives of certain of its machinery and equipment assets. This change in estimate resulted in a $133 million decrease in depreciation expense compared to the amount of depreciation expense the Company would have recorded using the previously estimated service lives. Manufacturing expenses included $94 million in fiscal 2011 related to the start up of new plants compared to $110 million in the prior year. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased 15% to $1.6 billion. This increase was due to higher employee related costs and higher administrative expenses. Higher employee related costs principally reflect the increase in number of employees during the year and included higher salaries and wages, higher accruals for performance based compensation and higher benefit expenses. Equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates declined 3% to $542 million. The decline in earnings from the Companys equity investee, Wilmar, was partially offset by higher earnings of the Companys equity investee, Gruma, in part due to a gain on Grumas disposition of certain assets. Interest income increased 8% to $136 million principally resulting from higher interest earned on advances to affiliates. Interest expense increased 14% to $482 million. Interest costs capitalized as a component of major construction projects in progress was $7 million compared to $75 million in the prior year. Interest incurred on long term debt declined $24 million as a result of debt retirements while interest incurred on short term debt increased $15 million due to higher average borrowings driven by higher working capital requirements. Other (income) expense net increased $255 million primarily due to the $71 million gain resulting from the revaluation of the Companys previously held equity interest in Golden Peanut upon acquisition of the remaining 50% interest, gains on interest rate swaps of $30 million compared to a loss of $59 million in the prior year, and a decrease in charges related to early extinguishment of debt from $75 million in the prior year to $15 million in the current year. Income taxes increased $331 million to $997 million due to a higher effective income tax rate and higher pretax earnings. The Companys effective income tax rate increased to 33.1% during 2011 compared to 25.8% in fiscal 2010. The increase in the 2011 rate was primarily due to a geographic mix of earnings that shifted more to the U.S., a higher U.S. effective income tax rate, income tax expense associated with foreign currency re measurement of non monetary assets in Brazil, and adjustments to deferred income tax balances. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Operating profit by segment is as follows: 2011 2010 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing and Origination $ 925 $ 834 $ 91 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel, and Other 342 300 42 Cocoa and Other 240 126 114 Asia 183 291 (108 ) Total Oilseeds Processing 1,690 1,551 139 Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 330 538 (208 ) Bioproducts 749 200 549 Total Corn Processing 1,079 738 341 Agricultural Services Merchandising and Handling 807 562 245 Transportation 117 96 21 Milling and Other 399 344 55 Total Agricultural Services 1,323 1,002 321 Other Financial 39 46 (7 ) Total Other 39 46 (7 ) Total Segment Operating Profit 4,131 3,337 794 Corporate (see below) (1,116 ) (752 ) (364 ) Earnings Before Income Taxes $ 3,015 $ 2,585 $ 430 Corporate results are as follows: 2011 2010 Change (In millions) LIFO credit $ (368 ) $ 42 $ (410 ) Interest expense net (445 ) (381 ) (64 ) Unallocated corporate costs (326 ) (266 ) (60 ) Charges on early extinguishment of debt (8 ) (75 ) 67 Gains (losses) on interest rate swaps 30 (59 ) 89 Other 1 (13 ) 14 Total Corporate $ (1,116 ) $ (752 ) $ (364 ) Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Oilseeds Processing operating profit increased 9% to $1.7 billion. Crushing and Origination results increased $91 million to $925 million. Improved North American crushing results, particularly for cotton seed and canola, were partially offset by lower crushing margins in South America and Europe. Margins globally were enhanced by good positioning and by improved origination results. In South America, fertilizer results improved due to higher margins and volumes. Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel and Other results increased $42 million to $342 million due principally to higher packaged oils margins and improved North American and European biodiesel results. Cocoa and Other results increased $114 million to $240 million primarily due to the $71 million gain on the revaluation of the Companys equity interest in Golden Peanut and higher peanut profits as a result of the December 31, 2010 acquisition of the remaining 50% interest of Golden Peanut. Asia results decreased $108 million due principally to decreased earnings from the Companys equity investee, Wilmar. Corn Processing operating profit increased 46% to $1.1 billion, which includes favorable impacts from ownership positions, which were allocated to sweeteners and starches and bioproducts based on total grind. Sweeteners and Starches operating profit decreased $208 million to $330 million due to higher net corn costs partially offset by higher sales volumes. Sales volumes increased due to U.S. export shipments of sweeteners and improved U.S. demand for industrial starches. Bioproducts operating profit improved $549 million primarily due to higher ethanol sales volumes and higher average selling prices leading to increased ethanol and lysine margins. Bioproducts margins were also enhanced by favorable corn ownership positions. Bioproducts results included startup costs related to the Companys new plants of $94 million in 2011 compared to $107 million in the prior year. Agricultural Services operating profit increased 32% to $1.3 billion. Merchandising and Handling results increased due to higher corn and wheat sales volumes and higher margins. A large 2010 U.S. harvest combined with strong international demand resulted in higher U.S. export shipments. Merchandising and Handling results in 2011 included an insurance recovery of $67 million related to property damage and business interruption resulting from an October 2008 explosion at the Companys Destrehan, LA, export facility. International merchandising results were weaker in part due to positions impacted by unexpected shifts in crop supply caused by weather conditions and government actions in the Black Sea region. Transportation results increased $21 million to $117 million primarily due to higher barge freight rates and higher barge utilization levels, in part due to higher U.S. export volumes. Milling and Other results improved due principally to increased equity earnings from the Companys equity investee, Gruma which include a $78 million gain related to Grumas disposal of certain assets. Other financial operating profit decreased 15% to $39 million primarily due to higher captive insurance loss provisions principally related to a $67 million loss related to the Companys Destrehan, LA, export facility insurance claim. Corporate results decreased $364 million primarily due to the negative impact from changing LIFO inventory valuations and higher interest expense net. The effects of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory reserves resulted in charges of $368 million compared to credits of $42 million for the prior year. Corporate interest expense increased $64 million mostly due to lower capitalization of interest costs for construction projects in progress. Partially offsetting the higher LIFO and interest costs were $30 million of gains on interest rate swaps compared to prior year losses on interest rate swaps of $59 million. In addition, 2010 included charges of $75 million on early debt extinguishment compared to $8 million of similar charges in 2011. Liquidity and Capital Resources A Company objective is to have sufficient liquidity, balance sheet strength, and financial flexibility to fund the operating and capital requirements of a capital intensive agricultural commodity based business. The primary source of funds to finance the Companys operations and capital expenditures is cash generated by operations and lines of credit, including a commercial paper borrowing facility. In addition, the Company believes it has access to funds from public and private equity and debt capital markets in both U.S. and international markets. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Cash provided by operating activities was $2.9 billion for the year compared to cash used in operating activities of $2.3 billion last year. Working capital decreased $0.3 billion since the beginning of fiscal 2012 due principally to the $1.0 billion account receivable securitization program discussed below. In fiscal 2011 working capital increased $5.2 billion due principally to higher agricultural commodity prices. Cash used in investing activities was $1.1 billion for the year compared to a $1.7 billion use last year. Capital expenditures were $1.5 billion for the year compared to $1.2 billion last year. The Company spent approximately $0.2 billion on acquisitions in fiscal 2012 and 2011. Related to the sale of the majority interest in Hickory Point Bank, the Company reduced its holdings of marketable securities generating cash of $0.3 billion and divested cash of $0.1 billion as a result of the deconsolidation. In fiscal 2011, net purchases of marketable securities used $0.3 billion of cash. Cash used in financing activities was $1.1 billion for the year compared to cash provided by financing activities of $3.6 billion last year. In fiscal 2012, the Company returned nearly $1.0 billion to shareholders in the form of dividends and share repurchases, including the acquisition of 18.4 million of its common shares for $0.5 billion. In fiscal 2011 net borrowings increased primarily to fund higher working capital. Short term borrowings increased due principally to higher commercial paper borrowings, and long term borrowings increased primarily as a result of the issuance of $1.5 billion of 18 month floating rate notes in February 2011. In addition the Company issued 44 million shares of common stock and received $1.75 billion in fiscal 2011 under the forward stock purchase component of the Companys Equity Units (see Note 10 in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data). At June 30, 2012, the Company had $1.5 billion of cash, cash equivalents, and short term marketable securities and a current ratio, defined as current assets divided by current liabilities, of 1.8 to 1. Included in working capital is $7.8 billion of readily marketable commodity inventories. At June 30, 2012, the Companys capital resources included net worth of $18.2 billion and lines of credit totaling $6.5 billion, of which $4.4 billion was unused. The Companys ratio of long term debt to total capital (the sum of the Companys long term debt and shareholders equity) was 26% at June 30, 2012 and 30% at June 30, 2011. This ratio is a measure of the Companys long term indebtedness and is an indicator of financial flexibility. Of the Companys total lines of credit, $4.3 billion support a commercial paper borrowing facility, against which there were $1.3 billion of commercial paper outstanding at June 30, 2012. In August 2012, the Company added a $2.0 billion credit facility which will support commercial paper borrowings. On March 27, 2012, the Company entered into an amendment of its accounts receivable securitization program (as amended, the Program) with certain commercial paper conduit purchasers and committed purchasers (collectively, the Purchasers). The Program provides the Company with up to $1.0 billion in funding against accounts receivable transferred into the Program and expands the Companys access to liquidity through efficient use of its balance sheet assets. Under the Program, certain U.S. originated trade accounts receivable are sold to a wholly owned bankruptcy remote entity, ADM Receivables, LLC (ADM Receivables). ADM Receivables in turn transfers such purchased accounts receivable in their entirety to the Purchasers pursuant to a receivables purchase agreement. In exchange for the transfer of the accounts receivable, ADM Receivables receives a cash payment of up to $1.0 billion and an additional amount upon the collection of the accounts receivable (deferred consideration). ADM Receivables uses the cash proceeds from the transfer of receivables to the Purchasers and other consideration to finance the purchase of receivables from the Company and the ADM subsidiaries originating the receivables. The Company acts as master servicer, responsible for servicing and collecting the accounts receivable under the Program. The Program terminates on June 28, 2013 (see Note 20 for more information and disclosures on the Program). As of June 30, 2012, the fair value of trade receivables transferred to the Purchasers under the Program and derecognized from the Companys consolidated balance sheet was $1.6 billion. In exchange for the transfer, the Company received cash of $1.0 billion and recorded a receivable for deferred consideration included in other current assets. The Company has outstanding $1.4 billion principal amount of floating rate notes due on August 13, 2012. Interest on the notes accrues at a floating rate three month LIBOR reset quarterly plus 0.16% and is paid quarterly. As of June 30, 2012, the interest rate on the notes was 0.63%. In August 2012, the Company paid these notes with funds available from short term borrowings. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) The Company has outstanding $1.15 billion principal amount of convertible senior notes. As of June 30, 2012, none of the conditions permitting conversion of these notes had been satisfied. The Company has purchased call options and warrants intended to reduce the potential shareholder dilution upon future conversion of the notes. As of June 30, 2012, the market price of the Companys common stock was not greater than the exercise price of the purchased call options or warrants related to the convertible senior notes. The Company is currently experiencing generally higher prices for agricultural commodities as a result of tightening crop supplies, mostly due to weather impacts on current year U.S. corn and soybean crop production. Higher prices of commodities have historically correlated with increases in the Companys working capital requirements. The Company depends on access to credit markets, which can be impacted by its credit rating and factors outside of the Companys control, such as the European debt situation, to fund its working capital needs and capital expenditures. The Company expects capital expenditures to range from $0.5 billion to $0.6 billion for the upcoming 6 month period ending December 31, 2012. On November 5, 2009, the Companys Board of Directors approved a stock repurchase program authorizing the Company to repurchase up to 100,000,000 shares of the Companys common stock during the period commencing January 1, 2010 and ending December 31, 2014. The Company has acquired approximately 31.6 million shares under this program, resulting in remaining approval to acquire 68.4 million shares. The Companys credit facilities and certain debentures require the Company to comply with specified financial and non financial covenants including maintenance of minimum tangible net worth as well as limitations related to incurring liens, secured debt, and certain other financing arrangements. The Company is in compliance with these covenants as of June 30, 2012. Contractual Obligations In the normal course of business, the Company enters into contracts and commitments which obligate the Company to make payments in the future. The following table sets forth the Companys significant future obligations by time period. Purchases include commodity based contracts entered into in the normal course of business, which are further described in Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, energy related purchase contracts entered into in the normal course of business, and other purchase obligations related to the Companys normal business activities. The following table does not include unrecognized income tax benefits of $80 million as of June 30, 2012 as the Company is unable to reasonably estimate the timing of settlement. Where applicable, information included in the Companys consolidated financial statements and notes is cross referenced in this table. Payments Due by Period Contractual Item 8 Note Less than 1 3 3 5 More than Obligations Reference Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years (In millions) Purchases Inventories $ 17,724 $ 17,307 $ 211 $ 130 $ 76 Energy 866 390 233 87 156 Other 242 145 86 10 1 Total purchases 18,832 17,842 530 227 233 Short term debt 2,108 2,108 Long term debt Note 10 8,212 1,677 1,114 320 5,101 Estimated interest payments 6,688 374 650 636 5,028 Operating leases Note 16 1,135 244 365 263 263 Estimated pension and other postretirement plan contributions (1) Note 17 188 64 23 25 76 Total $ 37,163 $ 22,309 $ 2,682 $ 1,471 $ 10,701 (1) Includes pension contributions of $53 million for fiscal 2013. The Company is unable to estimate the amount of pension contributions beyond fiscal year 2013. For more information concerning the Companys pension and other postretirement plans, see Note 17 in Item 8. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) At June 30, 2012, the Company estimates it will spend approximately $2.1 billion through calendar year 2015 to complete currently approved capital projects which are not included in the table above. The Company also has outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds of $644 million at June 30, 2012. In addition, the Company has entered into agreements, primarily debt guarantee agreements related to equity method investees, which could obligate the Company to make future payments. The Companys liability under these agreements arises only if the primary entity fails to perform its contractual obligation. The Company has collateral for a portion of these contingent obligations. At June 30, 2012, these contingent obligations totaled approximately $30 million. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements On March 27, 2012, the Company entered into an amendment of its accounts receivable securitization program (as amended, the Program) with certain commercial paper conduit purchasers and committed purchasers (collectively, the Purchasers). Under the Program, certain U.S. originated trade accounts receivable are sold to a wholly owned bankruptcy remote entity, ADM Receivables, LLC (ADM Receivables). ADM Receivables in turn transfers such purchased accounts receivable in their entirety to the Purchasers pursuant to a receivables purchase agreement. In exchange for the transfer of the accounts receivable, ADM Receivables receives a cash payment of up to $1.0 billion and an additional amount upon the collection of the accounts receivable (deferred consideration). ADM Receivables uses the cash proceeds from the transfer of receivables to the Purchasers and other consideration to finance the purchase of receivables from the Company and the ADM subsidiaries originating the receivables. The Company accounts for these transfers as sales. The Company has no retained interests in the transferred receivables, other than collection and administrative responsibilities and its right to the deferred consideration. At June 30, 2012, the Company did not record a servicing asset or liability related to its retained responsibility, based on its assessment of the servicing fee, market values for similar transactions and its cost of servicing the receivables sold. The Program terminates on June 28, 2013. As of June 30, 2012, the fair value of trade receivables transferred to the Purchasers under the Program and derecognized from the Companys consolidated balance sheet was $1.6 billion. In exchange for the transfer, the Company received cash of $1.0 billion and recorded a receivable for deferred consideration included in other current assets. Cash collections from customers on receivables sold were $8.9 billion for the four months ended June 30, 2012. Of this amount, $8.9 billion pertains to cash collections on the deferred consideration. Deferred consideration is paid to the Company in cash on behalf of the Purchasers as receivables are collected; however, as this is a revolving facility, cash collected from the Companys customers is reinvested by the Purchasers daily in new receivable purchases under the Program. The Companys risk of loss following the transfer of accounts receivable under the Program is limited to the deferred consideration outstanding, which is classified as other current assets and was $0.6 billion at June 30, 2012. The Company carries the deferred consideration at fair value determined by calculating the expected amount of cash to be received and is principally based on observable inputs (a Level 2 measurement under ASC 820) consisting mainly of the face amount of the receivables adjusted for anticipated credit losses and discounted at the appropriate market rate. Payment of deferred consideration is not subject to significant risks other than delinquencies and credit losses on accounts receivable transferred under the program which have historically been insignificant. Transfers of receivables under the Program during the year ended June 30, 2012 resulted in an expense for the loss on sale of $4 million which is classified as selling, general, and administrative expenses in the consolidated statements of earnings. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Critical Accounting Policies The process of preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the carrying values of the Companys assets and liabilities as well as the recognition of revenues and expenses. These estimates and judgments are based on the Companys historical experience and managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Certain of the Companys accounting policies are considered critical, as these policies are important to the depiction of the Companys financial statements and require significant or complex judgment by management. Management has discussed with the Companys Audit Committee the development, selection, disclosure, and application of these critical accounting policies. Following are the accounting policies management considers critical to the Companys financial statements. Fair Value Measurements Inventories and Derivatives Certain of the Companys assets and liabilities as of June 30, 2012 are valued at estimated fair values, including $6.8 billion of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, $3.1 billion of derivative assets, $3.0 billion of derivative liabilities, and $0.3 billion of inventory related payables. Derivative assets and liabilities include forward fixed price purchase and sale contracts for agricultural commodities, forward foreign exchange contracts, and over the counter instruments such as options contracts. The merchandisable agricultural commodities are freely traded, have quoted market prices, and may be sold without significant additional processing. Management estimates fair value for its commodity related assets and liabilities based on exchange quoted prices, adjusted for differences in local markets. The Companys fair value measurements are mainly based on observable market quotations without significant adjustments and are therefore reported as Level 1 or Level 2 within the fair value hierarchy. Level 3 fair value measurements represent fair value estimates where unobservable price components represent 10% or more of the total fair value price. For more information concerning amounts reported as Level 3, see Note 3 in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Changes in the market values of these inventories and contracts are recognized in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. If management used different methods or factors to estimate market value, amounts reported as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. Additionally, if market conditions change subsequent to year end, amounts reported in future periods as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. Derivatives Designated Hedging Activities The Company, from time to time, uses derivative contracts designated as cash flow hedges to fix the purchase price of anticipated volumes of commodities to be purchased and processed in a future month, to fix the purchase price of the Companys anticipated natural gas requirements for certain production facilities, and to fix the sales price of anticipated volumes of ethanol. These designated hedging programs principally relate to the Companys Corn Processing operating segment. The change in the market value of such derivative contracts has historically been, and is expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold and net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. If it is determined that the derivative instruments used are no longer effective at offsetting changes in the price of the hedged item, then the changes in the market value of these exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts would be recorded immediately in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. See Note 4 in Item 8 for additional information. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Investments in Affiliates The Company applies the equity method of accounting for investments over which the Company has the ability to exercise significant influence, including its 16.4% investment in Wilmar. These investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings and are adjusted, where appropriate, for amortizable basis differences between the investment balance and the underlying net assets of the investee. Generally, the minimum ownership threshold for asserting significant influence is 20% ownership of the investee. However, the Company considers all relevant factors in determining its ability to assert significant influence including but not limited to, ownership percentage, board membership, customer and vendor relationships, and other arrangements. If management used a different accounting method for these investments, then the amount of earnings from affiliates the Company recognizes may differ. Income Taxes The Company frequently faces challenges from U.S. and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company records reserves for estimates of potential additional tax owed by the Company. As an example, a subsidiary of the Company received tax assessments in the amount of $570 million consisting of tax, penalty, and interest (adjusted for interest and variation in currency exchange rates) from the Brazilian Federal Revenue Service challenging the deductibility of commodity hedging losses incurred by the Company for tax years 2004, 2006 and 2007. The Company evaluated its tax position regarding these hedging transactions and concluded, based in part upon advice from Brazilian legal counsel, that it was appropriate to recognize the tax benefits of these deductions (see Note 15 in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for additional information). Deferred tax assets represent items to be used as tax deductions or credits in future tax returns, and the related tax benefit has already been recognized in the Companys income statement. The realization of the Companys deferred tax assets is dependent upon future taxable income in specific tax jurisdictions, the timing and amount of which are uncertain. The Company evaluates all available positive and negative evidence including estimated future reversals of existing temporary differences, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies, and recent financial results. Valuation allowances related to these deferred tax assets have been established to the extent the realization of the tax benefit is not likely. To the extent the Company were to favorably resolve matters for which accruals have been established or be required to pay amounts in excess of the aforementioned reserves, the Companys effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be impacted. Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and the Companys share of the undistributed earnings of affiliated corporate joint venture companies accounted for on the equity method amounting to approximately $7.2 billion at June 30, 2012, are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Property, Plant, and Equipment and Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand, changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned factors may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and cash flows of the Companys assets in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its facilities. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment, technology, and companies related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. Assets are written down after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these assets, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. During 2012, 2011, and 2010, impairment charges were $367 million, $2 million, and $9 million, respectively (see Note 19 for additional information on charges taken in 2012). Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets Goodwill and intangible assets deemed to have indefinite lives are not amortized but are subject to annual impairment tests. The Company evaluates goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year or whenever there are indicators that the carrying value of the assets may not be fully recoverable. Definite lived intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives and are reviewed for impairment whenever there are indicators that the carrying value of the assets may not be fully recoverable. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its impairment tests, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Employee Benefit Plans The Company provides substantially all U.S. employees and employees at certain international subsidiaries with pension benefits. Eligible U.S. employees with five or more years of service prior to January 1, 2009 participate in a defined benefit pension plan. Eligible U.S. employees hired on or after January 1, 2009 (and eligible salaried employees with less than five years of service prior to January 1, 2009) participate in a cash balance pension formula. The Company provides eligible U.S. employees who retire under qualifying conditions with access to postretirement health care, at full cost to the retiree (certain employees are grandfathered into subsidized coverage). In order to measure the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans, management makes several estimates and assumptions, including interest rates used to discount certain liabilities, rates of return on assets set aside to fund these plans, rates of compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and anticipated future health care costs. These estimates and assumptions are based on the Companys historical experience combined with managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Management also uses third party actuaries to assist in measuring the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans. If management used different estimates and assumptions regarding these plans, the funded status of the plans could vary significantly, and the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. See Note 17 in Item 8 for additional information. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in: commodity market prices as they relate to the Companys net commodity position, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and prices of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to factors such as changes in weather conditions, crop disease, plantings, government programs and policies, competition, changes in global demand, changes in customer preferences and standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. The Company manages its exposure to adverse price movements of agricultural commodities used for, and produced in, its business operations, by entering into derivative and non derivative contracts which reduce the Companys overall short or long commodity position. Additionally, the Company uses exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the correlation between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contract defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company, from time to time, enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed designated hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold or net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. The Companys commodity position consists of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, related purchase and sales contracts, energy and freight contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts including contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements, net of sales. The fair value of the Companys commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing all of the commodity positions at quoted market prices for the period, where available, or utilizing a close proxy. The Company has established metrics to monitor the amount of market risk exposure, which consist of volumetric limits, and value at risk (VaR) limits. VaR measures the potential loss, at a 95% confidence level, that could be incurred over a one year period. Volumetric limits are monitored daily and VaR calculations and sensitivity analysis are monitored weekly. In addition to measuring the hypothetical loss resulting from an adverse two standard deviation move in market prices (assuming no correlations) over a one year period using VaR, sensitivity analysis is performed measuring the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in market prices. The highest, lowest, and average weekly position for each of the last two years together with the market risk from a hypothetical 10% adverse price change is as follows: 2012 2011 Long/(Short) Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest position $ 1,477 $ 148 $ 2,388 $ 239 Lowest position (383 ) (38 ) 368 37 Average position 546 55 1,644 164 The decline in fair value of the average position for 2012 compared to 2011 was principally the result of the decline in average quantities underlying the weekly commodity position. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) Currencies The Company has consolidated subsidiaries in over 75 countries. For the majority of the Companys subsidiaries located outside the United States, the local currency is the functional currency. To reduce the risks associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, the Company enters into currency exchange contracts to minimize its foreign currency position related to transactions denominated primarily in Euro, British pound, Canadian dollar, and Brazilian real currencies. These currencies represent the major functional or local currencies in which recurring business transactions occur. The Company does not use currency exchange contracts as hedges against amounts permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The currency exchange contracts used are forward contracts, swaps with banks, exchange traded futures contracts, and over the counter options. The changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $7.2 billion at June 30, 2012, and $8.2 billion at June 30, 2011. This decrease is due to the depreciation of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar partially offset by an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The potential loss in fair value, which would principally be recognized in Other Comprehensive Income, resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $722 million and $823 million for 2012 and 2011, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 50 basis points decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2012 2011 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 8,057 $ 9,108 Excess of fair value over carrying value 1,522 842 Market risk 422 333 The decrease in fair value of long term debt in 2012 resulted principally from the reclassification of $1.5 billion in floating rate notes to short term debt partially offset by decreased interest rates. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Operating profit by segment is as follows: 2011 2010 Change (In millions) Oilseeds Processing Crushing and Origination $ 925 $ 834 $ 91 Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel, and Other 342 300 42 Cocoa and Other 240 126 114 Asia 183 291 (108 ) Total Oilseeds Processing 1,690 1,551 139 Corn Processing Sweeteners and Starches 330 538 (208 ) Bioproducts 749 200 549 Total Corn Processing 1,079 738 341 Agricultural Services Merchandising and Handling 807 562 245 Transportation 117 96 21 Milling and Other 399 344 55 Total Agricultural Services 1,323 1,002 321 Other Financial 39 46 (7 ) Total Other 39 46 (7 ) Total Segment Operating Profit 4,131 3,337 794 Corporate (see below) (1,116 ) (752 ) (364 ) Earnings Before Income Taxes $ 3,015 $ 2,585 $ 430 Corporate results are as follows: 2011 2010 Change (In millions) LIFO credit $ (368 ) $ 42 $ (410 ) Interest expense net (445 ) (381 ) (64 ) Unallocated corporate costs (326 ) (266 ) (60 ) Charges on early extinguishment of debt (8 ) (75 ) 67 Gains (losses) on interest rate swaps 30 (59 ) 89 Other 1 (13 ) 14 Total Corporate $ (1,116 ) $ (752 ) $ (364 ) Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Oilseeds Processing operating profit increased 9% to $1.7 billion. Crushing and Origination results increased $91 million to $925 million. Improved North American crushing results, particularly for cotton seed and canola, were partially offset by lower crushing margins in South America and Europe. Margins globally were enhanced by good positioning and by improved origination results. In South America, fertilizer results improved due to higher margins and volumes. Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel and Other results increased $42 million to $342 million due principally to higher packaged oils margins and improved North American and European biodiesel results. Cocoa and Other results increased $114 million to $240 million primarily due to the $71 million gain on the revaluation of the Companys equity interest in Golden Peanut and higher peanut profits as a result of the December 31, 2010 acquisition of the remaining 50% interest of Golden Peanut. Asia results decreased $108 million due principally to decreased earnings from the Companys equity investee, Wilmar. Corn Processing operating profit increased 46% to $1.1 billion, which includes favorable impacts from ownership positions, which were allocated to sweeteners and starches and bioproducts based on total grind. Sweeteners and Starches operating profit decreased $208 million to $330 million due to higher net corn costs partially offset by higher sales volumes. Sales volumes increased due to U.S. export shipments of sweeteners and improved U.S. demand for industrial starches. Bioproducts operating profit improved $549 million primarily due to higher ethanol sales volumes and higher average selling prices leading to increased ethanol and lysine margins. Bioproducts margins were also enhanced by favorable corn ownership positions. Bioproducts results included startup costs related to the Companys new plants of $94 million in 2011 compared to $107 million in the prior year. Agricultural Services operating profit increased 32% to $1.3 billion. Merchandising and Handling results increased due to higher corn and wheat sales volumes and higher margins. A large 2010 U.S. harvest combined with strong international demand resulted in higher U.S. export shipments. Merchandising and Handling results in 2011 included an insurance recovery of $67 million related to property damage and business interruption resulting from an October 2008 explosion at the Companys Destrehan, LA, export facility. International merchandising results were weaker in part due to positions impacted by unexpected shifts in crop supply caused by weather conditions and government actions in the Black Sea region. Transportation results increased $21 million to $117 million primarily due to higher barge freight rates and higher barge utilization levels, in part due to higher U.S. export volumes. Milling and Other results improved due principally to increased equity earnings from the Companys equity investee, Gruma which include a $78 million gain related to Grumas disposal of certain assets. Other financial operating profit decreased 15% to $39 million primarily due to higher captive insurance loss provisions principally related to a $67 million loss related to the Companys Destrehan, LA, export facility insurance claim. Corporate results decreased $364 million primarily due to the negative impact from changing LIFO inventory valuations and higher interest expense net. The effects of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory reserves resulted in charges of $368 million compared to credits of $42 million for the prior year. Corporate interest expense increased $64 million mostly due to lower capitalization of interest costs for construction projects in progress. Partially offsetting the higher LIFO and interest costs were $30 million of gains on interest rate swaps compared to prior year losses on interest rate swaps of $59 million. In addition, 2010 included charges of $75 million on early debt extinguishment compared to $8 million of similar charges in 2011. Liquidity and Capital Resources A Company objective is to have sufficient liquidity, balance sheet strength, and financial flexibility to fund the operating and capital requirements of a capital intensive agricultural commodity based business. The primary source of funds to finance the Companys operations and capital expenditures is cash generated by operations and lines of credit, including a commercial paper borrowing facility. In addition, the Company believes it has access to funds from public and private equity and debt capital markets in both U.S. and international markets. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Cash provided by operating activities was $2.9 billion for the year compared to cash used in operating activities of $2.3 billion last year. Working capital decreased $0.3 billion since the beginning of fiscal 2012 due principally to the $1.0 billion account receivable securitization program discussed below. In fiscal 2011 working capital increased $5.2 billion due principally to higher agricultural commodity prices. Cash used in investing activities was $1.1 billion for the year compared to a $1.7 billion use last year. Capital expenditures were $1.5 billion for the year compared to $1.2 billion last year. The Company spent approximately $0.2 billion on acquisitions in fiscal 2012 and 2011. Related to the sale of the majority interest in Hickory Point Bank, the Company reduced its holdings of marketable securities generating cash of $0.3 billion and divested cash of $0.1 billion as a result of the deconsolidation. In fiscal 2011, net purchases of marketable securities used $0.3 billion of cash. Cash used in financing activities was $1.1 billion for the year compared to cash provided by financing activities of $3.6 billion last year. In fiscal 2012, the Company returned nearly $1.0 billion to shareholders in the form of dividends and share repurchases, including the acquisition of 18.4 million of its common shares for $0.5 billion. In fiscal 2011 net borrowings increased primarily to fund higher working capital. Short term borrowings increased due principally to higher commercial paper borrowings, and long term borrowings increased primarily as a result of the issuance of $1.5 billion of 18 month floating rate notes in February 2011. In addition the Company issued 44 million shares of common stock and received $1.75 billion in fiscal 2011 under the forward stock purchase component of the Companys Equity Units (see Note 10 in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data). At June 30, 2012, the Company had $1.5 billion of cash, cash equivalents, and short term marketable securities and a current ratio, defined as current assets divided by current liabilities, of 1.8 to 1. Included in working capital is $7.8 billion of readily marketable commodity inventories. At June 30, 2012, the Companys capital resources included net worth of $18.2 billion and lines of credit totaling $6.5 billion, of which $4.4 billion was unused. The Companys ratio of long term debt to total capital (the sum of the Companys long term debt and shareholders equity) was 26% at June 30, 2012 and 30% at June 30, 2011. This ratio is a measure of the Companys long term indebtedness and is an indicator of financial flexibility. Of the Companys total lines of credit, $4.3 billion support a commercial paper borrowing facility, against which there were $1.3 billion of commercial paper outstanding at June 30, 2012. In August 2012, the Company added a $2.0 billion credit facility which will support commercial paper borrowings. On March 27, 2012, the Company entered into an amendment of its accounts receivable securitization program (as amended, the Program) with certain commercial paper conduit purchasers and committed purchasers (collectively, the Purchasers). The Program provides the Company with up to $1.0 billion in funding against accounts receivable transferred into the Program and expands the Companys access to liquidity through efficient use of its balance sheet assets. Under the Program, certain U.S. originated trade accounts receivable are sold to a wholly owned bankruptcy remote entity, ADM Receivables, LLC (ADM Receivables). ADM Receivables in turn transfers such purchased accounts receivable in their entirety to the Purchasers pursuant to a receivables purchase agreement. In exchange for the transfer of the accounts receivable, ADM Receivables receives a cash payment of up to $1.0 billion and an additional amount upon the collection of the accounts receivable (deferred consideration). ADM Receivables uses the cash proceeds from the transfer of receivables to the Purchasers and other consideration to finance the purchase of receivables from the Company and the ADM subsidiaries originating the receivables. The Company acts as master servicer, responsible for servicing and collecting the accounts receivable under the Program. The Program terminates on June 28, 2013 (see Note 20 for more information and disclosures on the Program). As of June 30, 2012, the fair value of trade receivables transferred to the Purchasers under the Program and derecognized from the Companys consolidated balance sheet was $1.6 billion. In exchange for the transfer, the Company received cash of $1.0 billion and recorded a receivable for deferred consideration included in other current assets. The Company has outstanding $1.4 billion principal amount of floating rate notes due on August 13, 2012. Interest on the notes accrues at a floating rate three month LIBOR reset quarterly plus 0.16% and is paid quarterly. As of June 30, 2012, the interest rate on the notes was 0.63%. In August 2012, the Company paid these notes with funds available from short term borrowings. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) The Company has outstanding $1.15 billion principal amount of convertible senior notes. As of June 30, 2012, none of the conditions permitting conversion of these notes had been satisfied. The Company has purchased call options and warrants intended to reduce the potential shareholder dilution upon future conversion of the notes. As of June 30, 2012, the market price of the Companys common stock was not greater than the exercise price of the purchased call options or warrants related to the convertible senior notes. The Company is currently experiencing generally higher prices for agricultural commodities as a result of tightening crop supplies, mostly due to weather impacts on current year U.S. corn and soybean crop production. Higher prices of commodities have historically correlated with increases in the Companys working capital requirements. The Company depends on access to credit markets, which can be impacted by its credit rating and factors outside of the Companys control, such as the European debt situation, to fund its working capital needs and capital expenditures. The Company expects capital expenditures to range from $0.5 billion to $0.6 billion for the upcoming 6 month period ending December 31, 2012. On November 5, 2009, the Companys Board of Directors approved a stock repurchase program authorizing the Company to repurchase up to 100,000,000 shares of the Companys common stock during the period commencing January 1, 2010 and ending December 31, 2014. The Company has acquired approximately 31.6 million shares under this program, resulting in remaining approval to acquire 68.4 million shares. The Companys credit facilities and certain debentures require the Company to comply with specified financial and non financial covenants including maintenance of minimum tangible net worth as well as limitations related to incurring liens, secured debt, and certain other financing arrangements. The Company is in compliance with these covenants as of June 30, 2012. Contractual Obligations In the normal course of business, the Company enters into contracts and commitments which obligate the Company to make payments in the future. The following table sets forth the Companys significant future obligations by time period. Purchases include commodity based contracts entered into in the normal course of business, which are further described in Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, energy related purchase contracts entered into in the normal course of business, and other purchase obligations related to the Companys normal business activities. The following table does not include unrecognized income tax benefits of $80 million as of June 30, 2012 as the Company is unable to reasonably estimate the timing of settlement. Where applicable, information included in the Companys consolidated financial statements and notes is cross referenced in this table. Payments Due by Period Contractual Item 8 Note Less than 1 3 3 5 More than Obligations Reference Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years (In millions) Purchases Inventories $ 17,724 $ 17,307 $ 211 $ 130 $ 76 Energy 866 390 233 87 156 Other 242 145 86 10 1 Total purchases 18,832 17,842 530 227 233 Short term debt 2,108 2,108 Long term debt Note 10 8,212 1,677 1,114 320 5,101 Estimated interest payments 6,688 374 650 636 5,028 Operating leases Note 16 1,135 244 365 263 263 Estimated pension and other postretirement plan contributions (1) Note 17 188 64 23 25 76 Total $ 37,163 $ 22,309 $ 2,682 $ 1,471 $ 10,701 (1) Includes pension contributions of $53 million for fiscal 2013. The Company is unable to estimate the amount of pension contributions beyond fiscal year 2013. For more information concerning the Companys pension and other postretirement plans, see Note 17 in Item 8. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) At June 30, 2012, the Company estimates it will spend approximately $2.1 billion through calendar year 2015 to complete currently approved capital projects which are not included in the table above. The Company also has outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds of $644 million at June 30, 2012. In addition, the Company has entered into agreements, primarily debt guarantee agreements related to equity method investees, which could obligate the Company to make future payments. The Companys liability under these agreements arises only if the primary entity fails to perform its contractual obligation. The Company has collateral for a portion of these contingent obligations. At June 30, 2012, these contingent obligations totaled approximately $30 million. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements On March 27, 2012, the Company entered into an amendment of its accounts receivable securitization program (as amended, the Program) with certain commercial paper conduit purchasers and committed purchasers (collectively, the Purchasers). Under the Program, certain U.S. originated trade accounts receivable are sold to a wholly owned bankruptcy remote entity, ADM Receivables, LLC (ADM Receivables). ADM Receivables in turn transfers such purchased accounts receivable in their entirety to the Purchasers pursuant to a receivables purchase agreement. In exchange for the transfer of the accounts receivable, ADM Receivables receives a cash payment of up to $1.0 billion and an additional amount upon the collection of the accounts receivable (deferred consideration). ADM Receivables uses the cash proceeds from the transfer of receivables to the Purchasers and other consideration to finance the purchase of receivables from the Company and the ADM subsidiaries originating the receivables. The Company accounts for these transfers as sales. The Company has no retained interests in the transferred receivables, other than collection and administrative responsibilities and its right to the deferred consideration. At June 30, 2012, the Company did not record a servicing asset or liability related to its retained responsibility, based on its assessment of the servicing fee, market values for similar transactions and its cost of servicing the receivables sold. The Program terminates on June 28, 2013. As of June 30, 2012, the fair value of trade receivables transferred to the Purchasers under the Program and derecognized from the Companys consolidated balance sheet was $1.6 billion. In exchange for the transfer, the Company received cash of $1.0 billion and recorded a receivable for deferred consideration included in other current assets. Cash collections from customers on receivables sold were $8.9 billion for the four months ended June 30, 2012. Of this amount, $8.9 billion pertains to cash collections on the deferred consideration. Deferred consideration is paid to the Company in cash on behalf of the Purchasers as receivables are collected; however, as this is a revolving facility, cash collected from the Companys customers is reinvested by the Purchasers daily in new receivable purchases under the Program. The Companys risk of loss following the transfer of accounts receivable under the Program is limited to the deferred consideration outstanding, which is classified as other current assets and was $0.6 billion at June 30, 2012. The Company carries the deferred consideration at fair value determined by calculating the expected amount of cash to be received and is principally based on observable inputs (a Level 2 measurement under ASC 820) consisting mainly of the face amount of the receivables adjusted for anticipated credit losses and discounted at the appropriate market rate. Payment of deferred consideration is not subject to significant risks other than delinquencies and credit losses on accounts receivable transferred under the program which have historically been insignificant. Transfers of receivables under the Program during the year ended June 30, 2012 resulted in an expense for the loss on sale of $4 million which is classified as selling, general, and administrative expenses in the consolidated statements of earnings. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Critical Accounting Policies The process of preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the carrying values of the Companys assets and liabilities as well as the recognition of revenues and expenses. These estimates and judgments are based on the Companys historical experience and managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Certain of the Companys accounting policies are considered critical, as these policies are important to the depiction of the Companys financial statements and require significant or complex judgment by management. Management has discussed with the Companys Audit Committee the development, selection, disclosure, and application of these critical accounting policies. Following are the accounting policies management considers critical to the Companys financial statements. Fair Value Measurements Inventories and Derivatives Certain of the Companys assets and liabilities as of June 30, 2012 are valued at estimated fair values, including $6.8 billion of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, $3.1 billion of derivative assets, $3.0 billion of derivative liabilities, and $0.3 billion of inventory related payables. Derivative assets and liabilities include forward fixed price purchase and sale contracts for agricultural commodities, forward foreign exchange contracts, and over the counter instruments such as options contracts. The merchandisable agricultural commodities are freely traded, have quoted market prices, and may be sold without significant additional processing. Management estimates fair value for its commodity related assets and liabilities based on exchange quoted prices, adjusted for differences in local markets. The Companys fair value measurements are mainly based on observable market quotations without significant adjustments and are therefore reported as Level 1 or Level 2 within the fair value hierarchy. Level 3 fair value measurements represent fair value estimates where unobservable price components represent 10% or more of the total fair value price. For more information concerning amounts reported as Level 3, see Note 3 in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Changes in the market values of these inventories and contracts are recognized in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. If management used different methods or factors to estimate market value, amounts reported as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. Additionally, if market conditions change subsequent to year end, amounts reported in future periods as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. Derivatives Designated Hedging Activities The Company, from time to time, uses derivative contracts designated as cash flow hedges to fix the purchase price of anticipated volumes of commodities to be purchased and processed in a future month, to fix the purchase price of the Companys anticipated natural gas requirements for certain production facilities, and to fix the sales price of anticipated volumes of ethanol. These designated hedging programs principally relate to the Companys Corn Processing operating segment. The change in the market value of such derivative contracts has historically been, and is expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold and net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. If it is determined that the derivative instruments used are no longer effective at offsetting changes in the price of the hedged item, then the changes in the market value of these exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts would be recorded immediately in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. See Note 4 in Item 8 for additional information. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Investments in Affiliates The Company applies the equity method of accounting for investments over which the Company has the ability to exercise significant influence, including its 16.4% investment in Wilmar. These investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings and are adjusted, where appropriate, for amortizable basis differences between the investment balance and the underlying net assets of the investee. Generally, the minimum ownership threshold for asserting significant influence is 20% ownership of the investee. However, the Company considers all relevant factors in determining its ability to assert significant influence including but not limited to, ownership percentage, board membership, customer and vendor relationships, and other arrangements. If management used a different accounting method for these investments, then the amount of earnings from affiliates the Company recognizes may differ. Income Taxes The Company frequently faces challenges from U.S. and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company records reserves for estimates of potential additional tax owed by the Company. As an example, a subsidiary of the Company received tax assessments in the amount of $570 million consisting of tax, penalty, and interest (adjusted for interest and variation in currency exchange rates) from the Brazilian Federal Revenue Service challenging the deductibility of commodity hedging losses incurred by the Company for tax years 2004, 2006 and 2007. The Company evaluated its tax position regarding these hedging transactions and concluded, based in part upon advice from Brazilian legal counsel, that it was appropriate to recognize the tax benefits of these deductions (see Note 15 in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for additional information). Deferred tax assets represent items to be used as tax deductions or credits in future tax returns, and the related tax benefit has already been recognized in the Companys income statement. The realization of the Companys deferred tax assets is dependent upon future taxable income in specific tax jurisdictions, the timing and amount of which are uncertain. The Company evaluates all available positive and negative evidence including estimated future reversals of existing temporary differences, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies, and recent financial results. Valuation allowances related to these deferred tax assets have been established to the extent the realization of the tax benefit is not likely. To the extent the Company were to favorably resolve matters for which accruals have been established or be required to pay amounts in excess of the aforementioned reserves, the Companys effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be impacted. Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and the Companys share of the undistributed earnings of affiliated corporate joint venture companies accounted for on the equity method amounting to approximately $7.2 billion at June 30, 2012, are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Property, Plant, and Equipment and Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand, changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned factors may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and cash flows of the Companys assets in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its facilities. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment, technology, and companies related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. Assets are written down after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these assets, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. During 2012, 2011, and 2010, impairment charges were $367 million, $2 million, and $9 million, respectively (see Note 19 for additional information on charges taken in 2012). Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets Goodwill and intangible assets deemed to have indefinite lives are not amortized but are subject to annual impairment tests. The Company evaluates goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year or whenever there are indicators that the carrying value of the assets may not be fully recoverable. Definite lived intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives and are reviewed for impairment whenever there are indicators that the carrying value of the assets may not be fully recoverable. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its impairment tests, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Employee Benefit Plans The Company provides substantially all U.S. employees and employees at certain international subsidiaries with pension benefits. Eligible U.S. employees with five or more years of service prior to January 1, 2009 participate in a defined benefit pension plan. Eligible U.S. employees hired on or after January 1, 2009 (and eligible salaried employees with less than five years of service prior to January 1, 2009) participate in a cash balance pension formula. The Company provides eligible U.S. employees who retire under qualifying conditions with access to postretirement health care, at full cost to the retiree (certain employees are grandfathered into subsidized coverage). In order to measure the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans, management makes several estimates and assumptions, including interest rates used to discount certain liabilities, rates of return on assets set aside to fund these plans, rates of compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and anticipated future health care costs. These estimates and assumptions are based on the Companys historical experience combined with managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Management also uses third party actuaries to assist in measuring the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans. If management used different estimates and assumptions regarding these plans, the funded status of the plans could vary significantly, and the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. See Note 17 in Item 8 for additional information. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in: commodity market prices as they relate to the Companys net commodity position, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and prices of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to factors such as changes in weather conditions, crop disease, plantings, government programs and policies, competition, changes in global demand, changes in customer preferences and standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. The Company manages its exposure to adverse price movements of agricultural commodities used for, and produced in, its business operations, by entering into derivative and non derivative contracts which reduce the Companys overall short or long commodity position. Additionally, the Company uses exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the correlation between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contract defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company, from time to time, enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed designated hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold or net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. The Companys commodity position consists of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, related purchase and sales contracts, energy and freight contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts including contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements, net of sales. The fair value of the Companys commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing all of the commodity positions at quoted market prices for the period, where available, or utilizing a close proxy. The Company has established metrics to monitor the amount of market risk exposure, which consist of volumetric limits, and value at risk (VaR) limits. VaR measures the potential loss, at a 95% confidence level, that could be incurred over a one year period. Volumetric limits are monitored daily and VaR calculations and sensitivity analysis are monitored weekly. In addition to measuring the hypothetical loss resulting from an adverse two standard deviation move in market prices (assuming no correlations) over a one year period using VaR, sensitivity analysis is performed measuring the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in market prices. The highest, lowest, and average weekly position for each of the last two years together with the market risk from a hypothetical 10% adverse price change is as follows: 2012 2011 Long/(Short) Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest position $ 1,477 $ 148 $ 2,388 $ 239 Lowest position (383 ) (38 ) 368 37 Average position 546 55 1,644 164 The decline in fair value of the average position for 2012 compared to 2011 was principally the result of the decline in average quantities underlying the weekly commodity position. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) Currencies The Company has consolidated subsidiaries in over 75 countries. For the majority of the Companys subsidiaries located outside the United States, the local currency is the functional currency. To reduce the risks associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, the Company enters into currency exchange contracts to minimize its foreign currency position related to transactions denominated primarily in Euro, British pound, Canadian dollar, and Brazilian real currencies. These currencies represent the major functional or local currencies in which recurring business transactions occur. The Company does not use currency exchange contracts as hedges against amounts permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The currency exchange contracts used are forward contracts, swaps with banks, exchange traded futures contracts, and over the counter options. The changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $7.2 billion at June 30, 2012, and $8.2 billion at June 30, 2011. This decrease is due to the depreciation of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar partially offset by an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The potential loss in fair value, which would principally be recognized in Other Comprehensive Income, resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $722 million and $823 million for 2012 and 2011, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 50 basis points decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2012 2011 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 8,057 $ 9,108 Excess of fair value over carrying value 1,522 842 Market risk 422 333 The decrease in fair value of long term debt in 2012 resulted principally from the reclassification of $1.5 billion in floating rate notes to short term debt partially offset by decreased interest rates. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Oilseeds Processing operating profit increased 9% to $1.7 billion. Crushing and Origination results increased $91 million to $925 million. Improved North American crushing results, particularly for cotton seed and canola, were partially offset by lower crushing margins in South America and Europe. Margins globally were enhanced by good positioning and by improved origination results. In South America, fertilizer results improved due to higher margins and volumes. Refining, Packaging, Biodiesel and Other results increased $42 million to $342 million due principally to higher packaged oils margins and improved North American and European biodiesel results. Cocoa and Other results increased $114 million to $240 million primarily due to the $71 million gain on the revaluation of the Companys equity interest in Golden Peanut and higher peanut profits as a result of the December 31, 2010 acquisition of the remaining 50% interest of Golden Peanut. Asia results decreased $108 million due principally to decreased earnings from the Companys equity investee, Wilmar. Corn Processing operating profit increased 46% to $1.1 billion, which includes favorable impacts from ownership positions, which were allocated to sweeteners and starches and bioproducts based on total grind. Sweeteners and Starches operating profit decreased $208 million to $330 million due to higher net corn costs partially offset by higher sales volumes. Sales volumes increased due to U.S. export shipments of sweeteners and improved U.S. demand for industrial starches. Bioproducts operating profit improved $549 million primarily due to higher ethanol sales volumes and higher average selling prices leading to increased ethanol and lysine margins. Bioproducts margins were also enhanced by favorable corn ownership positions. Bioproducts results included startup costs related to the Companys new plants of $94 million in 2011 compared to $107 million in the prior year. Agricultural Services operating profit increased 32% to $1.3 billion. Merchandising and Handling results increased due to higher corn and wheat sales volumes and higher margins. A large 2010 U.S. harvest combined with strong international demand resulted in higher U.S. export shipments. Merchandising and Handling results in 2011 included an insurance recovery of $67 million related to property damage and business interruption resulting from an October 2008 explosion at the Companys Destrehan, LA, export facility. International merchandising results were weaker in part due to positions impacted by unexpected shifts in crop supply caused by weather conditions and government actions in the Black Sea region. Transportation results increased $21 million to $117 million primarily due to higher barge freight rates and higher barge utilization levels, in part due to higher U.S. export volumes. Milling and Other results improved due principally to increased equity earnings from the Companys equity investee, Gruma which include a $78 million gain related to Grumas disposal of certain assets. Other financial operating profit decreased 15% to $39 million primarily due to higher captive insurance loss provisions principally related to a $67 million loss related to the Companys Destrehan, LA, export facility insurance claim. Corporate results decreased $364 million primarily due to the negative impact from changing LIFO inventory valuations and higher interest expense net. The effects of changing commodity prices on LIFO inventory reserves resulted in charges of $368 million compared to credits of $42 million for the prior year. Corporate interest expense increased $64 million mostly due to lower capitalization of interest costs for construction projects in progress. Partially offsetting the higher LIFO and interest costs were $30 million of gains on interest rate swaps compared to prior year losses on interest rate swaps of $59 million. In addition, 2010 included charges of $75 million on early debt extinguishment compared to $8 million of similar charges in 2011. Liquidity and Capital Resources A Company objective is to have sufficient liquidity, balance sheet strength, and financial flexibility to fund the operating and capital requirements of a capital intensive agricultural commodity based business. The primary source of funds to finance the Companys operations and capital expenditures is cash generated by operations and lines of credit, including a commercial paper borrowing facility. In addition, the Company believes it has access to funds from public and private equity and debt capital markets in both U.S. and international markets. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Cash provided by operating activities was $2.9 billion for the year compared to cash used in operating activities of $2.3 billion last year. Working capital decreased $0.3 billion since the beginning of fiscal 2012 due principally to the $1.0 billion account receivable securitization program discussed below. In fiscal 2011 working capital increased $5.2 billion due principally to higher agricultural commodity prices. Cash used in investing activities was $1.1 billion for the year compared to a $1.7 billion use last year. Capital expenditures were $1.5 billion for the year compared to $1.2 billion last year. The Company spent approximately $0.2 billion on acquisitions in fiscal 2012 and 2011. Related to the sale of the majority interest in Hickory Point Bank, the Company reduced its holdings of marketable securities generating cash of $0.3 billion and divested cash of $0.1 billion as a result of the deconsolidation. In fiscal 2011, net purchases of marketable securities used $0.3 billion of cash. Cash used in financing activities was $1.1 billion for the year compared to cash provided by financing activities of $3.6 billion last year. In fiscal 2012, the Company returned nearly $1.0 billion to shareholders in the form of dividends and share repurchases, including the acquisition of 18.4 million of its common shares for $0.5 billion. In fiscal 2011 net borrowings increased primarily to fund higher working capital. Short term borrowings increased due principally to higher commercial paper borrowings, and long term borrowings increased primarily as a result of the issuance of $1.5 billion of 18 month floating rate notes in February 2011. In addition the Company issued 44 million shares of common stock and received $1.75 billion in fiscal 2011 under the forward stock purchase component of the Companys Equity Units (see Note 10 in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data). At June 30, 2012, the Company had $1.5 billion of cash, cash equivalents, and short term marketable securities and a current ratio, defined as current assets divided by current liabilities, of 1.8 to 1. Included in working capital is $7.8 billion of readily marketable commodity inventories. At June 30, 2012, the Companys capital resources included net worth of $18.2 billion and lines of credit totaling $6.5 billion, of which $4.4 billion was unused. The Companys ratio of long term debt to total capital (the sum of the Companys long term debt and shareholders equity) was 26% at June 30, 2012 and 30% at June 30, 2011. This ratio is a measure of the Companys long term indebtedness and is an indicator of financial flexibility. Of the Companys total lines of credit, $4.3 billion support a commercial paper borrowing facility, against which there were $1.3 billion of commercial paper outstanding at June 30, 2012. In August 2012, the Company added a $2.0 billion credit facility which will support commercial paper borrowings. On March 27, 2012, the Company entered into an amendment of its accounts receivable securitization program (as amended, the Program) with certain commercial paper conduit purchasers and committed purchasers (collectively, the Purchasers). The Program provides the Company with up to $1.0 billion in funding against accounts receivable transferred into the Program and expands the Companys access to liquidity through efficient use of its balance sheet assets. Under the Program, certain U.S. originated trade accounts receivable are sold to a wholly owned bankruptcy remote entity, ADM Receivables, LLC (ADM Receivables). ADM Receivables in turn transfers such purchased accounts receivable in their entirety to the Purchasers pursuant to a receivables purchase agreement. In exchange for the transfer of the accounts receivable, ADM Receivables receives a cash payment of up to $1.0 billion and an additional amount upon the collection of the accounts receivable (deferred consideration). ADM Receivables uses the cash proceeds from the transfer of receivables to the Purchasers and other consideration to finance the purchase of receivables from the Company and the ADM subsidiaries originating the receivables. The Company acts as master servicer, responsible for servicing and collecting the accounts receivable under the Program. The Program terminates on June 28, 2013 (see Note 20 for more information and disclosures on the Program). As of June 30, 2012, the fair value of trade receivables transferred to the Purchasers under the Program and derecognized from the Companys consolidated balance sheet was $1.6 billion. In exchange for the transfer, the Company received cash of $1.0 billion and recorded a receivable for deferred consideration included in other current assets. The Company has outstanding $1.4 billion principal amount of floating rate notes due on August 13, 2012. Interest on the notes accrues at a floating rate three month LIBOR reset quarterly plus 0.16% and is paid quarterly. As of June 30, 2012, the interest rate on the notes was 0.63%. In August 2012, the Company paid these notes with funds available from short term borrowings. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) The Company has outstanding $1.15 billion principal amount of convertible senior notes. As of June 30, 2012, none of the conditions permitting conversion of these notes had been satisfied. The Company has purchased call options and warrants intended to reduce the potential shareholder dilution upon future conversion of the notes. As of June 30, 2012, the market price of the Companys common stock was not greater than the exercise price of the purchased call options or warrants related to the convertible senior notes. The Company is currently experiencing generally higher prices for agricultural commodities as a result of tightening crop supplies, mostly due to weather impacts on current year U.S. corn and soybean crop production. Higher prices of commodities have historically correlated with increases in the Companys working capital requirements. The Company depends on access to credit markets, which can be impacted by its credit rating and factors outside of the Companys control, such as the European debt situation, to fund its working capital needs and capital expenditures. The Company expects capital expenditures to range from $0.5 billion to $0.6 billion for the upcoming 6 month period ending December 31, 2012. On November 5, 2009, the Companys Board of Directors approved a stock repurchase program authorizing the Company to repurchase up to 100,000,000 shares of the Companys common stock during the period commencing January 1, 2010 and ending December 31, 2014. The Company has acquired approximately 31.6 million shares under this program, resulting in remaining approval to acquire 68.4 million shares. The Companys credit facilities and certain debentures require the Company to comply with specified financial and non financial covenants including maintenance of minimum tangible net worth as well as limitations related to incurring liens, secured debt, and certain other financing arrangements. The Company is in compliance with these covenants as of June 30, 2012. Contractual Obligations In the normal course of business, the Company enters into contracts and commitments which obligate the Company to make payments in the future. The following table sets forth the Companys significant future obligations by time period. Purchases include commodity based contracts entered into in the normal course of business, which are further described in Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, energy related purchase contracts entered into in the normal course of business, and other purchase obligations related to the Companys normal business activities. The following table does not include unrecognized income tax benefits of $80 million as of June 30, 2012 as the Company is unable to reasonably estimate the timing of settlement. Where applicable, information included in the Companys consolidated financial statements and notes is cross referenced in this table. Payments Due by Period Contractual Item 8 Note Less than 1 3 3 5 More than Obligations Reference Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years (In millions) Purchases Inventories $ 17,724 $ 17,307 $ 211 $ 130 $ 76 Energy 866 390 233 87 156 Other 242 145 86 10 1 Total purchases 18,832 17,842 530 227 233 Short term debt 2,108 2,108 Long term debt Note 10 8,212 1,677 1,114 320 5,101 Estimated interest payments 6,688 374 650 636 5,028 Operating leases Note 16 1,135 244 365 263 263 Estimated pension and other postretirement plan contributions (1) Note 17 188 64 23 25 76 Total $ 37,163 $ 22,309 $ 2,682 $ 1,471 $ 10,701 (1) Includes pension contributions of $53 million for fiscal 2013. The Company is unable to estimate the amount of pension contributions beyond fiscal year 2013. For more information concerning the Companys pension and other postretirement plans, see Note 17 in Item 8. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) At June 30, 2012, the Company estimates it will spend approximately $2.1 billion through calendar year 2015 to complete currently approved capital projects which are not included in the table above. The Company also has outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds of $644 million at June 30, 2012. In addition, the Company has entered into agreements, primarily debt guarantee agreements related to equity method investees, which could obligate the Company to make future payments. The Companys liability under these agreements arises only if the primary entity fails to perform its contractual obligation. The Company has collateral for a portion of these contingent obligations. At June 30, 2012, these contingent obligations totaled approximately $30 million. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements On March 27, 2012, the Company entered into an amendment of its accounts receivable securitization program (as amended, the Program) with certain commercial paper conduit purchasers and committed purchasers (collectively, the Purchasers). Under the Program, certain U.S. originated trade accounts receivable are sold to a wholly owned bankruptcy remote entity, ADM Receivables, LLC (ADM Receivables). ADM Receivables in turn transfers such purchased accounts receivable in their entirety to the Purchasers pursuant to a receivables purchase agreement. In exchange for the transfer of the accounts receivable, ADM Receivables receives a cash payment of up to $1.0 billion and an additional amount upon the collection of the accounts receivable (deferred consideration). ADM Receivables uses the cash proceeds from the transfer of receivables to the Purchasers and other consideration to finance the purchase of receivables from the Company and the ADM subsidiaries originating the receivables. The Company accounts for these transfers as sales. The Company has no retained interests in the transferred receivables, other than collection and administrative responsibilities and its right to the deferred consideration. At June 30, 2012, the Company did not record a servicing asset or liability related to its retained responsibility, based on its assessment of the servicing fee, market values for similar transactions and its cost of servicing the receivables sold. The Program terminates on June 28, 2013. As of June 30, 2012, the fair value of trade receivables transferred to the Purchasers under the Program and derecognized from the Companys consolidated balance sheet was $1.6 billion. In exchange for the transfer, the Company received cash of $1.0 billion and recorded a receivable for deferred consideration included in other current assets. Cash collections from customers on receivables sold were $8.9 billion for the four months ended June 30, 2012. Of this amount, $8.9 billion pertains to cash collections on the deferred consideration. Deferred consideration is paid to the Company in cash on behalf of the Purchasers as receivables are collected; however, as this is a revolving facility, cash collected from the Companys customers is reinvested by the Purchasers daily in new receivable purchases under the Program. The Companys risk of loss following the transfer of accounts receivable under the Program is limited to the deferred consideration outstanding, which is classified as other current assets and was $0.6 billion at June 30, 2012. The Company carries the deferred consideration at fair value determined by calculating the expected amount of cash to be received and is principally based on observable inputs (a Level 2 measurement under ASC 820) consisting mainly of the face amount of the receivables adjusted for anticipated credit losses and discounted at the appropriate market rate. Payment of deferred consideration is not subject to significant risks other than delinquencies and credit losses on accounts receivable transferred under the program which have historically been insignificant. Transfers of receivables under the Program during the year ended June 30, 2012 resulted in an expense for the loss on sale of $4 million which is classified as selling, general, and administrative expenses in the consolidated statements of earnings. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Critical Accounting Policies The process of preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the carrying values of the Companys assets and liabilities as well as the recognition of revenues and expenses. These estimates and judgments are based on the Companys historical experience and managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Certain of the Companys accounting policies are considered critical, as these policies are important to the depiction of the Companys financial statements and require significant or complex judgment by management. Management has discussed with the Companys Audit Committee the development, selection, disclosure, and application of these critical accounting policies. Following are the accounting policies management considers critical to the Companys financial statements. Fair Value Measurements Inventories and Derivatives Certain of the Companys assets and liabilities as of June 30, 2012 are valued at estimated fair values, including $6.8 billion of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, $3.1 billion of derivative assets, $3.0 billion of derivative liabilities, and $0.3 billion of inventory related payables. Derivative assets and liabilities include forward fixed price purchase and sale contracts for agricultural commodities, forward foreign exchange contracts, and over the counter instruments such as options contracts. The merchandisable agricultural commodities are freely traded, have quoted market prices, and may be sold without significant additional processing. Management estimates fair value for its commodity related assets and liabilities based on exchange quoted prices, adjusted for differences in local markets. The Companys fair value measurements are mainly based on observable market quotations without significant adjustments and are therefore reported as Level 1 or Level 2 within the fair value hierarchy. Level 3 fair value measurements represent fair value estimates where unobservable price components represent 10% or more of the total fair value price. For more information concerning amounts reported as Level 3, see Note 3 in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Changes in the market values of these inventories and contracts are recognized in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. If management used different methods or factors to estimate market value, amounts reported as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. Additionally, if market conditions change subsequent to year end, amounts reported in future periods as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. Derivatives Designated Hedging Activities The Company, from time to time, uses derivative contracts designated as cash flow hedges to fix the purchase price of anticipated volumes of commodities to be purchased and processed in a future month, to fix the purchase price of the Companys anticipated natural gas requirements for certain production facilities, and to fix the sales price of anticipated volumes of ethanol. These designated hedging programs principally relate to the Companys Corn Processing operating segment. The change in the market value of such derivative contracts has historically been, and is expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold and net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. If it is determined that the derivative instruments used are no longer effective at offsetting changes in the price of the hedged item, then the changes in the market value of these exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts would be recorded immediately in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. See Note 4 in Item 8 for additional information. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Investments in Affiliates The Company applies the equity method of accounting for investments over which the Company has the ability to exercise significant influence, including its 16.4% investment in Wilmar. These investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings and are adjusted, where appropriate, for amortizable basis differences between the investment balance and the underlying net assets of the investee. Generally, the minimum ownership threshold for asserting significant influence is 20% ownership of the investee. However, the Company considers all relevant factors in determining its ability to assert significant influence including but not limited to, ownership percentage, board membership, customer and vendor relationships, and other arrangements. If management used a different accounting method for these investments, then the amount of earnings from affiliates the Company recognizes may differ. Income Taxes The Company frequently faces challenges from U.S. and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company records reserves for estimates of potential additional tax owed by the Company. As an example, a subsidiary of the Company received tax assessments in the amount of $570 million consisting of tax, penalty, and interest (adjusted for interest and variation in currency exchange rates) from the Brazilian Federal Revenue Service challenging the deductibility of commodity hedging losses incurred by the Company for tax years 2004, 2006 and 2007. The Company evaluated its tax position regarding these hedging transactions and concluded, based in part upon advice from Brazilian legal counsel, that it was appropriate to recognize the tax benefits of these deductions (see Note 15 in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for additional information). Deferred tax assets represent items to be used as tax deductions or credits in future tax returns, and the related tax benefit has already been recognized in the Companys income statement. The realization of the Companys deferred tax assets is dependent upon future taxable income in specific tax jurisdictions, the timing and amount of which are uncertain. The Company evaluates all available positive and negative evidence including estimated future reversals of existing temporary differences, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies, and recent financial results. Valuation allowances related to these deferred tax assets have been established to the extent the realization of the tax benefit is not likely. To the extent the Company were to favorably resolve matters for which accruals have been established or be required to pay amounts in excess of the aforementioned reserves, the Companys effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be impacted. Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and the Companys share of the undistributed earnings of affiliated corporate joint venture companies accounted for on the equity method amounting to approximately $7.2 billion at June 30, 2012, are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Property, Plant, and Equipment and Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand, changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned factors may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and cash flows of the Companys assets in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its facilities. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment, technology, and companies related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. Assets are written down after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these assets, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. During 2012, 2011, and 2010, impairment charges were $367 million, $2 million, and $9 million, respectively (see Note 19 for additional information on charges taken in 2012). Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets Goodwill and intangible assets deemed to have indefinite lives are not amortized but are subject to annual impairment tests. The Company evaluates goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year or whenever there are indicators that the carrying value of the assets may not be fully recoverable. Definite lived intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives and are reviewed for impairment whenever there are indicators that the carrying value of the assets may not be fully recoverable. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its impairment tests, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Employee Benefit Plans The Company provides substantially all U.S. employees and employees at certain international subsidiaries with pension benefits. Eligible U.S. employees with five or more years of service prior to January 1, 2009 participate in a defined benefit pension plan. Eligible U.S. employees hired on or after January 1, 2009 (and eligible salaried employees with less than five years of service prior to January 1, 2009) participate in a cash balance pension formula. The Company provides eligible U.S. employees who retire under qualifying conditions with access to postretirement health care, at full cost to the retiree (certain employees are grandfathered into subsidized coverage). In order to measure the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans, management makes several estimates and assumptions, including interest rates used to discount certain liabilities, rates of return on assets set aside to fund these plans, rates of compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and anticipated future health care costs. These estimates and assumptions are based on the Companys historical experience combined with managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Management also uses third party actuaries to assist in measuring the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans. If management used different estimates and assumptions regarding these plans, the funded status of the plans could vary significantly, and the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. See Note 17 in Item 8 for additional information. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in: commodity market prices as they relate to the Companys net commodity position, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and prices of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to factors such as changes in weather conditions, crop disease, plantings, government programs and policies, competition, changes in global demand, changes in customer preferences and standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. The Company manages its exposure to adverse price movements of agricultural commodities used for, and produced in, its business operations, by entering into derivative and non derivative contracts which reduce the Companys overall short or long commodity position. Additionally, the Company uses exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the correlation between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contract defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company, from time to time, enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed designated hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold or net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. The Companys commodity position consists of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, related purchase and sales contracts, energy and freight contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts including contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements, net of sales. The fair value of the Companys commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing all of the commodity positions at quoted market prices for the period, where available, or utilizing a close proxy. The Company has established metrics to monitor the amount of market risk exposure, which consist of volumetric limits, and value at risk (VaR) limits. VaR measures the potential loss, at a 95% confidence level, that could be incurred over a one year period. Volumetric limits are monitored daily and VaR calculations and sensitivity analysis are monitored weekly. In addition to measuring the hypothetical loss resulting from an adverse two standard deviation move in market prices (assuming no correlations) over a one year period using VaR, sensitivity analysis is performed measuring the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in market prices. The highest, lowest, and average weekly position for each of the last two years together with the market risk from a hypothetical 10% adverse price change is as follows: 2012 2011 Long/(Short) Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest position $ 1,477 $ 148 $ 2,388 $ 239 Lowest position (383 ) (38 ) 368 37 Average position 546 55 1,644 164 The decline in fair value of the average position for 2012 compared to 2011 was principally the result of the decline in average quantities underlying the weekly commodity position. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) Currencies The Company has consolidated subsidiaries in over 75 countries. For the majority of the Companys subsidiaries located outside the United States, the local currency is the functional currency. To reduce the risks associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, the Company enters into currency exchange contracts to minimize its foreign currency position related to transactions denominated primarily in Euro, British pound, Canadian dollar, and Brazilian real currencies. These currencies represent the major functional or local currencies in which recurring business transactions occur. The Company does not use currency exchange contracts as hedges against amounts permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The currency exchange contracts used are forward contracts, swaps with banks, exchange traded futures contracts, and over the counter options. The changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $7.2 billion at June 30, 2012, and $8.2 billion at June 30, 2011. This decrease is due to the depreciation of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar partially offset by an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The potential loss in fair value, which would principally be recognized in Other Comprehensive Income, resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $722 million and $823 million for 2012 and 2011, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 50 basis points decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2012 2011 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 8,057 $ 9,108 Excess of fair value over carrying value 1,522 842 Market risk 422 333 The decrease in fair value of long term debt in 2012 resulted principally from the reclassification of $1.5 billion in floating rate notes to short term debt partially offset by decreased interest rates. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Cash provided by operating activities was $2.9 billion for the year compared to cash used in operating activities of $2.3 billion last year. Working capital decreased $0.3 billion since the beginning of fiscal 2012 due principally to the $1.0 billion account receivable securitization program discussed below. In fiscal 2011 working capital increased $5.2 billion due principally to higher agricultural commodity prices. Cash used in investing activities was $1.1 billion for the year compared to a $1.7 billion use last year. Capital expenditures were $1.5 billion for the year compared to $1.2 billion last year. The Company spent approximately $0.2 billion on acquisitions in fiscal 2012 and 2011. Related to the sale of the majority interest in Hickory Point Bank, the Company reduced its holdings of marketable securities generating cash of $0.3 billion and divested cash of $0.1 billion as a result of the deconsolidation. In fiscal 2011, net purchases of marketable securities used $0.3 billion of cash. Cash used in financing activities was $1.1 billion for the year compared to cash provided by financing activities of $3.6 billion last year. In fiscal 2012, the Company returned nearly $1.0 billion to shareholders in the form of dividends and share repurchases, including the acquisition of 18.4 million of its common shares for $0.5 billion. In fiscal 2011 net borrowings increased primarily to fund higher working capital. Short term borrowings increased due principally to higher commercial paper borrowings, and long term borrowings increased primarily as a result of the issuance of $1.5 billion of 18 month floating rate notes in February 2011. In addition the Company issued 44 million shares of common stock and received $1.75 billion in fiscal 2011 under the forward stock purchase component of the Companys Equity Units (see Note 10 in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data). At June 30, 2012, the Company had $1.5 billion of cash, cash equivalents, and short term marketable securities and a current ratio, defined as current assets divided by current liabilities, of 1.8 to 1. Included in working capital is $7.8 billion of readily marketable commodity inventories. At June 30, 2012, the Companys capital resources included net worth of $18.2 billion and lines of credit totaling $6.5 billion, of which $4.4 billion was unused. The Companys ratio of long term debt to total capital (the sum of the Companys long term debt and shareholders equity) was 26% at June 30, 2012 and 30% at June 30, 2011. This ratio is a measure of the Companys long term indebtedness and is an indicator of financial flexibility. Of the Companys total lines of credit, $4.3 billion support a commercial paper borrowing facility, against which there were $1.3 billion of commercial paper outstanding at June 30, 2012. In August 2012, the Company added a $2.0 billion credit facility which will support commercial paper borrowings. On March 27, 2012, the Company entered into an amendment of its accounts receivable securitization program (as amended, the Program) with certain commercial paper conduit purchasers and committed purchasers (collectively, the Purchasers). The Program provides the Company with up to $1.0 billion in funding against accounts receivable transferred into the Program and expands the Companys access to liquidity through efficient use of its balance sheet assets. Under the Program, certain U.S. originated trade accounts receivable are sold to a wholly owned bankruptcy remote entity, ADM Receivables, LLC (ADM Receivables). ADM Receivables in turn transfers such purchased accounts receivable in their entirety to the Purchasers pursuant to a receivables purchase agreement. In exchange for the transfer of the accounts receivable, ADM Receivables receives a cash payment of up to $1.0 billion and an additional amount upon the collection of the accounts receivable (deferred consideration). ADM Receivables uses the cash proceeds from the transfer of receivables to the Purchasers and other consideration to finance the purchase of receivables from the Company and the ADM subsidiaries originating the receivables. The Company acts as master servicer, responsible for servicing and collecting the accounts receivable under the Program. The Program terminates on June 28, 2013 (see Note 20 for more information and disclosures on the Program). As of June 30, 2012, the fair value of trade receivables transferred to the Purchasers under the Program and derecognized from the Companys consolidated balance sheet was $1.6 billion. In exchange for the transfer, the Company received cash of $1.0 billion and recorded a receivable for deferred consideration included in other current assets. The Company has outstanding $1.4 billion principal amount of floating rate notes due on August 13, 2012. Interest on the notes accrues at a floating rate three month LIBOR reset quarterly plus 0.16% and is paid quarterly. As of June 30, 2012, the interest rate on the notes was 0.63%. In August 2012, the Company paid these notes with funds available from short term borrowings. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) The Company has outstanding $1.15 billion principal amount of convertible senior notes. As of June 30, 2012, none of the conditions permitting conversion of these notes had been satisfied. The Company has purchased call options and warrants intended to reduce the potential shareholder dilution upon future conversion of the notes. As of June 30, 2012, the market price of the Companys common stock was not greater than the exercise price of the purchased call options or warrants related to the convertible senior notes. The Company is currently experiencing generally higher prices for agricultural commodities as a result of tightening crop supplies, mostly due to weather impacts on current year U.S. corn and soybean crop production. Higher prices of commodities have historically correlated with increases in the Companys working capital requirements. The Company depends on access to credit markets, which can be impacted by its credit rating and factors outside of the Companys control, such as the European debt situation, to fund its working capital needs and capital expenditures. The Company expects capital expenditures to range from $0.5 billion to $0.6 billion for the upcoming 6 month period ending December 31, 2012. On November 5, 2009, the Companys Board of Directors approved a stock repurchase program authorizing the Company to repurchase up to 100,000,000 shares of the Companys common stock during the period commencing January 1, 2010 and ending December 31, 2014. The Company has acquired approximately 31.6 million shares under this program, resulting in remaining approval to acquire 68.4 million shares. The Companys credit facilities and certain debentures require the Company to comply with specified financial and non financial covenants including maintenance of minimum tangible net worth as well as limitations related to incurring liens, secured debt, and certain other financing arrangements. The Company is in compliance with these covenants as of June 30, 2012. Contractual Obligations In the normal course of business, the Company enters into contracts and commitments which obligate the Company to make payments in the future. The following table sets forth the Companys significant future obligations by time period. Purchases include commodity based contracts entered into in the normal course of business, which are further described in Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, energy related purchase contracts entered into in the normal course of business, and other purchase obligations related to the Companys normal business activities. The following table does not include unrecognized income tax benefits of $80 million as of June 30, 2012 as the Company is unable to reasonably estimate the timing of settlement. Where applicable, information included in the Companys consolidated financial statements and notes is cross referenced in this table. Payments Due by Period Contractual Item 8 Note Less than 1 3 3 5 More than Obligations Reference Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years (In millions) Purchases Inventories $ 17,724 $ 17,307 $ 211 $ 130 $ 76 Energy 866 390 233 87 156 Other 242 145 86 10 1 Total purchases 18,832 17,842 530 227 233 Short term debt 2,108 2,108 Long term debt Note 10 8,212 1,677 1,114 320 5,101 Estimated interest payments 6,688 374 650 636 5,028 Operating leases Note 16 1,135 244 365 263 263 Estimated pension and other postretirement plan contributions (1) Note 17 188 64 23 25 76 Total $ 37,163 $ 22,309 $ 2,682 $ 1,471 $ 10,701 (1) Includes pension contributions of $53 million for fiscal 2013. The Company is unable to estimate the amount of pension contributions beyond fiscal year 2013. For more information concerning the Companys pension and other postretirement plans, see Note 17 in Item 8. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) At June 30, 2012, the Company estimates it will spend approximately $2.1 billion through calendar year 2015 to complete currently approved capital projects which are not included in the table above. The Company also has outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds of $644 million at June 30, 2012. In addition, the Company has entered into agreements, primarily debt guarantee agreements related to equity method investees, which could obligate the Company to make future payments. The Companys liability under these agreements arises only if the primary entity fails to perform its contractual obligation. The Company has collateral for a portion of these contingent obligations. At June 30, 2012, these contingent obligations totaled approximately $30 million. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements On March 27, 2012, the Company entered into an amendment of its accounts receivable securitization program (as amended, the Program) with certain commercial paper conduit purchasers and committed purchasers (collectively, the Purchasers). Under the Program, certain U.S. originated trade accounts receivable are sold to a wholly owned bankruptcy remote entity, ADM Receivables, LLC (ADM Receivables). ADM Receivables in turn transfers such purchased accounts receivable in their entirety to the Purchasers pursuant to a receivables purchase agreement. In exchange for the transfer of the accounts receivable, ADM Receivables receives a cash payment of up to $1.0 billion and an additional amount upon the collection of the accounts receivable (deferred consideration). ADM Receivables uses the cash proceeds from the transfer of receivables to the Purchasers and other consideration to finance the purchase of receivables from the Company and the ADM subsidiaries originating the receivables. The Company accounts for these transfers as sales. The Company has no retained interests in the transferred receivables, other than collection and administrative responsibilities and its right to the deferred consideration. At June 30, 2012, the Company did not record a servicing asset or liability related to its retained responsibility, based on its assessment of the servicing fee, market values for similar transactions and its cost of servicing the receivables sold. The Program terminates on June 28, 2013. As of June 30, 2012, the fair value of trade receivables transferred to the Purchasers under the Program and derecognized from the Companys consolidated balance sheet was $1.6 billion. In exchange for the transfer, the Company received cash of $1.0 billion and recorded a receivable for deferred consideration included in other current assets. Cash collections from customers on receivables sold were $8.9 billion for the four months ended June 30, 2012. Of this amount, $8.9 billion pertains to cash collections on the deferred consideration. Deferred consideration is paid to the Company in cash on behalf of the Purchasers as receivables are collected; however, as this is a revolving facility, cash collected from the Companys customers is reinvested by the Purchasers daily in new receivable purchases under the Program. The Companys risk of loss following the transfer of accounts receivable under the Program is limited to the deferred consideration outstanding, which is classified as other current assets and was $0.6 billion at June 30, 2012. The Company carries the deferred consideration at fair value determined by calculating the expected amount of cash to be received and is principally based on observable inputs (a Level 2 measurement under ASC 820) consisting mainly of the face amount of the receivables adjusted for anticipated credit losses and discounted at the appropriate market rate. Payment of deferred consideration is not subject to significant risks other than delinquencies and credit losses on accounts receivable transferred under the program which have historically been insignificant. Transfers of receivables under the Program during the year ended June 30, 2012 resulted in an expense for the loss on sale of $4 million which is classified as selling, general, and administrative expenses in the consolidated statements of earnings. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Critical Accounting Policies The process of preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the carrying values of the Companys assets and liabilities as well as the recognition of revenues and expenses. These estimates and judgments are based on the Companys historical experience and managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Certain of the Companys accounting policies are considered critical, as these policies are important to the depiction of the Companys financial statements and require significant or complex judgment by management. Management has discussed with the Companys Audit Committee the development, selection, disclosure, and application of these critical accounting policies. Following are the accounting policies management considers critical to the Companys financial statements. Fair Value Measurements Inventories and Derivatives Certain of the Companys assets and liabilities as of June 30, 2012 are valued at estimated fair values, including $6.8 billion of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, $3.1 billion of derivative assets, $3.0 billion of derivative liabilities, and $0.3 billion of inventory related payables. Derivative assets and liabilities include forward fixed price purchase and sale contracts for agricultural commodities, forward foreign exchange contracts, and over the counter instruments such as options contracts. The merchandisable agricultural commodities are freely traded, have quoted market prices, and may be sold without significant additional processing. Management estimates fair value for its commodity related assets and liabilities based on exchange quoted prices, adjusted for differences in local markets. The Companys fair value measurements are mainly based on observable market quotations without significant adjustments and are therefore reported as Level 1 or Level 2 within the fair value hierarchy. Level 3 fair value measurements represent fair value estimates where unobservable price components represent 10% or more of the total fair value price. For more information concerning amounts reported as Level 3, see Note 3 in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Changes in the market values of these inventories and contracts are recognized in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. If management used different methods or factors to estimate market value, amounts reported as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. Additionally, if market conditions change subsequent to year end, amounts reported in future periods as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. Derivatives Designated Hedging Activities The Company, from time to time, uses derivative contracts designated as cash flow hedges to fix the purchase price of anticipated volumes of commodities to be purchased and processed in a future month, to fix the purchase price of the Companys anticipated natural gas requirements for certain production facilities, and to fix the sales price of anticipated volumes of ethanol. These designated hedging programs principally relate to the Companys Corn Processing operating segment. The change in the market value of such derivative contracts has historically been, and is expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold and net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. If it is determined that the derivative instruments used are no longer effective at offsetting changes in the price of the hedged item, then the changes in the market value of these exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts would be recorded immediately in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. See Note 4 in Item 8 for additional information. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Investments in Affiliates The Company applies the equity method of accounting for investments over which the Company has the ability to exercise significant influence, including its 16.4% investment in Wilmar. These investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings and are adjusted, where appropriate, for amortizable basis differences between the investment balance and the underlying net assets of the investee. Generally, the minimum ownership threshold for asserting significant influence is 20% ownership of the investee. However, the Company considers all relevant factors in determining its ability to assert significant influence including but not limited to, ownership percentage, board membership, customer and vendor relationships, and other arrangements. If management used a different accounting method for these investments, then the amount of earnings from affiliates the Company recognizes may differ. Income Taxes The Company frequently faces challenges from U.S. and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company records reserves for estimates of potential additional tax owed by the Company. As an example, a subsidiary of the Company received tax assessments in the amount of $570 million consisting of tax, penalty, and interest (adjusted for interest and variation in currency exchange rates) from the Brazilian Federal Revenue Service challenging the deductibility of commodity hedging losses incurred by the Company for tax years 2004, 2006 and 2007. The Company evaluated its tax position regarding these hedging transactions and concluded, based in part upon advice from Brazilian legal counsel, that it was appropriate to recognize the tax benefits of these deductions (see Note 15 in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for additional information). Deferred tax assets represent items to be used as tax deductions or credits in future tax returns, and the related tax benefit has already been recognized in the Companys income statement. The realization of the Companys deferred tax assets is dependent upon future taxable income in specific tax jurisdictions, the timing and amount of which are uncertain. The Company evaluates all available positive and negative evidence including estimated future reversals of existing temporary differences, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies, and recent financial results. Valuation allowances related to these deferred tax assets have been established to the extent the realization of the tax benefit is not likely. To the extent the Company were to favorably resolve matters for which accruals have been established or be required to pay amounts in excess of the aforementioned reserves, the Companys effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be impacted. Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and the Companys share of the undistributed earnings of affiliated corporate joint venture companies accounted for on the equity method amounting to approximately $7.2 billion at June 30, 2012, are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Property, Plant, and Equipment and Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand, changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned factors may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and cash flows of the Companys assets in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its facilities. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment, technology, and companies related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. Assets are written down after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these assets, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. During 2012, 2011, and 2010, impairment charges were $367 million, $2 million, and $9 million, respectively (see Note 19 for additional information on charges taken in 2012). Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets Goodwill and intangible assets deemed to have indefinite lives are not amortized but are subject to annual impairment tests. The Company evaluates goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year or whenever there are indicators that the carrying value of the assets may not be fully recoverable. Definite lived intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives and are reviewed for impairment whenever there are indicators that the carrying value of the assets may not be fully recoverable. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its impairment tests, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Employee Benefit Plans The Company provides substantially all U.S. employees and employees at certain international subsidiaries with pension benefits. Eligible U.S. employees with five or more years of service prior to January 1, 2009 participate in a defined benefit pension plan. Eligible U.S. employees hired on or after January 1, 2009 (and eligible salaried employees with less than five years of service prior to January 1, 2009) participate in a cash balance pension formula. The Company provides eligible U.S. employees who retire under qualifying conditions with access to postretirement health care, at full cost to the retiree (certain employees are grandfathered into subsidized coverage). In order to measure the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans, management makes several estimates and assumptions, including interest rates used to discount certain liabilities, rates of return on assets set aside to fund these plans, rates of compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and anticipated future health care costs. These estimates and assumptions are based on the Companys historical experience combined with managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Management also uses third party actuaries to assist in measuring the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans. If management used different estimates and assumptions regarding these plans, the funded status of the plans could vary significantly, and the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. See Note 17 in Item 8 for additional information. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in: commodity market prices as they relate to the Companys net commodity position, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and prices of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to factors such as changes in weather conditions, crop disease, plantings, government programs and policies, competition, changes in global demand, changes in customer preferences and standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. The Company manages its exposure to adverse price movements of agricultural commodities used for, and produced in, its business operations, by entering into derivative and non derivative contracts which reduce the Companys overall short or long commodity position. Additionally, the Company uses exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the correlation between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contract defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company, from time to time, enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed designated hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold or net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. The Companys commodity position consists of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, related purchase and sales contracts, energy and freight contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts including contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements, net of sales. The fair value of the Companys commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing all of the commodity positions at quoted market prices for the period, where available, or utilizing a close proxy. The Company has established metrics to monitor the amount of market risk exposure, which consist of volumetric limits, and value at risk (VaR) limits. VaR measures the potential loss, at a 95% confidence level, that could be incurred over a one year period. Volumetric limits are monitored daily and VaR calculations and sensitivity analysis are monitored weekly. In addition to measuring the hypothetical loss resulting from an adverse two standard deviation move in market prices (assuming no correlations) over a one year period using VaR, sensitivity analysis is performed measuring the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in market prices. The highest, lowest, and average weekly position for each of the last two years together with the market risk from a hypothetical 10% adverse price change is as follows: 2012 2011 Long/(Short) Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest position $ 1,477 $ 148 $ 2,388 $ 239 Lowest position (383 ) (38 ) 368 37 Average position 546 55 1,644 164 The decline in fair value of the average position for 2012 compared to 2011 was principally the result of the decline in average quantities underlying the weekly commodity position. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) Currencies The Company has consolidated subsidiaries in over 75 countries. For the majority of the Companys subsidiaries located outside the United States, the local currency is the functional currency. To reduce the risks associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, the Company enters into currency exchange contracts to minimize its foreign currency position related to transactions denominated primarily in Euro, British pound, Canadian dollar, and Brazilian real currencies. These currencies represent the major functional or local currencies in which recurring business transactions occur. The Company does not use currency exchange contracts as hedges against amounts permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The currency exchange contracts used are forward contracts, swaps with banks, exchange traded futures contracts, and over the counter options. The changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $7.2 billion at June 30, 2012, and $8.2 billion at June 30, 2011. This decrease is due to the depreciation of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar partially offset by an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The potential loss in fair value, which would principally be recognized in Other Comprehensive Income, resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $722 million and $823 million for 2012 and 2011, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 50 basis points decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2012 2011 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 8,057 $ 9,108 Excess of fair value over carrying value 1,522 842 Market risk 422 333 The decrease in fair value of long term debt in 2012 resulted principally from the reclassification of $1.5 billion in floating rate notes to short term debt partially offset by decreased interest rates. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) The Company has outstanding $1.15 billion principal amount of convertible senior notes. As of June 30, 2012, none of the conditions permitting conversion of these notes had been satisfied. The Company has purchased call options and warrants intended to reduce the potential shareholder dilution upon future conversion of the notes. As of June 30, 2012, the market price of the Companys common stock was not greater than the exercise price of the purchased call options or warrants related to the convertible senior notes. The Company is currently experiencing generally higher prices for agricultural commodities as a result of tightening crop supplies, mostly due to weather impacts on current year U.S. corn and soybean crop production. Higher prices of commodities have historically correlated with increases in the Companys working capital requirements. The Company depends on access to credit markets, which can be impacted by its credit rating and factors outside of the Companys control, such as the European debt situation, to fund its working capital needs and capital expenditures. The Company expects capital expenditures to range from $0.5 billion to $0.6 billion for the upcoming 6 month period ending December 31, 2012. On November 5, 2009, the Companys Board of Directors approved a stock repurchase program authorizing the Company to repurchase up to 100,000,000 shares of the Companys common stock during the period commencing January 1, 2010 and ending December 31, 2014. The Company has acquired approximately 31.6 million shares under this program, resulting in remaining approval to acquire 68.4 million shares. The Companys credit facilities and certain debentures require the Company to comply with specified financial and non financial covenants including maintenance of minimum tangible net worth as well as limitations related to incurring liens, secured debt, and certain other financing arrangements. The Company is in compliance with these covenants as of June 30, 2012. Contractual Obligations In the normal course of business, the Company enters into contracts and commitments which obligate the Company to make payments in the future. The following table sets forth the Companys significant future obligations by time period. Purchases include commodity based contracts entered into in the normal course of business, which are further described in Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, energy related purchase contracts entered into in the normal course of business, and other purchase obligations related to the Companys normal business activities. The following table does not include unrecognized income tax benefits of $80 million as of June 30, 2012 as the Company is unable to reasonably estimate the timing of settlement. Where applicable, information included in the Companys consolidated financial statements and notes is cross referenced in this table. Payments Due by Period Contractual Item 8 Note Less than 1 3 3 5 More than Obligations Reference Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years (In millions) Purchases Inventories $ 17,724 $ 17,307 $ 211 $ 130 $ 76 Energy 866 390 233 87 156 Other 242 145 86 10 1 Total purchases 18,832 17,842 530 227 233 Short term debt 2,108 2,108 Long term debt Note 10 8,212 1,677 1,114 320 5,101 Estimated interest payments 6,688 374 650 636 5,028 Operating leases Note 16 1,135 244 365 263 263 Estimated pension and other postretirement plan contributions (1) Note 17 188 64 23 25 76 Total $ 37,163 $ 22,309 $ 2,682 $ 1,471 $ 10,701 (1) Includes pension contributions of $53 million for fiscal 2013. The Company is unable to estimate the amount of pension contributions beyond fiscal year 2013. For more information concerning the Companys pension and other postretirement plans, see Note 17 in Item 8. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) At June 30, 2012, the Company estimates it will spend approximately $2.1 billion through calendar year 2015 to complete currently approved capital projects which are not included in the table above. The Company also has outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds of $644 million at June 30, 2012. In addition, the Company has entered into agreements, primarily debt guarantee agreements related to equity method investees, which could obligate the Company to make future payments. The Companys liability under these agreements arises only if the primary entity fails to perform its contractual obligation. The Company has collateral for a portion of these contingent obligations. At June 30, 2012, these contingent obligations totaled approximately $30 million. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements On March 27, 2012, the Company entered into an amendment of its accounts receivable securitization program (as amended, the Program) with certain commercial paper conduit purchasers and committed purchasers (collectively, the Purchasers). Under the Program, certain U.S. originated trade accounts receivable are sold to a wholly owned bankruptcy remote entity, ADM Receivables, LLC (ADM Receivables). ADM Receivables in turn transfers such purchased accounts receivable in their entirety to the Purchasers pursuant to a receivables purchase agreement. In exchange for the transfer of the accounts receivable, ADM Receivables receives a cash payment of up to $1.0 billion and an additional amount upon the collection of the accounts receivable (deferred consideration). ADM Receivables uses the cash proceeds from the transfer of receivables to the Purchasers and other consideration to finance the purchase of receivables from the Company and the ADM subsidiaries originating the receivables. The Company accounts for these transfers as sales. The Company has no retained interests in the transferred receivables, other than collection and administrative responsibilities and its right to the deferred consideration. At June 30, 2012, the Company did not record a servicing asset or liability related to its retained responsibility, based on its assessment of the servicing fee, market values for similar transactions and its cost of servicing the receivables sold. The Program terminates on June 28, 2013. As of June 30, 2012, the fair value of trade receivables transferred to the Purchasers under the Program and derecognized from the Companys consolidated balance sheet was $1.6 billion. In exchange for the transfer, the Company received cash of $1.0 billion and recorded a receivable for deferred consideration included in other current assets. Cash collections from customers on receivables sold were $8.9 billion for the four months ended June 30, 2012. Of this amount, $8.9 billion pertains to cash collections on the deferred consideration. Deferred consideration is paid to the Company in cash on behalf of the Purchasers as receivables are collected; however, as this is a revolving facility, cash collected from the Companys customers is reinvested by the Purchasers daily in new receivable purchases under the Program. The Companys risk of loss following the transfer of accounts receivable under the Program is limited to the deferred consideration outstanding, which is classified as other current assets and was $0.6 billion at June 30, 2012. The Company carries the deferred consideration at fair value determined by calculating the expected amount of cash to be received and is principally based on observable inputs (a Level 2 measurement under ASC 820) consisting mainly of the face amount of the receivables adjusted for anticipated credit losses and discounted at the appropriate market rate. Payment of deferred consideration is not subject to significant risks other than delinquencies and credit losses on accounts receivable transferred under the program which have historically been insignificant. Transfers of receivables under the Program during the year ended June 30, 2012 resulted in an expense for the loss on sale of $4 million which is classified as selling, general, and administrative expenses in the consolidated statements of earnings. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Critical Accounting Policies The process of preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the carrying values of the Companys assets and liabilities as well as the recognition of revenues and expenses. These estimates and judgments are based on the Companys historical experience and managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Certain of the Companys accounting policies are considered critical, as these policies are important to the depiction of the Companys financial statements and require significant or complex judgment by management. Management has discussed with the Companys Audit Committee the development, selection, disclosure, and application of these critical accounting policies. Following are the accounting policies management considers critical to the Companys financial statements. Fair Value Measurements Inventories and Derivatives Certain of the Companys assets and liabilities as of June 30, 2012 are valued at estimated fair values, including $6.8 billion of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, $3.1 billion of derivative assets, $3.0 billion of derivative liabilities, and $0.3 billion of inventory related payables. Derivative assets and liabilities include forward fixed price purchase and sale contracts for agricultural commodities, forward foreign exchange contracts, and over the counter instruments such as options contracts. The merchandisable agricultural commodities are freely traded, have quoted market prices, and may be sold without significant additional processing. Management estimates fair value for its commodity related assets and liabilities based on exchange quoted prices, adjusted for differences in local markets. The Companys fair value measurements are mainly based on observable market quotations without significant adjustments and are therefore reported as Level 1 or Level 2 within the fair value hierarchy. Level 3 fair value measurements represent fair value estimates where unobservable price components represent 10% or more of the total fair value price. For more information concerning amounts reported as Level 3, see Note 3 in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Changes in the market values of these inventories and contracts are recognized in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. If management used different methods or factors to estimate market value, amounts reported as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. Additionally, if market conditions change subsequent to year end, amounts reported in future periods as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. Derivatives Designated Hedging Activities The Company, from time to time, uses derivative contracts designated as cash flow hedges to fix the purchase price of anticipated volumes of commodities to be purchased and processed in a future month, to fix the purchase price of the Companys anticipated natural gas requirements for certain production facilities, and to fix the sales price of anticipated volumes of ethanol. These designated hedging programs principally relate to the Companys Corn Processing operating segment. The change in the market value of such derivative contracts has historically been, and is expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold and net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. If it is determined that the derivative instruments used are no longer effective at offsetting changes in the price of the hedged item, then the changes in the market value of these exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts would be recorded immediately in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. See Note 4 in Item 8 for additional information. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Investments in Affiliates The Company applies the equity method of accounting for investments over which the Company has the ability to exercise significant influence, including its 16.4% investment in Wilmar. These investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings and are adjusted, where appropriate, for amortizable basis differences between the investment balance and the underlying net assets of the investee. Generally, the minimum ownership threshold for asserting significant influence is 20% ownership of the investee. However, the Company considers all relevant factors in determining its ability to assert significant influence including but not limited to, ownership percentage, board membership, customer and vendor relationships, and other arrangements. If management used a different accounting method for these investments, then the amount of earnings from affiliates the Company recognizes may differ. Income Taxes The Company frequently faces challenges from U.S. and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company records reserves for estimates of potential additional tax owed by the Company. As an example, a subsidiary of the Company received tax assessments in the amount of $570 million consisting of tax, penalty, and interest (adjusted for interest and variation in currency exchange rates) from the Brazilian Federal Revenue Service challenging the deductibility of commodity hedging losses incurred by the Company for tax years 2004, 2006 and 2007. The Company evaluated its tax position regarding these hedging transactions and concluded, based in part upon advice from Brazilian legal counsel, that it was appropriate to recognize the tax benefits of these deductions (see Note 15 in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for additional information). Deferred tax assets represent items to be used as tax deductions or credits in future tax returns, and the related tax benefit has already been recognized in the Companys income statement. The realization of the Companys deferred tax assets is dependent upon future taxable income in specific tax jurisdictions, the timing and amount of which are uncertain. The Company evaluates all available positive and negative evidence including estimated future reversals of existing temporary differences, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies, and recent financial results. Valuation allowances related to these deferred tax assets have been established to the extent the realization of the tax benefit is not likely. To the extent the Company were to favorably resolve matters for which accruals have been established or be required to pay amounts in excess of the aforementioned reserves, the Companys effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be impacted. Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and the Companys share of the undistributed earnings of affiliated corporate joint venture companies accounted for on the equity method amounting to approximately $7.2 billion at June 30, 2012, are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Property, Plant, and Equipment and Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand, changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned factors may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and cash flows of the Companys assets in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its facilities. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment, technology, and companies related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. Assets are written down after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these assets, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. During 2012, 2011, and 2010, impairment charges were $367 million, $2 million, and $9 million, respectively (see Note 19 for additional information on charges taken in 2012). Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets Goodwill and intangible assets deemed to have indefinite lives are not amortized but are subject to annual impairment tests. The Company evaluates goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year or whenever there are indicators that the carrying value of the assets may not be fully recoverable. Definite lived intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives and are reviewed for impairment whenever there are indicators that the carrying value of the assets may not be fully recoverable. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its impairment tests, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Employee Benefit Plans The Company provides substantially all U.S. employees and employees at certain international subsidiaries with pension benefits. Eligible U.S. employees with five or more years of service prior to January 1, 2009 participate in a defined benefit pension plan. Eligible U.S. employees hired on or after January 1, 2009 (and eligible salaried employees with less than five years of service prior to January 1, 2009) participate in a cash balance pension formula. The Company provides eligible U.S. employees who retire under qualifying conditions with access to postretirement health care, at full cost to the retiree (certain employees are grandfathered into subsidized coverage). In order to measure the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans, management makes several estimates and assumptions, including interest rates used to discount certain liabilities, rates of return on assets set aside to fund these plans, rates of compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and anticipated future health care costs. These estimates and assumptions are based on the Companys historical experience combined with managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Management also uses third party actuaries to assist in measuring the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans. If management used different estimates and assumptions regarding these plans, the funded status of the plans could vary significantly, and the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. See Note 17 in Item 8 for additional information. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in: commodity market prices as they relate to the Companys net commodity position, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and prices of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to factors such as changes in weather conditions, crop disease, plantings, government programs and policies, competition, changes in global demand, changes in customer preferences and standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. The Company manages its exposure to adverse price movements of agricultural commodities used for, and produced in, its business operations, by entering into derivative and non derivative contracts which reduce the Companys overall short or long commodity position. Additionally, the Company uses exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the correlation between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contract defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company, from time to time, enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed designated hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold or net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. The Companys commodity position consists of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, related purchase and sales contracts, energy and freight contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts including contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements, net of sales. The fair value of the Companys commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing all of the commodity positions at quoted market prices for the period, where available, or utilizing a close proxy. The Company has established metrics to monitor the amount of market risk exposure, which consist of volumetric limits, and value at risk (VaR) limits. VaR measures the potential loss, at a 95% confidence level, that could be incurred over a one year period. Volumetric limits are monitored daily and VaR calculations and sensitivity analysis are monitored weekly. In addition to measuring the hypothetical loss resulting from an adverse two standard deviation move in market prices (assuming no correlations) over a one year period using VaR, sensitivity analysis is performed measuring the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in market prices. The highest, lowest, and average weekly position for each of the last two years together with the market risk from a hypothetical 10% adverse price change is as follows: 2012 2011 Long/(Short) Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest position $ 1,477 $ 148 $ 2,388 $ 239 Lowest position (383 ) (38 ) 368 37 Average position 546 55 1,644 164 The decline in fair value of the average position for 2012 compared to 2011 was principally the result of the decline in average quantities underlying the weekly commodity position. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) Currencies The Company has consolidated subsidiaries in over 75 countries. For the majority of the Companys subsidiaries located outside the United States, the local currency is the functional currency. To reduce the risks associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, the Company enters into currency exchange contracts to minimize its foreign currency position related to transactions denominated primarily in Euro, British pound, Canadian dollar, and Brazilian real currencies. These currencies represent the major functional or local currencies in which recurring business transactions occur. The Company does not use currency exchange contracts as hedges against amounts permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The currency exchange contracts used are forward contracts, swaps with banks, exchange traded futures contracts, and over the counter options. The changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $7.2 billion at June 30, 2012, and $8.2 billion at June 30, 2011. This decrease is due to the depreciation of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar partially offset by an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The potential loss in fair value, which would principally be recognized in Other Comprehensive Income, resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $722 million and $823 million for 2012 and 2011, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 50 basis points decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2012 2011 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 8,057 $ 9,108 Excess of fair value over carrying value 1,522 842 Market risk 422 333 The decrease in fair value of long term debt in 2012 resulted principally from the reclassification of $1.5 billion in floating rate notes to short term debt partially offset by decreased interest rates. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) At June 30, 2012, the Company estimates it will spend approximately $2.1 billion through calendar year 2015 to complete currently approved capital projects which are not included in the table above. The Company also has outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds of $644 million at June 30, 2012. In addition, the Company has entered into agreements, primarily debt guarantee agreements related to equity method investees, which could obligate the Company to make future payments. The Companys liability under these agreements arises only if the primary entity fails to perform its contractual obligation. The Company has collateral for a portion of these contingent obligations. At June 30, 2012, these contingent obligations totaled approximately $30 million. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements On March 27, 2012, the Company entered into an amendment of its accounts receivable securitization program (as amended, the Program) with certain commercial paper conduit purchasers and committed purchasers (collectively, the Purchasers). Under the Program, certain U.S. originated trade accounts receivable are sold to a wholly owned bankruptcy remote entity, ADM Receivables, LLC (ADM Receivables). ADM Receivables in turn transfers such purchased accounts receivable in their entirety to the Purchasers pursuant to a receivables purchase agreement. In exchange for the transfer of the accounts receivable, ADM Receivables receives a cash payment of up to $1.0 billion and an additional amount upon the collection of the accounts receivable (deferred consideration). ADM Receivables uses the cash proceeds from the transfer of receivables to the Purchasers and other consideration to finance the purchase of receivables from the Company and the ADM subsidiaries originating the receivables. The Company accounts for these transfers as sales. The Company has no retained interests in the transferred receivables, other than collection and administrative responsibilities and its right to the deferred consideration. At June 30, 2012, the Company did not record a servicing asset or liability related to its retained responsibility, based on its assessment of the servicing fee, market values for similar transactions and its cost of servicing the receivables sold. The Program terminates on June 28, 2013. As of June 30, 2012, the fair value of trade receivables transferred to the Purchasers under the Program and derecognized from the Companys consolidated balance sheet was $1.6 billion. In exchange for the transfer, the Company received cash of $1.0 billion and recorded a receivable for deferred consideration included in other current assets. Cash collections from customers on receivables sold were $8.9 billion for the four months ended June 30, 2012. Of this amount, $8.9 billion pertains to cash collections on the deferred consideration. Deferred consideration is paid to the Company in cash on behalf of the Purchasers as receivables are collected; however, as this is a revolving facility, cash collected from the Companys customers is reinvested by the Purchasers daily in new receivable purchases under the Program. The Companys risk of loss following the transfer of accounts receivable under the Program is limited to the deferred consideration outstanding, which is classified as other current assets and was $0.6 billion at June 30, 2012. The Company carries the deferred consideration at fair value determined by calculating the expected amount of cash to be received and is principally based on observable inputs (a Level 2 measurement under ASC 820) consisting mainly of the face amount of the receivables adjusted for anticipated credit losses and discounted at the appropriate market rate. Payment of deferred consideration is not subject to significant risks other than delinquencies and credit losses on accounts receivable transferred under the program which have historically been insignificant. Transfers of receivables under the Program during the year ended June 30, 2012 resulted in an expense for the loss on sale of $4 million which is classified as selling, general, and administrative expenses in the consolidated statements of earnings. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Critical Accounting Policies The process of preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the carrying values of the Companys assets and liabilities as well as the recognition of revenues and expenses. These estimates and judgments are based on the Companys historical experience and managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Certain of the Companys accounting policies are considered critical, as these policies are important to the depiction of the Companys financial statements and require significant or complex judgment by management. Management has discussed with the Companys Audit Committee the development, selection, disclosure, and application of these critical accounting policies. Following are the accounting policies management considers critical to the Companys financial statements. Fair Value Measurements Inventories and Derivatives Certain of the Companys assets and liabilities as of June 30, 2012 are valued at estimated fair values, including $6.8 billion of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, $3.1 billion of derivative assets, $3.0 billion of derivative liabilities, and $0.3 billion of inventory related payables. Derivative assets and liabilities include forward fixed price purchase and sale contracts for agricultural commodities, forward foreign exchange contracts, and over the counter instruments such as options contracts. The merchandisable agricultural commodities are freely traded, have quoted market prices, and may be sold without significant additional processing. Management estimates fair value for its commodity related assets and liabilities based on exchange quoted prices, adjusted for differences in local markets. The Companys fair value measurements are mainly based on observable market quotations without significant adjustments and are therefore reported as Level 1 or Level 2 within the fair value hierarchy. Level 3 fair value measurements represent fair value estimates where unobservable price components represent 10% or more of the total fair value price. For more information concerning amounts reported as Level 3, see Note 3 in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Changes in the market values of these inventories and contracts are recognized in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. If management used different methods or factors to estimate market value, amounts reported as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. Additionally, if market conditions change subsequent to year end, amounts reported in future periods as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. Derivatives Designated Hedging Activities The Company, from time to time, uses derivative contracts designated as cash flow hedges to fix the purchase price of anticipated volumes of commodities to be purchased and processed in a future month, to fix the purchase price of the Companys anticipated natural gas requirements for certain production facilities, and to fix the sales price of anticipated volumes of ethanol. These designated hedging programs principally relate to the Companys Corn Processing operating segment. The change in the market value of such derivative contracts has historically been, and is expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold and net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. If it is determined that the derivative instruments used are no longer effective at offsetting changes in the price of the hedged item, then the changes in the market value of these exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts would be recorded immediately in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. See Note 4 in Item 8 for additional information. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Investments in Affiliates The Company applies the equity method of accounting for investments over which the Company has the ability to exercise significant influence, including its 16.4% investment in Wilmar. These investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings and are adjusted, where appropriate, for amortizable basis differences between the investment balance and the underlying net assets of the investee. Generally, the minimum ownership threshold for asserting significant influence is 20% ownership of the investee. However, the Company considers all relevant factors in determining its ability to assert significant influence including but not limited to, ownership percentage, board membership, customer and vendor relationships, and other arrangements. If management used a different accounting method for these investments, then the amount of earnings from affiliates the Company recognizes may differ. Income Taxes The Company frequently faces challenges from U.S. and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company records reserves for estimates of potential additional tax owed by the Company. As an example, a subsidiary of the Company received tax assessments in the amount of $570 million consisting of tax, penalty, and interest (adjusted for interest and variation in currency exchange rates) from the Brazilian Federal Revenue Service challenging the deductibility of commodity hedging losses incurred by the Company for tax years 2004, 2006 and 2007. The Company evaluated its tax position regarding these hedging transactions and concluded, based in part upon advice from Brazilian legal counsel, that it was appropriate to recognize the tax benefits of these deductions (see Note 15 in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for additional information). Deferred tax assets represent items to be used as tax deductions or credits in future tax returns, and the related tax benefit has already been recognized in the Companys income statement. The realization of the Companys deferred tax assets is dependent upon future taxable income in specific tax jurisdictions, the timing and amount of which are uncertain. The Company evaluates all available positive and negative evidence including estimated future reversals of existing temporary differences, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies, and recent financial results. Valuation allowances related to these deferred tax assets have been established to the extent the realization of the tax benefit is not likely. To the extent the Company were to favorably resolve matters for which accruals have been established or be required to pay amounts in excess of the aforementioned reserves, the Companys effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be impacted. Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and the Companys share of the undistributed earnings of affiliated corporate joint venture companies accounted for on the equity method amounting to approximately $7.2 billion at June 30, 2012, are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Property, Plant, and Equipment and Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand, changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned factors may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and cash flows of the Companys assets in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its facilities. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment, technology, and companies related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. Assets are written down after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these assets, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. During 2012, 2011, and 2010, impairment charges were $367 million, $2 million, and $9 million, respectively (see Note 19 for additional information on charges taken in 2012). Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets Goodwill and intangible assets deemed to have indefinite lives are not amortized but are subject to annual impairment tests. The Company evaluates goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year or whenever there are indicators that the carrying value of the assets may not be fully recoverable. Definite lived intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives and are reviewed for impairment whenever there are indicators that the carrying value of the assets may not be fully recoverable. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its impairment tests, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Employee Benefit Plans The Company provides substantially all U.S. employees and employees at certain international subsidiaries with pension benefits. Eligible U.S. employees with five or more years of service prior to January 1, 2009 participate in a defined benefit pension plan. Eligible U.S. employees hired on or after January 1, 2009 (and eligible salaried employees with less than five years of service prior to January 1, 2009) participate in a cash balance pension formula. The Company provides eligible U.S. employees who retire under qualifying conditions with access to postretirement health care, at full cost to the retiree (certain employees are grandfathered into subsidized coverage). In order to measure the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans, management makes several estimates and assumptions, including interest rates used to discount certain liabilities, rates of return on assets set aside to fund these plans, rates of compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and anticipated future health care costs. These estimates and assumptions are based on the Companys historical experience combined with managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Management also uses third party actuaries to assist in measuring the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans. If management used different estimates and assumptions regarding these plans, the funded status of the plans could vary significantly, and the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. See Note 17 in Item 8 for additional information. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in: commodity market prices as they relate to the Companys net commodity position, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and prices of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to factors such as changes in weather conditions, crop disease, plantings, government programs and policies, competition, changes in global demand, changes in customer preferences and standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. The Company manages its exposure to adverse price movements of agricultural commodities used for, and produced in, its business operations, by entering into derivative and non derivative contracts which reduce the Companys overall short or long commodity position. Additionally, the Company uses exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the correlation between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contract defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company, from time to time, enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed designated hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold or net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. The Companys commodity position consists of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, related purchase and sales contracts, energy and freight contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts including contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements, net of sales. The fair value of the Companys commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing all of the commodity positions at quoted market prices for the period, where available, or utilizing a close proxy. The Company has established metrics to monitor the amount of market risk exposure, which consist of volumetric limits, and value at risk (VaR) limits. VaR measures the potential loss, at a 95% confidence level, that could be incurred over a one year period. Volumetric limits are monitored daily and VaR calculations and sensitivity analysis are monitored weekly. In addition to measuring the hypothetical loss resulting from an adverse two standard deviation move in market prices (assuming no correlations) over a one year period using VaR, sensitivity analysis is performed measuring the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in market prices. The highest, lowest, and average weekly position for each of the last two years together with the market risk from a hypothetical 10% adverse price change is as follows: 2012 2011 Long/(Short) Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest position $ 1,477 $ 148 $ 2,388 $ 239 Lowest position (383 ) (38 ) 368 37 Average position 546 55 1,644 164 The decline in fair value of the average position for 2012 compared to 2011 was principally the result of the decline in average quantities underlying the weekly commodity position. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) Currencies The Company has consolidated subsidiaries in over 75 countries. For the majority of the Companys subsidiaries located outside the United States, the local currency is the functional currency. To reduce the risks associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, the Company enters into currency exchange contracts to minimize its foreign currency position related to transactions denominated primarily in Euro, British pound, Canadian dollar, and Brazilian real currencies. These currencies represent the major functional or local currencies in which recurring business transactions occur. The Company does not use currency exchange contracts as hedges against amounts permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The currency exchange contracts used are forward contracts, swaps with banks, exchange traded futures contracts, and over the counter options. The changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $7.2 billion at June 30, 2012, and $8.2 billion at June 30, 2011. This decrease is due to the depreciation of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar partially offset by an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The potential loss in fair value, which would principally be recognized in Other Comprehensive Income, resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $722 million and $823 million for 2012 and 2011, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 50 basis points decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2012 2011 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 8,057 $ 9,108 Excess of fair value over carrying value 1,522 842 Market risk 422 333 The decrease in fair value of long term debt in 2012 resulted principally from the reclassification of $1.5 billion in floating rate notes to short term debt partially offset by decreased interest rates. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Critical Accounting Policies The process of preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the carrying values of the Companys assets and liabilities as well as the recognition of revenues and expenses. These estimates and judgments are based on the Companys historical experience and managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Certain of the Companys accounting policies are considered critical, as these policies are important to the depiction of the Companys financial statements and require significant or complex judgment by management. Management has discussed with the Companys Audit Committee the development, selection, disclosure, and application of these critical accounting policies. Following are the accounting policies management considers critical to the Companys financial statements. Fair Value Measurements Inventories and Derivatives Certain of the Companys assets and liabilities as of June 30, 2012 are valued at estimated fair values, including $6.8 billion of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, $3.1 billion of derivative assets, $3.0 billion of derivative liabilities, and $0.3 billion of inventory related payables. Derivative assets and liabilities include forward fixed price purchase and sale contracts for agricultural commodities, forward foreign exchange contracts, and over the counter instruments such as options contracts. The merchandisable agricultural commodities are freely traded, have quoted market prices, and may be sold without significant additional processing. Management estimates fair value for its commodity related assets and liabilities based on exchange quoted prices, adjusted for differences in local markets. The Companys fair value measurements are mainly based on observable market quotations without significant adjustments and are therefore reported as Level 1 or Level 2 within the fair value hierarchy. Level 3 fair value measurements represent fair value estimates where unobservable price components represent 10% or more of the total fair value price. For more information concerning amounts reported as Level 3, see Note 3 in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Changes in the market values of these inventories and contracts are recognized in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. If management used different methods or factors to estimate market value, amounts reported as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. Additionally, if market conditions change subsequent to year end, amounts reported in future periods as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. Derivatives Designated Hedging Activities The Company, from time to time, uses derivative contracts designated as cash flow hedges to fix the purchase price of anticipated volumes of commodities to be purchased and processed in a future month, to fix the purchase price of the Companys anticipated natural gas requirements for certain production facilities, and to fix the sales price of anticipated volumes of ethanol. These designated hedging programs principally relate to the Companys Corn Processing operating segment. The change in the market value of such derivative contracts has historically been, and is expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold and net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. If it is determined that the derivative instruments used are no longer effective at offsetting changes in the price of the hedged item, then the changes in the market value of these exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts would be recorded immediately in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold. See Note 4 in Item 8 for additional information. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Investments in Affiliates The Company applies the equity method of accounting for investments over which the Company has the ability to exercise significant influence, including its 16.4% investment in Wilmar. These investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings and are adjusted, where appropriate, for amortizable basis differences between the investment balance and the underlying net assets of the investee. Generally, the minimum ownership threshold for asserting significant influence is 20% ownership of the investee. However, the Company considers all relevant factors in determining its ability to assert significant influence including but not limited to, ownership percentage, board membership, customer and vendor relationships, and other arrangements. If management used a different accounting method for these investments, then the amount of earnings from affiliates the Company recognizes may differ. Income Taxes The Company frequently faces challenges from U.S. and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company records reserves for estimates of potential additional tax owed by the Company. As an example, a subsidiary of the Company received tax assessments in the amount of $570 million consisting of tax, penalty, and interest (adjusted for interest and variation in currency exchange rates) from the Brazilian Federal Revenue Service challenging the deductibility of commodity hedging losses incurred by the Company for tax years 2004, 2006 and 2007. The Company evaluated its tax position regarding these hedging transactions and concluded, based in part upon advice from Brazilian legal counsel, that it was appropriate to recognize the tax benefits of these deductions (see Note 15 in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for additional information). Deferred tax assets represent items to be used as tax deductions or credits in future tax returns, and the related tax benefit has already been recognized in the Companys income statement. The realization of the Companys deferred tax assets is dependent upon future taxable income in specific tax jurisdictions, the timing and amount of which are uncertain. The Company evaluates all available positive and negative evidence including estimated future reversals of existing temporary differences, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies, and recent financial results. Valuation allowances related to these deferred tax assets have been established to the extent the realization of the tax benefit is not likely. To the extent the Company were to favorably resolve matters for which accruals have been established or be required to pay amounts in excess of the aforementioned reserves, the Companys effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be impacted. Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and the Companys share of the undistributed earnings of affiliated corporate joint venture companies accounted for on the equity method amounting to approximately $7.2 billion at June 30, 2012, are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Property, Plant, and Equipment and Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand, changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned factors may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and cash flows of the Companys assets in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its facilities. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment, technology, and companies related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. Assets are written down after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these assets, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. During 2012, 2011, and 2010, impairment charges were $367 million, $2 million, and $9 million, respectively (see Note 19 for additional information on charges taken in 2012). Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets Goodwill and intangible assets deemed to have indefinite lives are not amortized but are subject to annual impairment tests. The Company evaluates goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year or whenever there are indicators that the carrying value of the assets may not be fully recoverable. Definite lived intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives and are reviewed for impairment whenever there are indicators that the carrying value of the assets may not be fully recoverable. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its impairment tests, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Employee Benefit Plans The Company provides substantially all U.S. employees and employees at certain international subsidiaries with pension benefits. Eligible U.S. employees with five or more years of service prior to January 1, 2009 participate in a defined benefit pension plan. Eligible U.S. employees hired on or after January 1, 2009 (and eligible salaried employees with less than five years of service prior to January 1, 2009) participate in a cash balance pension formula. The Company provides eligible U.S. employees who retire under qualifying conditions with access to postretirement health care, at full cost to the retiree (certain employees are grandfathered into subsidized coverage). In order to measure the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans, management makes several estimates and assumptions, including interest rates used to discount certain liabilities, rates of return on assets set aside to fund these plans, rates of compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and anticipated future health care costs. These estimates and assumptions are based on the Companys historical experience combined with managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Management also uses third party actuaries to assist in measuring the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans. If management used different estimates and assumptions regarding these plans, the funded status of the plans could vary significantly, and the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. See Note 17 in Item 8 for additional information. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in: commodity market prices as they relate to the Companys net commodity position, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and prices of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to factors such as changes in weather conditions, crop disease, plantings, government programs and policies, competition, changes in global demand, changes in customer preferences and standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. The Company manages its exposure to adverse price movements of agricultural commodities used for, and produced in, its business operations, by entering into derivative and non derivative contracts which reduce the Companys overall short or long commodity position. Additionally, the Company uses exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the correlation between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contract defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company, from time to time, enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed designated hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold or net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. The Companys commodity position consists of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, related purchase and sales contracts, energy and freight contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts including contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements, net of sales. The fair value of the Companys commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing all of the commodity positions at quoted market prices for the period, where available, or utilizing a close proxy. The Company has established metrics to monitor the amount of market risk exposure, which consist of volumetric limits, and value at risk (VaR) limits. VaR measures the potential loss, at a 95% confidence level, that could be incurred over a one year period. Volumetric limits are monitored daily and VaR calculations and sensitivity analysis are monitored weekly. In addition to measuring the hypothetical loss resulting from an adverse two standard deviation move in market prices (assuming no correlations) over a one year period using VaR, sensitivity analysis is performed measuring the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in market prices. The highest, lowest, and average weekly position for each of the last two years together with the market risk from a hypothetical 10% adverse price change is as follows: 2012 2011 Long/(Short) Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest position $ 1,477 $ 148 $ 2,388 $ 239 Lowest position (383 ) (38 ) 368 37 Average position 546 55 1,644 164 The decline in fair value of the average position for 2012 compared to 2011 was principally the result of the decline in average quantities underlying the weekly commodity position. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) Currencies The Company has consolidated subsidiaries in over 75 countries. For the majority of the Companys subsidiaries located outside the United States, the local currency is the functional currency. To reduce the risks associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, the Company enters into currency exchange contracts to minimize its foreign currency position related to transactions denominated primarily in Euro, British pound, Canadian dollar, and Brazilian real currencies. These currencies represent the major functional or local currencies in which recurring business transactions occur. The Company does not use currency exchange contracts as hedges against amounts permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The currency exchange contracts used are forward contracts, swaps with banks, exchange traded futures contracts, and over the counter options. The changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $7.2 billion at June 30, 2012, and $8.2 billion at June 30, 2011. This decrease is due to the depreciation of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar partially offset by an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The potential loss in fair value, which would principally be recognized in Other Comprehensive Income, resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $722 million and $823 million for 2012 and 2011, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 50 basis points decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2012 2011 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 8,057 $ 9,108 Excess of fair value over carrying value 1,522 842 Market risk 422 333 The decrease in fair value of long term debt in 2012 resulted principally from the reclassification of $1.5 billion in floating rate notes to short term debt partially offset by decreased interest rates. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Investments in Affiliates The Company applies the equity method of accounting for investments over which the Company has the ability to exercise significant influence, including its 16.4% investment in Wilmar. These investments in affiliates are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings and are adjusted, where appropriate, for amortizable basis differences between the investment balance and the underlying net assets of the investee. Generally, the minimum ownership threshold for asserting significant influence is 20% ownership of the investee. However, the Company considers all relevant factors in determining its ability to assert significant influence including but not limited to, ownership percentage, board membership, customer and vendor relationships, and other arrangements. If management used a different accounting method for these investments, then the amount of earnings from affiliates the Company recognizes may differ. Income Taxes The Company frequently faces challenges from U.S. and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company records reserves for estimates of potential additional tax owed by the Company. As an example, a subsidiary of the Company received tax assessments in the amount of $570 million consisting of tax, penalty, and interest (adjusted for interest and variation in currency exchange rates) from the Brazilian Federal Revenue Service challenging the deductibility of commodity hedging losses incurred by the Company for tax years 2004, 2006 and 2007. The Company evaluated its tax position regarding these hedging transactions and concluded, based in part upon advice from Brazilian legal counsel, that it was appropriate to recognize the tax benefits of these deductions (see Note 15 in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for additional information). Deferred tax assets represent items to be used as tax deductions or credits in future tax returns, and the related tax benefit has already been recognized in the Companys income statement. The realization of the Companys deferred tax assets is dependent upon future taxable income in specific tax jurisdictions, the timing and amount of which are uncertain. The Company evaluates all available positive and negative evidence including estimated future reversals of existing temporary differences, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies, and recent financial results. Valuation allowances related to these deferred tax assets have been established to the extent the realization of the tax benefit is not likely. To the extent the Company were to favorably resolve matters for which accruals have been established or be required to pay amounts in excess of the aforementioned reserves, the Companys effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be impacted. Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and the Companys share of the undistributed earnings of affiliated corporate joint venture companies accounted for on the equity method amounting to approximately $7.2 billion at June 30, 2012, are considered to be permanently reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. If the Company were to receive distributions from any of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates or determine the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries or affiliates to not be permanently reinvested, the Company could be subject to U.S. tax liabilities which have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Property, Plant, and Equipment and Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand, changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned factors may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and cash flows of the Companys assets in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its facilities. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment, technology, and companies related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. Assets are written down after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these assets, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. During 2012, 2011, and 2010, impairment charges were $367 million, $2 million, and $9 million, respectively (see Note 19 for additional information on charges taken in 2012). Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets Goodwill and intangible assets deemed to have indefinite lives are not amortized but are subject to annual impairment tests. The Company evaluates goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year or whenever there are indicators that the carrying value of the assets may not be fully recoverable. Definite lived intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives and are reviewed for impairment whenever there are indicators that the carrying value of the assets may not be fully recoverable. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its impairment tests, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Employee Benefit Plans The Company provides substantially all U.S. employees and employees at certain international subsidiaries with pension benefits. Eligible U.S. employees with five or more years of service prior to January 1, 2009 participate in a defined benefit pension plan. Eligible U.S. employees hired on or after January 1, 2009 (and eligible salaried employees with less than five years of service prior to January 1, 2009) participate in a cash balance pension formula. The Company provides eligible U.S. employees who retire under qualifying conditions with access to postretirement health care, at full cost to the retiree (certain employees are grandfathered into subsidized coverage). In order to measure the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans, management makes several estimates and assumptions, including interest rates used to discount certain liabilities, rates of return on assets set aside to fund these plans, rates of compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and anticipated future health care costs. These estimates and assumptions are based on the Companys historical experience combined with managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Management also uses third party actuaries to assist in measuring the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans. If management used different estimates and assumptions regarding these plans, the funded status of the plans could vary significantly, and the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. See Note 17 in Item 8 for additional information. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in: commodity market prices as they relate to the Companys net commodity position, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and prices of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to factors such as changes in weather conditions, crop disease, plantings, government programs and policies, competition, changes in global demand, changes in customer preferences and standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. The Company manages its exposure to adverse price movements of agricultural commodities used for, and produced in, its business operations, by entering into derivative and non derivative contracts which reduce the Companys overall short or long commodity position. Additionally, the Company uses exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the correlation between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contract defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company, from time to time, enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed designated hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold or net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. The Companys commodity position consists of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, related purchase and sales contracts, energy and freight contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts including contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements, net of sales. The fair value of the Companys commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing all of the commodity positions at quoted market prices for the period, where available, or utilizing a close proxy. The Company has established metrics to monitor the amount of market risk exposure, which consist of volumetric limits, and value at risk (VaR) limits. VaR measures the potential loss, at a 95% confidence level, that could be incurred over a one year period. Volumetric limits are monitored daily and VaR calculations and sensitivity analysis are monitored weekly. In addition to measuring the hypothetical loss resulting from an adverse two standard deviation move in market prices (assuming no correlations) over a one year period using VaR, sensitivity analysis is performed measuring the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in market prices. The highest, lowest, and average weekly position for each of the last two years together with the market risk from a hypothetical 10% adverse price change is as follows: 2012 2011 Long/(Short) Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest position $ 1,477 $ 148 $ 2,388 $ 239 Lowest position (383 ) (38 ) 368 37 Average position 546 55 1,644 164 The decline in fair value of the average position for 2012 compared to 2011 was principally the result of the decline in average quantities underlying the weekly commodity position. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) Currencies The Company has consolidated subsidiaries in over 75 countries. For the majority of the Companys subsidiaries located outside the United States, the local currency is the functional currency. To reduce the risks associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, the Company enters into currency exchange contracts to minimize its foreign currency position related to transactions denominated primarily in Euro, British pound, Canadian dollar, and Brazilian real currencies. These currencies represent the major functional or local currencies in which recurring business transactions occur. The Company does not use currency exchange contracts as hedges against amounts permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The currency exchange contracts used are forward contracts, swaps with banks, exchange traded futures contracts, and over the counter options. The changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $7.2 billion at June 30, 2012, and $8.2 billion at June 30, 2011. This decrease is due to the depreciation of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar partially offset by an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The potential loss in fair value, which would principally be recognized in Other Comprehensive Income, resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $722 million and $823 million for 2012 and 2011, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 50 basis points decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2012 2011 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 8,057 $ 9,108 Excess of fair value over carrying value 1,522 842 Market risk 422 333 The decrease in fair value of long term debt in 2012 resulted principally from the reclassification of $1.5 billion in floating rate notes to short term debt partially offset by decreased interest rates. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Property, Plant, and Equipment and Asset Abandonments and Write Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products. This business is global in nature and is highly capital intensive. Both the availability of the Companys raw materials and the demand for the Companys finished products are driven by factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand, changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. These aforementioned factors may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Companys raw materials and finished products. Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and cash flows of the Companys assets in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its facilities. The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment, technology, and companies related to new, value added products produced from agricultural commodities and products. These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective. Management evaluates the Companys property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. Assets are written down after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these assets, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. During 2012, 2011, and 2010, impairment charges were $367 million, $2 million, and $9 million, respectively (see Note 19 for additional information on charges taken in 2012). Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets Goodwill and intangible assets deemed to have indefinite lives are not amortized but are subject to annual impairment tests. The Company evaluates goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year or whenever there are indicators that the carrying value of the assets may not be fully recoverable. Definite lived intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives and are reviewed for impairment whenever there are indicators that the carrying value of the assets may not be fully recoverable. If management used different estimates and assumptions in its impairment tests, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Employee Benefit Plans The Company provides substantially all U.S. employees and employees at certain international subsidiaries with pension benefits. Eligible U.S. employees with five or more years of service prior to January 1, 2009 participate in a defined benefit pension plan. Eligible U.S. employees hired on or after January 1, 2009 (and eligible salaried employees with less than five years of service prior to January 1, 2009) participate in a cash balance pension formula. The Company provides eligible U.S. employees who retire under qualifying conditions with access to postretirement health care, at full cost to the retiree (certain employees are grandfathered into subsidized coverage). In order to measure the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans, management makes several estimates and assumptions, including interest rates used to discount certain liabilities, rates of return on assets set aside to fund these plans, rates of compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and anticipated future health care costs. These estimates and assumptions are based on the Companys historical experience combined with managements knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances. Management also uses third party actuaries to assist in measuring the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans. If management used different estimates and assumptions regarding these plans, the funded status of the plans could vary significantly, and the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. See Note 17 in Item 8 for additional information. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in the Companys market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in: commodity market prices as they relate to the Companys net commodity position, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates as described below. Commodities The availability and prices of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to factors such as changes in weather conditions, crop disease, plantings, government programs and policies, competition, changes in global demand, changes in customer preferences and standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. The Company manages its exposure to adverse price movements of agricultural commodities used for, and produced in, its business operations, by entering into derivative and non derivative contracts which reduce the Companys overall short or long commodity position. Additionally, the Company uses exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts as components of merchandising strategies designed to enhance margins. The results of these strategies can be significantly impacted by factors such as the correlation between the value of exchange traded commodities futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodities, counterparty contract defaults, and volatility of freight markets. In addition, the Company, from time to time, enters into derivative contracts which are designated as hedges of specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed, or sold, in a future month. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item. Gains and losses arising from open and closed designated hedging transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold or net sales and other operating income in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized. The Companys commodity position consists of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, related purchase and sales contracts, energy and freight contracts, and exchange traded futures and exchange traded and over the counter option contracts including contracts used to hedge portions of production requirements, net of sales. The fair value of the Companys commodity position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing all of the commodity positions at quoted market prices for the period, where available, or utilizing a close proxy. The Company has established metrics to monitor the amount of market risk exposure, which consist of volumetric limits, and value at risk (VaR) limits. VaR measures the potential loss, at a 95% confidence level, that could be incurred over a one year period. Volumetric limits are monitored daily and VaR calculations and sensitivity analysis are monitored weekly. In addition to measuring the hypothetical loss resulting from an adverse two standard deviation move in market prices (assuming no correlations) over a one year period using VaR, sensitivity analysis is performed measuring the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in market prices. The highest, lowest, and average weekly position for each of the last two years together with the market risk from a hypothetical 10% adverse price change is as follows: 2012 2011 Long/(Short) Fair Value Market Risk Fair Value Market Risk (In millions) Highest position $ 1,477 $ 148 $ 2,388 $ 239 Lowest position (383 ) (38 ) 368 37 Average position 546 55 1,644 164 The decline in fair value of the average position for 2012 compared to 2011 was principally the result of the decline in average quantities underlying the weekly commodity position. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (Continued) Currencies The Company has consolidated subsidiaries in over 75 countries. For the majority of the Companys subsidiaries located outside the United States, the local currency is the functional currency. To reduce the risks associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, the Company enters into currency exchange contracts to minimize its foreign currency position related to transactions denominated primarily in Euro, British pound, Canadian dollar, and Brazilian real currencies. These currencies represent the major functional or local currencies in which recurring business transactions occur. The Company does not use currency exchange contracts as hedges against amounts permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The currency exchange contracts used are forward contracts, swaps with banks, exchange traded futures contracts, and over the counter options. The changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to the price changes in the currency of the related transactions. The potential loss in fair value for such net currency position resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates is not material. The amount the Company considers permanently invested in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates and translated into dollars using the year end exchange rates is $7.2 billion at June 30, 2012, and $8.2 billion at June 30, 2011. This decrease is due to the depreciation of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar partially offset by an increase in retained earnings of the foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The potential loss in fair value, which would principally be recognized in Other Comprehensive Income, resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates is $722 million and $823 million for 2012 and 2011, respectively. Actual results may differ. Interest The fair value of the Companys long term debt is estimated using quoted market prices, where available, and discounted future cash flows based on the Companys current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. Such fair value exceeded the long term debt carrying value. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 50 basis points decrease in interest rates. Actual results may differ. 2012 2011 (In millions) Fair value of long term debt $ 8,057 $ 9,108 Excess of fair value over carrying value 1,522 842 Market risk 422 333 The decrease in fair value of long term debt in 2012 resulted principally from the reclassification of $1.5 billion in floating rate notes to short term debt partially offset by decreased interest rates. 
 
