FILE:FOSL/FOSL-8K-20040324163646.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
 
 
ITEM 5.
                                                    
OTHER EVENTS AND REGULATION FD DISCLOSURE
 
On March 23, 2004, Fossil, Inc. (the "Company") entered into an agreement to acquire Tempus International Corp. for approximately $50 million in cash.  Tempus, which does business as Michele Watches, is based in Miami, Florida and manufactures, markets and distributes luxury watches under the MW and MW Michele brand labels.  Michele Watches distributes its products primarily in the U.S. with a growing presence in Asia.  Michele's MW brand, launched as a fine watch brand in the United States in the fall of 2000, with its CSX Diamond Collections, quickly became a leader in its category at luxury retailers including Neiman Marcus, Saks Fifth Avenue and better independent retailers.  The acquisition, which is subject to certain conditions, including regulatory approvals, is expected to be consummated in early April.  A copy of the Company's press release regarding the acquisition is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1
 
On March 24, 2004, the Company announced the filing of a registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission covering a proposed offering of 4,350,000 shares of its common stock (plus an additional 652,500 shares of its common stock to cover over-allotments, if any) being sold by the Company's Chairman of the Board of Directors and the Company's President and Chief Executive Officer.  The Company will not receive any proceeds from this offering.  A copy of the press release related to the Registration Statement is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2.
 
ITEM 7.
                                                    
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
 
Exhibits
(c)
                                 
 
Press Release, dated March 23, 2004, announcing the acquisition of Michele Watches.
99.1
              
 
Press Release, dated March 24, 2004, announcing the filing of a registration statement for selling stockholders.
99.2
              
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
Fossil Contacts:
 
Tempus Contact:
Paul Wilmot Communications Lois Schrager (212) 206-7447 lschrager@greatpress.com
 
Mike Kovar
Chief Financial Officer
Fossil, Inc.
(972) 699-2229
 
Allison Malkin
Investor Relations
Integrated Corporate Relations
(203) 222-9013
 
 
Miami, FL /  Michele Watches announced today that it has entered into an agreement to be acquired by Fossil, Inc. (NASDAQ: FOSL) for approximately $50 million in cash.  Tempus (d/b/a Michele Watches), based in Miami, Florida, manufactures, markets and distributes watches under the MW and MW Michele brand labels.  The acquisition, which is subject to certain conditions, including regulatory approval, is expected to be finalized in April.  Following the acquisition, Tempus will continue to be run by Jack Barouh, the President of Tempus, from its offices in Miami, Florida and Geneva, Switzerland.
March 23, 2004
 
"Michele Watches is thrilled to join Fossil in what we know will prove to be a rewarding long term partnership", commented Mr. Barouh.  "Michele Watches and Fossil share a similar dedication and passion for the industry in which our reputations have been built.  We look forward to growing our business in collaboration with the tremendous resources and rich experience Fossil brings to the table", added Mr. Barouh.
"The strength and prestige that Jack Barouh, his family and entire team have developed with Michele (Watches) provides an added dimension to Fossil", commented Steve Bock, President of Fossil's Luxury Division.  "Following the acquisition, Jack and his team will continue to operate the business as usual.  Coupling Fossil's infrastructure and financial resources with the power of the Michele Watch brand will be a winning combination."
 
Fossil is a design, development, marketing and distribution company that specializes in consumer products predicated on fashion and value. The Company's principal offerings include an extensive line of watches sold under the Company's propriety brands FOSSIL, RELIC and ZODIAC as well as licensed brands for some of the most prestigious companies in the world including EMPORIO ARMANI, BURBERRY, DKNY and DIESEL. The Company also offers complementary lines of small leather goods, belts, handbags, sunglasses under the FOSSIL and RELIC brands, jewelry under the FOSSIL and EMPORIO ARMANI brands and FOSSIL apparel. The Company's products are sold in department stores and specialty retail stores in over 90 countries around the world, in addition to the Company's e-commerce website at www.fossil.com. Additionally, certain product, press release and SEC filing information concerning the Company is available on the website.
 
Michele Watches is a Miami, FL based firm that focuses on designing, manufacturing, marketing and distributing luxury watches under the MW and Michele brands. Launched as a fine watch brand in the United States in the fall of 2000 with its CSX Diamond Collections, Michele Watches quickly became a leader in its category at luxury retailers including Neiman Marcus, Saks Fifth Avenue, Bloomingdales, Nordstrom and better independents.  Michele Watches are primarily distributed in the U.S. with an increasing presence internationally. Involvement in every detail of the production of their watches has made Michele Watches a standout brand in the industry.  As consumer desires for unique and fashionable timepieces have grown more sophisticated, so has Michele Watches' commitment to high style.
 
Certain statements contained herein that are not historical facts constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and involve a number of risks and uncertainties. The actual results of the future events described in such forward-looking statements could differ materially from those stated in such forward-looking statements. Among the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially are: general economic conditions, competition, acts of terrorism or acts of war, government regulation, changes in foreign currency valuations in relation to the United States Dollar and possible future litigation, as well as the risks and uncertainties set forth on the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K dated June 25, 2003.

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
RICHARDSON, TX, March 24, 2004  Fossil, Inc. (NASDAQ: FOSL) announced today that it has filed a registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission covering a proposed offering of 4,350,000 shares of its common stock (plus an additional 652,500 shares of its common stock to cover over-allotments, if any) being sold by Mr. Tom Kartsotis and Mr. Kosta Kartsotis.  Mr. Tom Kartsotis serves as the company's Chairman of the Board of Directors and Mr. Kosta Kartsotis serves as the company's President and Chief Executive Officer. The Company will not receive any proceeds from this offering.
 
The shares will be sold through an underwriting syndicate led by J.P.Morgan Securities Inc., with Jefferies & Company, Inc. and CIBC World Markets Corp. acting as co-managers.
 
Mr. Tom Kartsotis currently owns 25.6% of our common stock and following the consummation of the offering will own 18.2%.  Mr. Kosta Kartsotis currently owns 14.7% of our common stock and following the consummation of the offering will own 12.4%.
 
A registration statement relating to these securities has been filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, but has not yet become effective. These securities may not be sold nor may offers to buy be accepted prior to the time the registration statement becomes effective.  This press release shall not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy, nor shall there be any sale of these securities in any state in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of any such state.
 
A copy of the preliminary prospectus relating to this offering, when available, may be obtained from J.P. Morgan Securities Inc., Addressing Department, One Chase Manhattan Plaza, Floor 5B, New York, New York, 10081 (telephone number: (212) 552-5164).
 
Fossil is a design, development, marketing and distribution company that specializes in consumer products predicated on fashion and value. The Company's principle offerings include an extensive line of watches sold under the Company's propriety brands FOSSIL, RELIC and ZODIAC as well as licensed brands for some of the most prestigious companies in the world including EMPORIO ARMANI, BURBERRY, DKNY and DIESEL. The Company also offers complementary lines of small leather goods, belts, handbags, sunglasses under the FOSSIL and RELIC brands, jewelry under the FOSSIL and EMPORIO ARMANI brands and FOSSIL
apparel. The Company's products are sold in department stores and specialty retail stores in over 90 countries around the world, in addition to the Company's e-commerce website at www.fossil.com. Additionally, certain product, press release and SEC filing information concerning the Company is available on the website.
 
Contact:
Mike Kovar
Chief Financial Officer
Fossil, Inc.
(972) 699-2229
 
END OF RELEASE


