FILE:FOSL/FOSL-8K-20041005105328.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
           
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
           
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
           
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
           
 
 
Section 1  Registrant's Business and Operations
 
Item 1.01.
                 
Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
 
On September 30, 2004, Fossil Partners, L.P. (the "Borrower"), a subsidiary of Fossil, Inc. (the "Company"), the Company and certain subsidiaries of the Company, as guarantors, executed the renewal of a Loan Agreement and Revolving Line of Credit Note (the "Revolver") with Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, a national banking association ("Payee"), dated September 23, 2004, whereby Wells Fargo will provide a revolving line of credit of up to $50,000,000.  The Revolver is secured by 65% of the issued and outstanding shares of certain subsidiaries of the Company pursuant to a Stock Pledge Agreement.  The Revolver requires the maintenance of net worth, quarterly income, working capital and financial ratios.  Borrowings under the Revolver shall bear interest at the option of Borrower (i) at the LIBOR base rate plus 50 basis points, or (ii) at the lesser of (a) the higher of the bank's prime rate less 1% or 3.0%, or (b) the maximum rate allowed by law.  The Borrower may prepay the Revolver without penalty.  Wells Fargo may accelerate the note to be immediately due and payable if the Borrower fails to pay any part of the principal or interest of the Revolver, or upon an Event of Default.  The Borrower will use the proceeds for working capital needs and for general corporate purposes.  There are no borrowings currently outstanding under the Revolver.  A copy of the Loan Agreement, Revolving Line of Credit Note and Stock Pledge Agreement are filed as Exhibits 10.1, 10.2, and 10.3, respectively, to this current report on Form 8-K.
 
The foregoing descriptions of the Loan Agreement, Revolving Line of Credit Note and Stock Pledge Agreement are qualified in their entirety by the full text of each such documents, which are incorporated herein by reference.
 
Section 2  Financial Information
 
Item 2.03
                    
Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation Under an
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant.
 
See our discussion under Item 1.01 with respect to our entry into a Loan Agreement, Revolving Line of Credit Note and a Stock Pledge Agreement.
 
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Item 9.01
                    
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
Financial statements of businesses acquired.
(a)
         
 
Not applicable.
 
Pro forma financial information.
(b)
        
 
Not applicable.
 
Exhibits.
(c)
         
 
The following exhibits are furnished in accordance with the provisions of Item 601 of Regulation S-K:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
LOAN AGREEMENT
 
This Loan Agreement (the "") is entered into as of September 23, 2004, by and among , a national banking association (the ""),(the ""), (the ""), (""), (""), (""), (""), (""), ("") and ("") (the Company, Fossil Intermediate, Fossil Trust, Fossil I, Intermediate Leasing, Arrow Merchandising, Fossil Holdings and FMW are sometimes referred to herein individually as a "" and collectively as the "").
Agreement
WELLS FARGO BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
Bank
FOSSIL PARTNERS, L.P.
Borrower
FOSSIL, INC.
Company
FOSSIL INTERMEDIATE, INC.
Fossil Intermediate
FOSSIL TRUST
Fossil Trust
FOSSIL STORES I, INC.
Fossil I
INTERMEDIATE LEASING, INC.
Intermediate Leasing
ARROW MERCHANDISING, INC.
Arrow Merchandising
FOSSIL HOLDINGS, LLC
Fossil Holdings
FMW ACQUISITION, INC.
FMW
Guarantor
Guarantors
 
R E C I T A L S
 
WHEREAS, the Borrower and the Guarantors have requested that the Bank make available to the Borrower a revolving line of credit of up to $50,000,000 and the Bank has agreed to do so subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein.
 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing, the Bank's making the following described loans, the mutual covenants herein contained and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged by each of the parties hereto, the Bank, the Borrower and the Guarantors agree as follows:
 
A G R E E M E N T
 
1.
            
The Line of Credit
.  Subject to, and upon the terms, conditions, covenants and agreements contained herein and in the Revolving Note (as hereinafter defined), the Bank agrees to loan the Borrower, at any time, and from time to time prior to the maturity of the Revolving Note, such amounts as the Borrower may request, up to but not exceeding at any time, the aggregate principal amount of $50,000,000 (the ""); within such limits and during such period, the Borrower may borrow, repay, and re-borrow hereunder (the "").  All loans under the Line of Credit shall be evidenced by the a Revolving Line of Credit Note (the ""), substantially in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, executed by the Borrower and payable to the order of the Bank, and bearing interest upon the terms provided therein (but in no event to exceed the maximum non-usurious interest rate permitted by law).  The principal of, and interest on, the Revolving Note shall be due and payable as provided in the Revolving Note.  Notation by the Bank on its records shall constitute prima facie evidence of the amount and date of any payment or borrowing thereunder.
Total Commitment
Line of Credit
Revolving Note
 
(a)
          
Renewals and Extensions
.  All renewals, extensions, modifications and rearrangements of the Revolving Note, if any, shall be deemed to be made pursuant to this Agreement, and accordingly, shall be subject to the terms and provisions hereof, and the Borrower and the Guarantors shall be deemed to have ratified, as of such renewal,
 
extension, modification or rearrangement date, all of the representations, covenants and agreements herein set forth.
 
(b)
          
Letters of Credit
.  Advances under the Line of Credit may be utilized by the Borrower to fund drawings under any Documentary or Stand-by Letters of Credit (as hereinafter defined) that are issued by the Bank for the account of the Borrower.  In the event the Borrower fails to reimburse the Bank for any such drawings, the Bank may, in its own discretion, advance funds under the Line of Credit to fund such drawings and all such advances shall be added to the principal amount of the Revolving Note.
 
2.
            
Documentary and Stand-by Letters of Credit
.  Subject to the terms and conditions contained herein, the Bank shall (a) from time to time, at the request of the Borrower, issue documentary or stand-by letters of credit to Borrower's or its subsidiaries' vendors for the acquisition of inventory for the Borrower or its subsidiaries (the "") and (b) issue a stand-by letter of credit in an aggregate amount up to 400,000,000 in favor of any Japanese domestic bank for the account of the Borrower (the "") (the Inventory Acquisition Letters of Credit and the JDB Letter of Credit are hereinafter collectively referred to as the "").  The fees for issuance of all Inventory Acquisition Letters of Credit shall be in accordance with the Bank's schedule of fees for issuance of letters of credit existing as of the time of issuance.  No fees shall be charged directly by the Bank to the Borrower in connection with the issuance of the JDB Letter of Credit.  Immediately upon issuance, the undrawn face amount of any such Documentary and Stand-by Letters of Credit shall be considered in computing the amount of funds available to the Borrower under the Line of Credit, as provided in hereof.  The Bank shall not be obligated to: (w) issue any Documentary or Stand-by Letter of Credit for the account of the Borrower or its subsidiaries if the issuance of same would cause the Outstanding Revolving Credit to exceed the Total Commitment; (x) issue any Documentary or Stand-by Letter of Credit with an expiration date that is more than one hundred eighty (180) days after the maturity date of the Revolving Note; (y) extend the expiration date of any Documentary or Stand-by Letter of Credit to a date that is more than one hundred eighty (180) days after the maturity date of the Revolving Note; or (z) issue any Documentary or Stand-by Letter of Credit if the face amount of such letter of credit, combined with the aggregate undrawn face amount of all other Documentary and Stand-by Letters of Credit then outstanding, would exceed $50,000,000.  If any Documentary or Stand-by Letters of Credit are outstanding on the maturity date of the Revolving Note, the Borrower shall deposit with the Bank, as cash collateral, an amount equal to the undrawn face amount of all such Documentary or Stand-by Letters of Credit then outstanding (such cash collateral to be maintained in a deposit account at the Bank pursuant to documentation in form and substance mutually acceptable to the Borrower and the Bank (the "")).  The Cash Collateral Account shall be in the name of Borrower, and shall be pledged to, and subject to the control of, the Bank in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.  The Borrower hereby pledges and grants to the Bank a security interest in all such funds held in the Cash Collateral Account from time to time and all proceeds thereof, as security for the payment of any drawings under any and all such Documentary or Stand-by Letters of Credit.
Inventory Acquisition Letters of Credit
JDB Letter of Credit
Documentary or Stand-by Letters of Credit
Section 5
Cash Collateral Account
 
[Intentionally Deleted]
3.
            
 
4.
            
Use of Proceeds
.  The proceeds of the Line of Credit shall be used for the Borrower's working capital needs and for general corporate purposes.  No part of the proceeds received hereunder will be used, directly or indirectly, for the purpose of purchasing or carrying, or the payment in full or in part, of indebtedness which was incurred for the purposes of purchasing or carrying margin of stock, as such term is defined in Regulation U of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, as now or from time to time hereinafter in effect.
 
5.
            
Availability
.
 
(a)
          
Revolving Note
.  The aggregate principal amount at any time outstanding under the Revolving Note, one hundred percent (100%) of the face amount of the JDB Letter of Credit (calculated by reference to the amount of United States of America dollars into which the Bank determines it could, in accordance with its practice from time to time in the interbank foreign exchange market, convert such amount of Yen at its spot rate of exchange in effect at approximately 8:00 a.m. (Dallas, Texas time) on the date of determination), one hundred percent (100%) of the face amount of all outstanding Documentary and Stand-by Letters of Credit (other than the JDB Letter of Credit) issued for the account of the Borrower, one hundred percent (100%) of the Bank's participation interest in all letters of credit issued for the account of the Borrower, the Company or any of their respective subsidiaries pursuant to that certain Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited Uncommitted Letter of Credit Facility, as the same may be amended, modified or extended from time to time (said sum being herein referred to as the ""), shall not at any time exceed the Total Commitment.
plus
plus
plus
Outstanding Revolving Credit
 
(b)
          
Total Commitment Compliance
.  In the event the Outstanding Revolving Credit at any time exceeds the Total Commitment, then, upon notice from the Bank to the Borrower, the Borrower shall immediately make such payments to the Bank as are necessary to reduce the Outstanding Revolving Credit to an amount such that the Outstanding Revolving Credit is less than or equal to the Total Commitment.
 
6.
            
Advances
.  Advances under the Line of Credit may be made by written or facsimile request signed by an authorized officer of the Borrower or by telephone oral request or electronic request by an authorized officer of the Borrower (unless such authority for telephone oral request, electronic or facsimile request is revoked in writing by an authorized officer of the Borrower, and such revocation is actually received by the Bank (the "")), provided that any such advance shall be deposited in an account of the Borrower.  In consideration of the Bank's permitting the Borrower to make telephone oral requests, electronic and facsimile requests for advances under the Revolving Note until Revocation, the Borrower covenants and agrees to assume liability for and to protect, indemnify and hold harmless the Bank, its predecessors, agents, officers, directors, employees, successors and assigns (individually and collectively, an "") from any and all liabilities, obligations, damages, penalties, claims, causes of action, costs, charges and expenses, including attorneys' fees and expenses of employees, which may be imposed, incurred by or asserted against any Indemnified Party by reason of any loss, damage or claim howsoever arising or incurred because of or out of or in
Revocation
Indemnified Party
connection with (i) any action of any Indemnified Party pursuant to telephone oral requests, electronic requests or facsimile requests for advances under the Line of Credit, (ii) the breach of any provisions of this Agreement by the Borrower, (iii) the transfer of funds pursuant to such telephone oral requests, electronic requests or facsimile requests, or (iv) any Indemnified Party's honoring or failing to honor any telephone oral request, electronic request or facsimile request for any reason.  The Bank is entitled to rely upon and act upon telephone oral requests, electronic requests and facsimile requests made or purportedly made by any of the officers or employees specified in the resolutions delivered to the Bank of even date herewith, as supplemented in writing from time to time and accepted by the Bank, and the Borrower shall be unconditionally and absolutely estopped from denying (i) the authenticity and validity of any such transaction so acted upon by the Bank once the Bank has advanced funds under the Line of Credit and deposited or transferred such funds as requested in any such telephone oral request, electronic request or facsimile request, and (ii) the Borrower's liability and responsibility therefore.
 
7.
            
Payments; Prepayments
.  Any payment or prepayment of the outstanding principal amount of, or accrued interest on, the Revolving Note shall be paid at the office of the Bank designated in the Revolving Note (or at such other place or to such account as the Bank may from time to time designate in writing to the Borrower).  The Borrower shall be entitled to repay and/or prepay the outstanding principal balance of, and accrued interest on, the Revolving Note from time to time and at any time, in whole or in part, without notice or penalty of any kind, except as otherwise set forth in the Revolving Note.  The Borrower may re-borrow all or any portion of the principal amount of the Line of Credit so repaid or prepaid subject to the terms and conditions the Revolving Note and this Agreement (including, without limitation, hereof).  All payments and prepayments on the Revolving Note shall be applied first to accrued interest and then to principal in the order of maturity.  No prepayment shall relieve the Borrower of the obligation to pay the principal and interest on the Revolving Note until such time as all obligations are paid in full.
Section 5(a)
 
8.
            
Collateral for the Loans
.  The Line of Credit shall be secured by the collateral described in the Stock Pledge Agreement (as hereinafter defined) and, if applicable, by the cash collateral maintained in the Cash Collateral Account.  Except as specifically provided in the preceding sentence or as contemplated by hereof, the Line of Credit shall be unsecured.
Section 12(m)
 
9.
            
Conditions Precedent to Initial Loans
.  The Borrower shall execute and deliver, or cause to be executed and delivered, to the Bank the following described documents:
 
(a)
          
In connection with and as a condition precedent to the Bank's obligation to make initial advances under the Line of Credit or otherwise extend any credit accommodations hereunder, the Borrower shall execute and deliver to the Bank, or cause to be executed and delivered to the Bank, the following documents and instruments, each of which shall be in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank (and the Bank shall have no obligation to make initial advances under the Line of Credit or otherwise extend any credit accommodations hereunder until each of said documents and instruments are so executed and delivered to the Bank):
(i)
           
This Agreement;
 
(ii)
          
The Revolving Note;
 
(iii)
         
A Guaranty Agreement, duly executed by each of the Guarantors, pursuant to which the Guarantors shall guarantee the prompt payment and performance by the Borrower of its obligations hereunder (collectively, the "");
Guaranty Agreement
 
(iv)
         
A Stock Pledge Agreement, duly executed by the Company, pursuant to which the Company shall pledge to the Bank, as collateral security for the Borrower's obligations to the Bank hereunder, a security interest in sixty-five percent (65%) of any and all issued and outstanding shares of stock of Fossil Europe B.V. and Fossil (East) Limited, whether now or hereafter issued by such subsidiaries of the Company (the ""); and
Stock Pledge Agreement
 
(v)
          
Ordinary and customary certificates and documents satisfactory to the Bank and its counsel.
 
(b)
          
In connection with the Bank's issuance of each Documentary or Stand-by Letter of Credit, the Borrower shall, in addition to the documents required in above, execute and deliver to the Bank a Letter of Credit Application and Agreement (herein so called), provided the Bank shall have no obligation to issue a Documentary or Stand-by Letter of Credit for the account of the Borrower until a Letter of Credit Application and Agreement has been executed by the Borrower and delivered to the Bank.
Section 9(a)
 
10.
          
Conditions Precedent to each Loan and Issuance of each Documentary or Stand-by Letter of Credit
.  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement or any other Loan Document to the contrary, it is understood and agreed that the Bank's obligation to make any advance or extension of credit hereunder on any date (including the issuance of any Documentary or Stand-by Letter of Credit) is subject to the satisfaction of the following conditions precedent:
 
(a)
          
The Borrower shall have executed and delivered, or cause to have been executed and delivered, to the Bank this Agreement and the other loan documentation referred to in and, if applicable, hereof;
Section 9
Section 12(m)
 
(b)
          
There shall have been no material adverse change in the financial condition of the Borrower, individually, or the Guarantors, taken as a whole;
 
(c)
          
There shall be no material adverse litigation, either pending or threatened, against the Borrower or any Guarantor that could reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on the Borrower, individually, or the Guarantors, taken as a whole;
(d)
          
The representations and warranties contained herein and in the other Loan Documents (as hereinafter defined) shall be true and correct on and as of such date; and
 
(e)
          
No default or event of default shall have occurred and be continuing hereunder or under any of the other Loan Documents.
 
11.
          
Representations and Warranties
.  The Borrower and each of the Guarantors hereby jointly and severally represent, warrant and covenant that:
 
(a)
          
The Borrower and each of the Guarantors is a limited partnership, corporation, limited liability company or business trust, as the case may be, duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the state, of its organization and is duly licensed, qualified to do business and in good standing in each jurisdiction in which the ownership of its property or the conduct of its business requires such licensing and qualification and where the failure to be so licensed or qualified would have a material adverse effect upon (i) its business, operations, properties, assets or condition (financial or otherwise), or (ii) its ability to perform, or of the Bank to enforce, its obligations under the Loan Documents to which it is a party.  Borrower and each of the Guarantors has all powers and all permits consents and authorizations necessary to own and operate properties and to carry on its business as presently conducted.  The execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement and the Guaranty Agreement by the Guarantors and the execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement by the Borrower, the borrowings hereunder and the execution and delivery of the Revolving Note, the Letter of Credit Applications, the Guaranty Agreement, the Stock Pledge Agreement, and the several agreements and instruments contemplated thereby, (i) have been duly authorized by proper corporate, partnership or trust proceedings, as appropriate, and (ii) will not contravene, or constitute a default under, any provision of applicable law or regulation or of the Agreement of Limited Partnership, Articles of Incorporation, By-Laws or Trust Agreement, as applicable, of the Borrower or any Guarantor, or of any mortgage, indenture, contract, agreement or other instrument, or any judgment, order or decree, binding upon the Borrower or any Guarantor.  To the best of Borrower's and Guarantors' knowledge, no consent or authorization of, filing with or other act by or in respect of, any governmental authority or any other person (other than the Bank) is required in connection with the borrowings hereunder or with the execution, delivery, performance, validity or enforceability of any of the Loan Documents, except for such consents, authorizations, filings or acts as have been obtained, filed or taken by the Borrower and the Guarantors prior to the date hereof.  This Agreement, the Revolving Note, the Letter of Credit Applications, the Guaranty Agreement, the Stock Pledge Agreement, and any other agreements, documents and instruments contemplated herein and thereby, or in any way related thereto whether executed simultaneously herewith or hereafter (all of same being hereinafter sometimes called the ""), when duly executed and delivered in accordance with this Agreement, will each constitute a legal, valid and binding obligation of each of the Borrower and the Guarantors, if a party thereto, enforceable against each such party in accordance with its respective terms.
Loan Documents
(b)
          
The audited balance sheet of the Company at January 3, 2004, the related statement of income and retained earnings for the period then ended, copies of which have been delivered to the Bank, accurately represent the financial position of the Company at January 3, 2004, and the results of its operations for the periods then ended materially prepared in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles applied on a basis consistent with the preceding year.  No material adverse change has occurred since January 3, 2004 position or in the results of operations of the Company or in its business.
 
(c)
          
No approvals or consents of any governmental department, administrative agency or instrumentality having jurisdiction over the Borrower or any Guarantor are necessary to permit the Borrower or any Guarantor to enter into the Loan Documents to which it is a party, except for such approvals and covenants as have been obtained.
 
(d)
          
There is no action, suit or proceeding pending or, to the knowledge of the Borrower or any Guarantor, threatened against the Borrower or any Guarantor or the Collateral (hereinafter defined) before any court, governmental department, administrative agency or instrumentality which, if such action, suit or proceeding were adversely determined, would materially affect the financial position or the results of operations of the Borrower or any Guarantor or its business or the ability of the Borrower or any Guarantor to perform its obligations under the Loan Documents.
 
(e)
          
To the best of the Company's management's knowledge, no default or Event of Default (hereinafter defined) has occurred and is continuing.
 
(f)
           
To the best of the Company's management's knowledge, each of the Borrower and the Guarantors has good and indefeasible title to all of its assets and properties, free and clear of all security interests, mortgages, liens or encumbrances, except as otherwise permitted under this Agreement.
 
(g)
          
Neither the Borrower nor any Guarantor is an investment company within the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940.
 
(h)
          
To the best of the Company's management's knowledge, each of the Borrower and the Guarantors has filed all United States federal returns and all material State and foreign tax returns required to be filed by it and paid all sums required thereby to the extent the same have become due and before they may have become delinquent in accordance with such returns, or is contesting the payment of same diligently and in good faith before the proper taxing authority.  To the best of the Company's management's knowledge, all other material tax returns required to be filed by the Borrower and the Guarantors with any taxing jurisdiction have been filed and all tax liabilities shown thereon to be due have been paid to the extent the same have become due and before they may have become delinquent in accordance with such returns, or the payment of such tax liabilities is being contested diligently and in good faith before the proper taxing authority, and such returns properly reflect the taxes of the Borrower and the Guarantors, as applicable, for the periods covered thereby in all material respects.
(i)
           
Borrower and each Guarantor (a) is solvent and will continue to be solvent after giving effect to the transactions contemplated hereunder, and (b) is able to pay its debts as they mature and has (and has reason to believe it will continue to have) sufficient capital (and not unreasonably small capital) to carry on its business and all businesses in which it is about to engage.  The assets and properties of Borrower and each Guarantor at a fair valuation and at their present fair salable value are, and will be, greater than the indebtedness of Borrower and each such Guarantor, respectively (including subordinated and contingent liabilities computed at the amount which, to the best of the Company's management's knowledge, represents an amount which can reasonably be expected to become an actual or matured liability).
 
12.
          
Affirmative Covenants
.  The Borrower and the Company hereby agree that, at all times during the term of this Agreement and until payment and performance in full of the Revolving Note, unless the Borrower receives prior written approval of a deviation therefrom from the Bank, the Borrower and the Company shall, and except in the case of delivery of financial information, reports and notices, shall cause each of the Guarantors to:
 
(a)
          
Annual Financial Statements
.  Furnish the Bank, within one hundred (100) days after the end of each fiscal year of the Company, (i) a copy of the Company's audited consolidated financial statements, consisting of at least a balance sheet and related statement of income, retained earnings and changes in financial condition of the Company prepared in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles, applied on a basis consistent with that of the preceding year, and certified by an independent certified public accountant selected by the Company and reasonably satisfactory to the Bank, (ii) a copy of the consolidating financial statements of the Company prepared by the Company, and (iii) a copy of the Form 10-K of the Company for such fiscal year.
 
(b)
          
Quarterly Financial Statements
.  Furnish the Bank, upon request, within fifty (50) days after the end of any fiscal quarter of the Company during the term hereof, (i) a copy of its unaudited consolidating financial statements for such fiscal quarter, consisting of at least a balance sheet and related statement of income, materially prepared in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles and certified by an authorized officer of the Company, and (ii) a copy of the Form 10-Q of the Company for such fiscal quarter.
 
(c)
          
Compliance Certificate
.  Furnish the Bank, concurrently with the delivery of the financial statements required to be delivered pursuant to clauses (a) and (b) above, a Compliance Certificate in a form similar to the Compliance Certificate attached hereto as , but including all representations and warranties to the satisfaction of the Bank, signed by an authorized officer of the Borrower and the Company.
Exhibit B
 
(d)
          
Accounts Receivable Agings, Accounts Payable Agings and Inventory Summaries
.  Furnish the Bank, within ten (10) days of any request by the Bank, accounts receivable agings, accounts payable agings and/or inventory summaries in form and detail acceptable to the Bank.
(e)
          
Insurance
.  Maintain and keep in full force and effect insurance of the kinds customarily carried or maintained by persons of established reputation engaged in similar lines of business to that of the Borrower and Company, with all such insurance to be carried in amounts and provided by insurance companies reasonably acceptable to the Bank.  The Borrower and the Company agree to deliver to the Bank from time to time at the Bank's request schedules setting forth all insurance then in effect.
 
(f)
           
Taxes
.  Pay and discharge all material taxes, assessments and governmental charges or levies imposed on it or on its income or profits or on any of its property prior to the date on which such taxes, assessments and governmental charges or levies become due and payable; , , that neither the Borrower nor any Guarantor shall be required to pay and discharge or cause to be paid and discharged any such taxes, assessments and governmental charges or levies if (and for so long as) the validity or amount thereof are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings diligently pursued and appropriate reserves have been provided therefor; , , that the Borrower and each of the Guarantors shall, in any event, pay and discharge all material taxes, assessments and governmental charges or levies imposed on it or on its income or profits or on any of its property prior to the fifteenth (15) day following the date that any liens securing same are filed of public record.
provided
however
provided further
however
th
 
(g)
          
Litigation
.  Promptly give notice to the Bank of all litigation and all proceedings before governmental or regulatory agencies affecting the Borrower or any Guarantor except litigation or proceedings that could not reasonably be expected to have material adverse effect upon the financial condition of the Borrower, individually, or the Guarantors, taken as a whole.
 
(h)
          
Further Assurances
.  At any time and from time to time, execute and deliver such further instruments and take such further action as may reasonably be requested by the Bank, in order to cure any defects in the execution and delivery of, or to comply with or accomplish the covenants and agreements contained in the Loan Documents.
 
(i)
           
Books and Records
.  Make available to the Bank during normal business hours at the Borrower's main office its books and records, including, but not limited to, the subsidiary journals, accounts receivable files, inventory records, general ledger, and correspondence files.  The Bank shall have the right to examine its collateral at any reasonable time without prior notice.
 
(j)
           
Existence
.  Continue to be a limited partnership, corporation, limited liability company or business trust, as the case may be, duly organized and existing in good standing under the law of the jurisdiction under which it is organized and continue to be duly licensed or qualified as a foreign limited partnership, corporation, limited liability company or business trust, as the case may be, in all jurisdictions wherein the character of the property owned or leased by it or the nature of the business transacted by it makes licensing or qualification necessary by a foreign limited partnership, corporation,
limited liability company or business trust, as the case may be, except where the failure to be so licensed or qualified would not have a material adverse affect on its business or operations taken as a whole.
 
(k)
          
Expenses
.  Pay reasonable expenses, including reasonable legal expenses and attorney's fees, of the Bank which have been or may be incurred by the Bank in connection with the preparation of this Agreement and the lending and incurring of obligations or liabilities hereunder, the collection of any note authorized hereby, or for the enforcement of the Borrower's or any Guarantor's obligations hereunder and under any document executed to secure the payment of any note authorized hereunder and for the recording and filing and recording and refiling of any such document.
 
(l)
           
Default; Name Change; Casualty
.  Give notice to the Bank in writing of the occurrence of any default or Event of Default under this Agreement, any change in name, identity or structure of the Borrower or any Guarantor, and any uninsured or partially uninsured loss in excess of $5,000,000 through fire, theft, liability or property damage.
 
(m)
         
Domestic Subsidiary Guarantees/Stock Pledges
.  At the discretion of the Company, either (i) cause each majority-owned subsidiary of the Company or the Borrower which is incorporated or formed in the United States of America and which owns or holds tangible assets having an aggregate book value of $50,000,000 or more (each, a "") to execute a Guaranty Agreement in the form of attached hereto, or (ii) pledge to the Bank, as collateral security for the Borrower's obligations to the Bank hereunder, a security interest in one hundred percent (100%) of the stock of each such Significant Domestic Subsidiary which is owned by the Borrower or the Company by executing a Stock Pledge Agreement in the form of attached hereto.
Significant Domestic Subsidiary
Exhibit A
Exhibit B
 
13.
          
Negative Covenants
.  The Borrower and the Guarantors hereby agree that, at all times during the term of this Agreement and until payment and performance in full of the Revolving Note, unless the Borrower receives prior written approval of a deviation therefrom from the Bank, the Borrower and the Guarantors shall not directly or indirectly:
 
(a)
          
Debt
.  Create, incur, assume or suffer to exist any debt for borrowed money, whether by way of loan, or the issuance or sale of bonds, debentures, notes or securities, including deferred debt for the purchase price of assets, except for (i) the loans described herein, (ii) revolving credit loans in an aggregate principal amount of up to 400,000,000 from any Japanese domestic bank, the only security for such revolving credit loans shall be the JDB Letter of Credit, (iii) loans from one or more Guarantors to the Borrower or another Guarantor, so long as the indebtedness in respect of such loans is unsecured and fully subordinated to the indebtedness owing to the Bank pursuant to a written subordination agreement in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, (iv) current accounts payable and other current obligations (other than for borrowed
provided
that
money) arising out of transactions in the ordinary course of business and (v) indebtedness or obligations permitted pursuant to hereof.
Section 13 (b)
 
(b)
          
Liabilities
.  Assume, guarantee, endorse, suffer to exist or otherwise become liable upon, or agree to purchase or otherwise furnish funds for the payment of, the obligations of any person, firm or corporation, except for
 
(i)
           
the obligations hereunder;
 
(ii)
          
endorsement of negotiable instruments for deposit or collection or similar transactions in the ordinary course of business;
 
(iii)
         
obligations under operating leases;
 
(iv)
         
obligations for indebtedness secured by purchase money liens not to exceed $10,000,000 in the aggregate at any time outstanding;
 
(v)
          
obligations under foreign currency exchange contracts, so long as such obligations are incurred in the ordinary course of its business;
 
(vi)
         
indebtedness to shareholders, officers or partners, so long as such indebtedness is unsecured, fully subordinated to the indebtedness owing to the Bank in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, and evidenced by debt instruments satisfactory in form and substance to the Bank;
 
(vii)
        
obligations under guaranties securing indebtedness not to exceed $10,000,000 in the aggregate at any time outstanding; and
 
(viii)
       
any other unsecured indebtedness which is subordinated to the indebtedness owing to the Bank pursuant to a written subordination agreement in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
 
(c)
          
Encumbrances
.  Create, incur, assume or suffer to exist any mortgage, deed of trust, pledge, encumbrance, lien or security interest of any kind, upon any of its property now owned or hereafter acquired, except (i) liens, mortgages, encumbrances or security interest to secure payment of the borrowings authorized hereunder; (ii) pledges or deposits to secure obligations under workmen's compensation laws or of similar legislation; (iii) deposits to secure public or statutory obligations; (iv) statutory mechanics', carriers', workmen's, repairmen's liens or other like items in the ordinary course of business in respect to obligations which are not overdue or are being contested in good faith; (v) existing liens disclosed to the Bank in writing prior to the date of this Agreement or otherwise consented to in writing by the Bank; (vi) liens for taxes, assessments or other governmental charges or levies not yet due or liens which are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings for sums not exceeding $100,000 in the aggregate; (vii) legal or equitable encumbrances not in excess of $1,000,000 in the aggregate deemed to exist by reason of the existence of any litigation or other legal
proceeding or arising out of a judgment or award with respect to which an appeal is being prosecuted; and (viii) liens securing purchase money indebtedness permitted under hereof.
Section 13(b)(iv)
 
(d)
          
Purchase of Assets and Investments; Consolidations, Mergers and Sales of Assets
.  Form any new subsidiary or merge or invest in or consolidate with any corporation or other entity, or sell, lease, assign, transfer, or otherwise dispose of (whether in one transaction or as a series of related transactions) all or substantially all of its assets, whether now owned or hereafter acquired; or acquire by purchase or otherwise, all or substantially all of the assets of any corporation or other entity; , , that (i) the Borrower and the Company may form new subsidiaries, so long as (A) the Borrower or the Company provides the Bank with prior written notice of such formation and (B) the Borrower and the Company comply with their obligations pursuant to hereof, and (ii) the Company may merge or consolidate one or more of its wholly-owned subsidiaries (other than the Borrower) with or into (A) the Company (provided that the Company shall be the surviving corporation) or (B) any one or more of its wholly-owned subsidiaries, (iii) the Company may merge or consolidate one or more of its wholly-owned subsidiaries with or into the Borrower (provided that the Borrower shall be the surviving corporation), and (iv) the Company or the Borrower may invest in or acquire by purchase or otherwise, all or substantially all of the assets of any corporation or other entity, so long as (A) the consideration utilized by the Company or the Borrower to effect any such investment or acquisition consists solely of cash and/or capital stock of the Company or any subsidiary of the Company and (B) no default or Event of Default then exists or would exist after giving effect to such investment or acquisition.
provided
however
Section 12(m)
 
(e)
          
Business
.  Change the nature of its business or engage in a kind of business different from that which it presently conducts.
 
(f)
           
Loans to Officers
.  Make any loans or advances to its shareholders or officers in excess of $500,000 to any individual officer or shareholder or $2,000,000 in the aggregate to all officers and shareholders.
 
14.
          
Financial Covenants
.  The Company covenants and agrees that, at all times during the term of this Agreement and until payment and performance in full of the Revolving Note, the Company will, on a consolidated basis:
 
(a)
          
Quick Ratio
.  Maintain, at all times, a ratio of (i) (A) cash, (B) cash equivalents, (C) account receivables to (ii) current liabilities of not less than 1.0 to 1.0.  Cash, cash equivalents, accounts receivable and current liabilities are defined according to generally accepted accounting principles, with the exception that current liabilities will include all indebtedness of the Borrower under the Revolving Note.
plus
plus
 
(b)
          
[Intentionally Deleted]
 
(c)
          
Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio
.  Maintain a ratio of Cash Flow to Fixed Charges of not less than 2.0 to 1.0 throughout the term hereof.  "" is defined as
Cash Flow
the Company's net income, plus depreciation and amortization, plus interest expense, plus rental expense, all on a consolidated basis, and each determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.  "" is defined as the Company's current portion of long-term debt and capitalized leases, plus interest expense, plus rental expense, plus dividends, all on a consolidated basis, and each determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.  Cash Flow and Fixed Charges shall be determined as of the end of the immediately preceding fiscal quarter for the twelve-month period ended as of the end of such fiscal quarter for which the determination is being made (i.e., on a rolling four-quarter basis).
Fixed Charges
 
(d)
          
Minimum Net Income
.  Achieve net income of not less than $5,000,000 for each fiscal quarter of the Company, commencing with the fiscal quarter ending October 2, 2004 (with net income to be determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles).
 
15.
          
Default
.  The Borrower shall be in default hereunder if any one of the following events of default ("") shall occur and be continuing, namely:
Events of Default
 
(a)
          
The Borrower, any Guarantor or any other party to the Loan Documents shall fail to pay, when due, any sums owing to the Bank; or
 
(b)
          
The Borrower, any Guarantor or any other party to the Loan Documents shall fail to pay, when due, any sums owing to others for borrowed money or the deferred payment of goods or services (excluding trade payables) in excess of $5,000,000 (hereinafter referred to as "") or if the holder of any such Other Indebtedness declares or may declare such Other Indebtedness due prior to the stated maturity because of any default thereunder; or
Other Indebtedness
 
(c)
          
Any representation, statement, warranty, projection, or certificate made by the Borrower or any Guarantor in the Loan Documents, or in any agreement, document or instrument executed pursuant hereto or concurrently herewith, or hereafter furnished to the Bank in connection with any loan or loans hereunder, shall prove to have been incorrect in any material respect at the time of making or issuance thereof; or
 
(d)
          
The Borrower or any Guarantor, as applicable, shall fail or neglect to perform, keep or observe any covenant contained in , , or hereof on the date that the Borrower or any such Guarantor, as applicable, is required to perform, keep or observe such covenant; or
Section 12(i)
12(j)
12(l),
13
14
 
(e)
          
The Company shall fail or neglect to perform, keep or observe any covenant contained in of the Stock Pledge Agreement on the date that the Company is required to perform, keep or observe such covenant; or
Section 3
 
(f)
           
The Borrower, any Guarantor or any other party to the Loan Documents shall fail or neglect to perform, keep or observe any covenant or agreements set forth in the Loan Documents or in any other agreement, document or instrument executed
pursuant hereto (other than a covenant or agreement the performance of which is dealt with specifically elsewhere in this ), and such default is not cured to the Bank's satisfaction within thirty (30) days of the occurrence thereof; provided, however, that the provisions of this Agreement shall control in the event that any of such provisions are in conflict with the provisions of any other agreement, mortgage, indenture or instrument executed pursuant hereto and all of such provisions in such other instruments shall be deemed to be cumulative of the provisions hereof to the extent such provisions are not inconsistent herewith; or
Section 15
 
(g)
          
The Borrower, any Guarantor or any other party to the Loan Documents shall apply for or consent to, or acquiesce in the appointment of a receiver, trustee, or liquidator of itself or himself or of its or his property, or admit in writing its or his inability to pay its or his debts as they mature, or make a general assignment for the benefit of creditors or an Order of Relief be entered with respect to the Borrower, any guarantor or any other party to the Loan Documents by any court having competent jurisdiction in the premises, or file a voluntary petition in bankruptcy or a petition or answer seeking reorganization, composition, readjustment or arrangement, or similar relief with creditors, under any present or future statute, law or regulation, or otherwise, or take advantage of any insolvency law or file an answer admitting the material allegations of a petition filed against it or him in bankruptcy, reorganization, or insolvency proceedings, or corporate action shall be taken by it or him for the purpose of effecting any of the foregoing, or it or he shall have a receiver or trustee or assignee in bankruptcy or insolvency appointed for it or him, or its or his property, without its or his application or consent.
 
Upon the occurrence and during the continuance of any Event of Default (other than an Event of Default specified in Section 15 (g) above), the obligation of the Bank to make any advance or extend any credit hereunder (including the issuance of Documentary or Stand-by Letters of Credit) to or for the account of the Borrower shall, upon notice by the Bank to the Borrower, immediately terminate and the Bank shall be entitled to each and every remedy and to take each and every action permitted by the Loan Documents.  Upon the occurrence and during the continuance of any Event of Default specified in Section 15 (g) above, the obligation of the Bank to make any advance or extend any credit hereunder (including the issuance of Documentary or Stand-by Letters of Credit) to or for the account of the Borrower shall automatically terminate, all indebtedness, liabilities and obligations of the Borrower to the Bank under this Agreement and the other Loan Documents shall immediately become due and payable (without presentment, demand, protest or other or other notice of any kind, all of which are waived by the Borrower and the Guarantors) and the Bank shall be entitled to each and every remedy and to take each and every action permitted by the Loan Documents.
 
16.
          
Notice
.  All notices required or permitted hereunder shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been given or made as follows:  (a) if sent by hand delivery, upon delivery; (b) if sent by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, upon receipt (as indicated on the return receipt); and (c) if sent by facsimile, upon receipt (which shall be confirmed by a confirmation report from the sender's facsimile machine), addressed to the parties at their
respective addresses set forth below or such other address as any such party may from time to time designate by written notice to the other:
 
 
17.
          
Waiver
.  No failure to exercise and no delay in exercising on the part of the Bank of any right, power or privilege hereunder, shall operate as a waiver thereof; nor shall any single or partial exercise of any right, power or privilege hereunder, preclude any other or further exercise thereof, or the exercise of any other right, power or privilege.  The rights and remedies herein provided are cumulative and not exclusive of any rights or remedies provided by law or in any other agreement.
 
18.
          
Survival of Agreements
.  All agreements, representations and warranties herein made shall survive the execution and delivery of the Revolving Note, and the making and renewal thereof.
 
19.
          
Amendment
.  This Agreement may not be amended except in writing signed by the Borrower, the Guarantors and the Bank.
 
20.
          
Successors
.  This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the Borrower, the Guarantors, the Bank and the successors and assigns of each party hereto.
21.
          
Severability
.  In the case any one or more of the provisions contained in the Loan Documents should be invalid, illegal, or unenforceable, in any respect, the validity, legality, and enforceability of the remaining provisions contained therein shall not in any way be affected thereby.
 
22.
          
Interest
.  It is the intention of the parties hereto to comply with the laws of the State of Texas accordingly, it is agreed that notwithstanding any provisions to the contrary in the Loan Documents, in no event shall said Loan Documents require the payment or permit the collection of interest, as defined under the laws of the State of Texas, in excess of the maximum amount permitted by such laws.  If any such excess of interest is contracted for, charged or received, under the Loan Documents, or in the event the maturity of the indebtedness evidenced by the Revolving Note or is accelerated in whole or in part, or in the event that all or part of the principal or interest of the Revolving Note shall be prepaid, so that under any of such circumstances the amount of interest contracted for, charged, or received under the Loan Documents on the amount of principal actually outstanding from time to time thereunder shall exceed the maximum amount of interest permitted by the laws of the State of Texas, then in any such event (a) the provisions of this section shall govern and control, (b) neither the Borrower nor any other person or entity now or hereafter liable for the payment of the Revolving Note shall be obligated to pay the amount of such interest to the extent that it is in excess of the maximum amount of interest permitted to be contracted for by, charged to or received from the party obligated thereon under the laws of the State of Texas, (c) any such excess which may have been collected shall be either applied as a credit against the then unpaid principal amount on the Revolving Note or refunded to the person paying the same, at the holder's option, and (d) the effective rate of interest shall be automatically reduced to the maximum lawful rate of interest permitted to be contracted for by, charged to or received from the party obligated thereon under the laws of the State of Texas as now or hereafter construed by the courts having jurisdiction thereof.  It is further agreed that without limitation of the foregoing, all calculations of the rate of interest contracted for, charged or received under the Loan Documents, for the purpose of determining whether such rate exceeds the maximum lawful rate of interest, shall be made, to the extent permitted by the laws of the State of Texas, by amortizing, prorating, allocating and spreading in equal parts during the period of the full stated terms of the Revolving Note all interest at any time contracted for, charged or received from the undersigned or otherwise by the holder or holders thereof in connection with such Revolving Note.  To the extent that Chapter 1D of Article 5069 of the Texas Revised Civil Statutes is relevant to the Bank for the purpose of determining the maximum rate of interest, the Bank hereby elects to determine the applicable rate ceiling under such Article by the weekly rate ceiling from time to time in effect, subject to Bank's right subsequently to change such method in accordance with applicable law, as the same may be amended or modified from time to time.
 
23.
          
Participations, Etc
.  The Borrower expressly recognizes and agrees that, so long as the total indebtedness of the Borrower to the Bank is $50,000,000 or less, upon the mutual consent of the Borrower and the Bank (unless an Event of Default has occurred hereunder in which case no consent of the Borrower shall be necessary), the Bank may sell to other lenders participations in the loans incurred by the Borrower pursuant hereto.  The Borrower expressly recognizes and agrees that, if the total indebtedness of the Borrower to the Bank is more than
$50,000,000, the Bank, without the consent of the Borrower, may sell to other lenders participations in the loans incurred by the Borrower pursuant hereto.  Therefore, as security for the due payment and performance of all indebtedness and other liabilities and obligations of the Borrower to the Bank under the Loan Documents and any other obligation of the Borrower to the Bank, whether now existing or hereafter arising, and to such lenders arising now by reason of such participations or otherwise, the Borrower hereby grants to the Bank and to such lenders, a lien on and security interest in any and all deposits or other sums at any time credited by or due from the Bank and such lenders or either or any of them to the Borrower, whether in regular or special depository accounts or otherwise, and any and all monies, securities and other property of the Borrower, and the proceeds thereof now or hereafter held or received by or in transit to the Bank and such lenders or either or any of them, from or for the Borrower whether for safekeeping, custody, pledge, transmission, collection or otherwise and any such deposit, sums, monies securities and other property may at any time after Default be set-off, appropriated and applied by the Bank and by such lenders, or either or any of them, against any indebtedness, liabilities or other obligations, whether now existing or hereafter arising, of the Borrower or any of them, under this Agreement, the Revolving Note, or otherwise whether or not such indebtedness, liabilities or other obligation is then due or secured by any indebtedness, liabilities or other obligation is then due or secured by any collateral or if it is so secured whether or not such collateral held by the Bank or such lenders is considered to be adequate.
 
24.
          
This Agreement is being executed and delivered, and is intended to be performed in the State of Texas.  Except to the extent that the laws of the United States may apply to the terms hereof, the substantive laws of the State of Texas shall govern the validity, construction, enforcement and interpretation of this Agreement. In the event of a dispute involving this Guaranty or any other instruments executed in connection herewith, the undersigned irrevocably agrees that venue for such dispute shall lie in any court of competent jurisdiction in Dallas County, Texas to the extent such dispute is not resolved by binding arbitration pursuant to the Bank's current Arbitration Program described in below.
paragraph 28
 
25.
          
Judgment Currency
.
 
(a)
          
If, for the purposes of obtaining judgment in any court, it is necessary to convert a sum due hereunder or under the Revolving Note from a currency (the "
Original Currency
") into another currency (the ""), the parties hereto agree, to the fullest extent that they may effectively do so, that the rate of exchange used shall be the rate of exchange prevailing on the business day immediately preceding the day on which final judgment is given.
Other Currency
 
(b)
          
The obligation of the Borrower in respect of any sum due in the Original Currency from it to Bank hereunder or under the Revolving Note shall, notwithstanding any judgment in any Other Currency, be discharged only if and to the extent that on the business day following receipt by Bank of any sum adjudged to be so due in such Other Currency Bank may in accordance with normal banking procedures purchase such amount of the Original Currency with such Other Currency at the rate of exchange prevailing on the business day preceding the day on which the final judgment referred to
in is given; if the amount of the Original Currency so purchased is less than the amount of the Original Currency which the Bank could have purchased at the rate of exchange prevailing on the business day preceding the day on which such final judgment is given, the Borrower agrees, as a separate obligation of the Borrower to the Bank and notwithstanding any such judgment, to indemnify Bank against such difference, and if the amount of the Original Currency so purchased exceeds the amount of the Original Currency which the Bank could have purchased at the rate of exchange prevailing on the business day preceding the day on which such final judgment is given, Bank agrees to remit to the Borrower such excess.
Section 25 (a)
 
26.
          
[Intentionally Deleted]
 
27.
          
NOTICE
:  THIS AGREEMENT AND ALL OTHER DOCUMENTS RELATING TO THE INDEBTEDNESS CONSTITUTE A WRITTEN LOAN AGREEMENT WHICH REPRESENTS THE FINAL AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE PARTIES AND MAY NOT BE CONTRADICTED BY EVIDENCE OF PRIOR, CONTEMPORANEOUS OR SUBSEQUENT ORAL AGREEMENTS OF THE PARTIES.  THERE ARE NO UNWRITTEN ORAL AGREEMENTS BETWEEN THE PARTIES RELATING TO THE INDEBTEDNESS.
 
28.
          
AGREEMENT FOR BINDING ARBITRATION.
  The parties agree to be bound by the terms and provisions of the Bank's current Arbitration Program which is incorporated by reference herein and is acknowledged as received by the parties pursuant to which any and all disputes shall be resolved by mandatory binding arbitration upon the request of any party.
 
EXECUTED as of the day and year first above written.
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.2
 
 
 
FOR VALUE RECEIVED, the undersigned (hereinafter called "") does hereby unconditionally promise to pay to the order of a national banking association (""), at its office at 1445 Ross Avenue, 3rd Floor, MAC T5303-031, Dallas, Texas 75202, the principal sum of
Maker
Wells Fargo Bank, National Association,
Payee
FIFTY
MILLION AND NO/100 DOLLARS
($50,000.000.00), or such lesser amount as has been loaned or advanced by Payee to Maker hereunder, in lawful money of the United States of America, together with interest from the date hereof until maturity at the rates per annum provided below.
 
1.
            
Definitions
.  For purposes of this Revolving Line of Credit Note (this ""), unless the context otherwise requires, the following terms shall have the definitions assigned to such terms as follows:
Note
 
"" shall mean:
Business Day
 
(i)
           
for all purposes (other than as covered by clause (ii) below) any day except Saturday, Sunday or a day which in the United States is a legal holiday or a day on which banking institutions are authorized or required by law or other government action to close;
 
(ii)
          
with respect to all notices and determinations in connection with, and payments of principal and interest on, a LIBOR Balance, any day which is a Business Day described in clause (i) above and which is also a day for trading by and between banks in the interbank eurodollar market.
 
"" shall mean, with respect to Maker's payment, or conversion to a different Interest Option, of all or any portion of the then-outstanding principal amount of any LIBOR Balance on a day other than the last day of the LIBOR Interest Period related thereto, any loss, cost or expense incurred by Payee in redepositing such principal amount, including the sum of (i) the interest which, but for such payment, Payee would have earned in respect of such principal amount so paid for the remainder of LIBOR Interest Period applicable to such principal amount, reduced, if Payee is able to redeposit such principal amount so paid for the balance of such LIBOR Interest Period, by the interest earned by Payee as a result of so redepositing such principal amount, (ii) any expense or penalty incurred by Payee on redepositing such principal amount.
Consequential Loss
plus
 
"" shall mean a rate of interest based upon the LIBOR Base Rate or WFB Base Rate in effect at any time pursuant to an Interest Notice.
Contract Rate
 
"" and the sign "" shall mean lawful currency of the United States of America.
Dollars
$
 
"" shall mean, with respect to each LIBOR Interest Period the maximum reserve percentage (expressed as a decimal) in effect on the first day of any
Eurocurrency Reserve Percentage
LIBOR Interest Period, as prescribed by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (or any successor), for determining reserve requirements applicable to "eurocurrency liabilities" pursuant to Regulation D or any other then applicable regulation of the Board of Governors (or any successor) which prescribes reserve requirements applicable to "eurocurrency liabilities," as presently defined in Regulation D, or any eurocurrency funding.
 
"" shall mean an Event of Default as such term is defined in the Loan Agreement.
Event of Default
 
"" shall mean, on any date, the amount by which (i) the amount of all interest which would have accrued prior to such date on the principal of this Note (had the applicable Contract Rate at all times been in effect without limitation by the Maximum Rate) (ii) the aggregate amount of interest actually received by Payee on this Note on or prior to such date.
Excess Interest Amount
exceeds
 
"" means, for any day, the weighted average of the rates on overnight Federal funds transactions with members of the Federal Reserve System arranged by Federal funds brokers, as published on the immediately following Business Day by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York or, if such rate is not published for any Business Day, the average of the quotations for the day of the requested advance received by Payee from three Federal funds brokers of recognized standing selected by Payee.
Federal Funds Effective Rate
 
"" shall mean the written notice given by Maker to Payee of the Interest Options selected hereunder.  Each Interest Notice shall specify the Interest Option selected, the amount of the unpaid principal balance of this Note to bear interest at the rate selected and, if the LIBOR Base Rate is specified, the length of the applicable LIBOR Interest Period.
Interest Notice
 
"" shall have the meaning assigned to such term in hereof.
Interest Option
paragraph 7
 
"" shall mean (i) in the case of any WFB Base Rate Balance, the fifteenth (15th) day of the last month of each calendar quarter during the term hereof, commencing December 15, 2004, and at the maturity of this Note, and (ii) in the case of any LIBOR Balance, the last day of the corresponding LIBOR Interest Period with respect to such LIBOR Balance and at the maturity of this Note.
Interest Payment Date
 
"" shall mean any principal balance of this Note which, pursuant to an Interest Notice, bears interest at a rate based upon the LIBOR Base Rate for the LIBOR Interest Period specified in such Interest Notice.
LIBOR Balance
 
"" shall mean, with respect to each LIBOR Interest Period, on any day thereof the quotient of (i) the LIBOR Rate with respect to such LIBOR Interest Period, (ii) the remainder of 1.0 the Eurocurrency Reserve Percentage in effect on such day.
LIBOR Base Rate
divided by
minus
 
"" shall mean, with respect to any LIBOR Balance, a period commencing: (i) on any date upon which, pursuant to an Interest Notice, the principal amount of such LIBOR Balance begins to accrue interest at the LIBOR Base Rate, or (ii) on the last day of the immediately preceding LIBOR Interest Period in the case of a rollover to a successive LIBOR Interest Period, and ending one month, two months or three months thereafter as Maker
LIBOR Interest Period
shall elect in accordance with the provisions hereof; provided, that: (A) any LIBOR Interest Period which would otherwise end on a day which is not a Business Day shall be extended to the next succeeding Business Day unless such Business Day falls in another calendar month, in which case such LIBOR Interest Period shall end on the next preceding Business Day; and (B) any LIBOR Interest Period which begins on the last Business Day of a calendar month (or on a day for which there is no numerically corresponding day in the calendar month at the end of such LIBOR Interest Period) shall, subject to clauses (C) below and (A) above, end on the last Business Day of a calendar month; and (C) any LIBOR Interest Period which would otherwise end after September 22, 2005 shall end on September 22, 2005.
 
"" shall mean, with respect to each LIBOR Interest Period, the rate of interest determined by Payee to be the arithmetic average (rounded upward, if necessary to the nearest 1/16th of 1%) of the per annum rates of interest at which Dollar deposits with a maturity equal to the proposed LIBOR Interest Period (and in an amount approximating the LIBOR Balance) would be offered to Payee by major banks in the interbank eurodollar market at approximately 8:00 a.m. (Dallas, Texas time) on the Business Day immediately preceding the first day of such LIBOR Interest Period.
LIBOR Rate
 
"" shall mean that certain Loan Agreement, dated as of September 23, 2004, by and among Maker, Payee and the subsidiaries and/or affiliates of Maker from time to time a party thereto, as guarantors, as amended, restated, supplemented and/or modified from time to time.
Loan Agreement
 
"" as used herein, shall mean, with respect to the holder hereof, the maximum non-usurious interest rate, if any, that at any time, or from time to time, may be contracted for, taken, reserved, charged, or received on the indebtedness evidenced by this Note under the laws which are presently in effect of the United States and the State of Texas applicable to such holder and such indebtedness or, to the extent permitted by law, under such applicable laws of the United States and the State of Texas which may hereafter be in effect and which allow a higher maximum non-usurious interest rate than applicable laws now allow.  To the extent that any of the optional interest rate ceilings provided in Chapter 303 of the Texas Finance Code, as amended from time to time (as amended, the ""), may be available for application to any loan(s) or extension(s) of credit under this Note for the purpose of determining the Maximum Rate hereunder pursuant to the Texas Finance Code, the applicable "monthly ceiling" (as such term is defined in Chapter 303 of the Texas Finance Code) from time to time in effect shall be used to the extent that it is so available, and if such "monthly ceiling" at any time is not so available then the applicable "weekly ceiling" (as such term is defined in Chapter 303 of the Texas Finance Code) from time to time in effect shall be used to the extent that it is so available.
Maximum Rate,
Texas Finance Code
 
"" shall mean Regulation D of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System from time to time in effect and shall include any successor or other regulation relating to reserve requirements applicable to member banks of the Federal Reserve System.
Regulation D
 
"" shall mean $50,000,000.00.
Total Commitment
"" shall mean Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, a national banking association, and its successors and assigns.
WFB
 
"" shall mean, on any date of determination, a variable rate of interest per annum equal to the higher of either (a) the WFB Prime Rate, or (b) the Federal Funds Effective Rate .
WFB Base Rate
plus
one-half of one percent (0.50%)
 
"" shall mean that portion of the principal balance of this Note bearing interest at a rate based upon the WFB Base Rate.
WFB Base Rate Balance
 
"" shall mean the rate of interest most recently announced within Payee at its principal office in San Francisco as its prime rate and is a base rate for calculating interest on certain loans.  The rate announced by Payee as its prime rate may or may not be the most favorable rate charged by Payee to its customers.  Each change in the WFB Prime Rate shall become effective without prior notice to Maker automatically as of the opening of business on the date such change is announced within Payee.
WFB Prime Rate
 
2.
            
Manner of Borrowing; Advance Requests
.  A request for an advance under this Note shall be made, or shall be deemed to be made, if Maker gives Payee notice of its intention to borrow, in which notice Maker shall specify (i) the aggregate principal amount of such advance and (ii) the requested date of such advance, which shall be a Business Day.  Any such request for an advance shall be accompanied by an Interest Notice and shall be made (i) no later than 11:00 a.m. Dallas, Texas time at least three (3) Business Days prior to the requested advance date if the principal balance of such advance, pursuant to such Interest Notice, is to bear interest at a rate based upon the LIBOR Base Rate and (ii) no later than 11:00 a.m. Dallas, Texas time or the requested advance date if the principal balance of such advance, pursuant to such Interest Notice, is to bear interest at a rate based upon the WFB Base Rate.  Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, Payee shall have the right to refuse to accept a request for an advance under this Note if at the date any such request is made or any such advance is to be made there exists a default or an Event of Default under this Note or the Loan Agreement.  As an accommodation to Maker, Payee may permit telephonic requests for loans and electronic transmittal of instructions, authorizations, agreements or reports to Payee by Maker.  Unless Maker specifically directs Payee in writing not to accept or act upon telephonic or electronic communications from Maker, Payee shall have no liability to Maker for any loss or damage suffered by Maker as a result of Payee's honoring of any requests, execution of any instructions, authorizations or agreements or reliance on any reports communicated to Payee telephonically or electronically and purporting to have been sent to Payee by any individual from time to time designated by Maker as an authorized officer and Payee shall have no duty to verify the origin or authenticity of any such communication.
 
3.
            
Payments of Interest and Principal
.  Interest on the unpaid principal balance of this Note shall be due and payable on each Interest Payment Date as it accrues.  The unpaid principal balance of this Note shall be due and payable in full on September 22, 2005.
 
4.
            
Rates of Interest
.  The unpaid principal of the WFB Base Rate Balance shall bear interest at a rate per annum which shall from day to day be equal to the lesser of (i) the higher of either (a) the WFB Base Rate in effect from day to day, or (b)
minus
one percent (1.00%)
three
percent (3.0%)
, or (ii) the Maximum Rate. The unpaid principal of each LIBOR Balance shall bear interest at a rate per annum which shall from day to day be equal to the lesser of (i) the LIBOR Base Rate for the LIBOR Interest Period in effect with respect to such LIBOR Balance , or (ii) the Maximum Rate.  Each determination by Payee of the LIBOR Base Rate shall, in the absence of manifest error, be conclusive and binding.  Interest on this Note with respect to each WFB Base Rate Balance and each LIBOR Balance shall be calculated on the basis of the actual days elapsed in a year consisting of 360 days.
plus
one-half of one percent (0.50%)
 
5.
            
Interest Recapture
.  If on each Interest Payment Date or any other date on which interest payments are required hereunder, Payee does not receive interest on this Note computed at the Contract Rate because such Contract Rate exceeds or has exceeded the Maximum Rate, then Maker shall, upon the written demand of Payee, pay to Payee in addition to the interest otherwise required to be paid hereunder, on each Interest Payment Date thereafter, the Excess Interest Amount (calculated as of such later Interest Payment Date); provided that in no event shall Maker be required to pay interest at a rate exceeding the Maximum Rate effective during such period.
 
6.
            
Default Rate of Interest
.  From and after the occurrence and during the continuance of an Event of Default, this Note shall bear interest at any rate equal to or less than the Maximum Rate, as chosen by Payee, at its discretion.  All past due principal and, to the extent permitted by applicable law, interest upon this Note shall bear interest at any rate equal to or less than the Maximum Rate, as chosen by Payee, at its discretion.
 
7.
            
Interest Option
.  Subject to the provisions hereof, Maker shall have the option (an "") to designate portions of the unpaid principal balance hereof to bear interest at a rate based upon the LIBOR Base Rate or WFB Base Rate as provided in hereof; , , that in the case of the selection of the LIBOR Base Rate, the LIBOR Balance for a particular LIBOR Interest Period shall not be less than (or, if greater than , in integral multiples of ); , that no more than five (5) LIBOR Balances shall be outstanding at any one time under this Note; , , that the sum of the aggregate amount of all LIBOR Balances and WFB Base Rate Balances outstanding under this Note shall at no time exceed the Total Commitment.  The option of Maker to designate portions of the principal of this Note to bear interest at a rate based upon the LIBOR Base Rate or WFB Base Rate shall be exercised in the manner provided below:
Interest Option
paragraph 4
provided
however
$500,000
$500,000
$100,000
provided
further,
however
provided
further
however
 
(i)
           
At Time of Borrowing
.  Maker shall request advances under this Note in accordance with, and in the manner prescribed by, hereof.  In connection with any such advance request, Maker shall give Payee an Interest Notice indicating the Interest Option selected with respect to the principal amount of the proposed borrowing.
paragraph 2
 
(ii)
          
At Expiration of LIBOR Interest
.  At least three (3) Business Days prior to the termination of any LIBOR Interest Period, Maker shall give Payee an Interest Notice indicating the Interest Option to be applicable to the corresponding LIBOR Balance, as appropriate, upon the expiration of such LIBOR Interest Period.  If the required Interest Notice shall not have been timely received by Payee prior to the expiration of the then relevant LIBOR Interest Period, Maker shall be deemed (a) to have selected a rate based upon the WFB Base Rate to be applicable to such LIBOR Balance, and such LIBOR
Balance shall thereafter be a WFB Base Rate Balance upon the expiration of such LIBOR Interest Period and (b) to have given Payee notice of such selections.
 
(iii)
         
Conversion From WFB Base Rate
.  During any period in which any portion of the principal hereof bears interest at a rate based upon the WFB Base Rate, Maker shall have the right, on any Business Day (the ""), to convert all or a portion of such principal amount from the WFB Base Rate Balance to a LIBOR Balance by giving Payee an Interest Notice of such selection at least three (3) Business Days prior to such Conversion Date for any LIBOR Balance.
Conversion Date
 
8.
            
Special Provisions For LIBOR Pricing
 
(a)
          
Inadequacy of LIBOR Pricing
.  If Payee reasonably determines that, by reason of circumstances affecting the interbank market generally, deposits in Dollars (in the applicable amounts) are not being offered to Payee in the interbank market for any LIBOR Interest Period, or that the rate at which such Dollar deposits are being offered will not adequately and fairly reflect the cost to Payee of making or maintaining a LIBOR Balance for such LIBOR Interest Period, Payee shall forthwith give notice thereof to Maker, whereupon until Payee notifies Maker that the circumstances giving rise to such suspension no longer exist, (i) the right of Maker to select an Interest Option based upon the LIBOR Base Rate shall be suspended, and (ii) Maker shall convert each LIBOR Balance into the WFB Base Rate Balance in accordance with the provisions hereof on the last day of the then-current LIBOR Interest Period applicable to such LIBOR Balance.
 
(b)
          
Illegality
.  If the adoption of any applicable law, rule or regulation, or any change therein, or any change in the interpretation or administration thereof by any governmental authority, central bank or comparable agency charged with the interpretation or administration thereof, or compliance by Payee with any request or directive (whether or not having the force of law) of any such authority, central bank or comparable agency shall make it unlawful or impossible for Payee to make or maintain a LIBOR Balance, Payee shall so notify Maker.  Upon receipt of such notice, Maker shall convert such LIBOR Balance into the WFB Base Rate Balance, on either (i) the last day of the then-current LIBOR Interest Period applicable to such LIBOR Balance if Payee may lawfully continue to maintain and fund such LIBOR Balance to such day, or (ii) immediately, if Payee may not lawfully continue to maintain such LIBOR Balance to such day.
 
(c)
          
Increased Costs for LIBOR Balances
.
 
(i)
           
If the adoption of any applicable law, rule or regulation, or any change therein, or any change in the interpretation or administration thereof by any governmental authority, central bank or comparable agency charged with the interpretation or administration thereof, or compliance by Payee with any request or directive (whether or not having the force of law) of any such authority, central bank or comparable agency shall subject Payee to any tax (including without limitation any United States interest equalization or similar tax, however named), duty or other charge with respect to the LIBOR Balances, this Note or Payee's obligation to compute interest on the principal balance of this Note at a rate based upon the LIBOR Base Rate, or shall change the basis
of taxation of payments to Payee of the principal of or interest on the LIBOR Balances or any other amounts due under this Note in respect of the LIBOR Balances or Payee's obligation to compute the interest on the balance of this Note at a rate based upon the LIBOR Base Rate (except for changes in the rate on the tax on the overall net income of Payee imposed by the jurisdiction in which Payee's principal executive office is located); or
 
(ii)
          
if any governmental authority, central bank or other comparable authority shall at any time impose, modify or deem applicable any reserve (including, without limitation, any imposed by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System but excluding any reserve requirement included in the Eurocurrency Reserve Percentage of Payee), special deposit or similar requirement against assets of, deposits with or for the account of, or credit extended by, Payee, or shall impose on Payee (or its eurocurrency lending office) or the interbank market any other condition affecting a LIBOR Balance, this Note or Payee's obligation to compute the interest on the balance of this Note at a rate based upon the LIBOR Base Rate; and the result of any of the foregoing is to increase the cost to Payee of maintaining a LIBOR Balance, or to reduce the amount of any sum received or receivable by Payee under this Note by an amount deemed by Payee to be material, then upon demand by Payee, Maker shall pay to Payee such additional amount or amounts as will compensate Payee for such increased cost or reduction, the amount of which, when aggregated with interest to be paid under the LIBOR Balance, does not exceed the interest which would have been payable had the balance been calculated using the WFB Base Rate.  Payee will promptly notify Maker of any event of which it has knowledge, occurring after the date hereof, which will entitle Payee to compensation pursuant to this paragraph.  A certificate of Payee claiming compensation under this paragraph and setting forth the additional amount or amounts to be paid to Payee hereunder shall be conclusive in the absence of manifest error.
 
(d)
          
Effect on Balances
.  If notice has been given requiring a LIBOR Balance to be repaid or converted to the WFB Base Rate Balance, then unless and until Payee notifies Maker that the circumstances giving rise to such repayment no longer apply, the Interest Option shall be a rate based upon the WFB Base Rate.  If Payee notifies Maker that the circumstances giving rise to such repayment or conversion no longer apply, Maker may thereafter select a rate based upon the LIBOR Base Rate in accordance with the terms of this Note.
 
9.
            
Extension, Place and Application of Payments
.  Subject to the terms of the definitions of LIBOR Interest Period, should the principal of, or any interest on, this Note become due and payable on any day other than a Business Day, the maturity thereof shall be extended to the next succeeding Business Day, and interest shall be payable with respect to such extension.  All payments of principal of, and interest on, this Note shall be made by Maker to Payee at Payee's principal banking office in Dallas, Texas in federal or other immediately available funds.  Payments made to Payee by Maker hereunder shall be applied first to accrued interest and then to principal.
 
10.
          
Repayments of WFB Base Rate Balances; Prepayments of LIBOR Balances; Consequential Loss
.  Maker may repay any WFB Base Rate Balance at any time without premium or penalty and without prior notice.  Maker may prepay any LIBOR Balance prior to
the expiration of the applicable LIBOR Interest Period upon three (3) Business Days prior written notice subject to Maker's payment of the Consequential Loss incurred by Payee as a result of the timing of such prepayment; , , that Maker shall not have the option to designate any portion of the unpaid principal balance hereof to bear interest at a rate based upon the LIBOR Base Rate for a period of ninety (90) days following any such prepayment of any LIBOR Balance.  Any repayment or permitted prepayment of principal made hereunder shall not be less than $100,000 (or, if greater than $100,000, in integral multiples of $100,000, or such lesser amount as is then outstanding under this Note).  Any repayment or permitted prepayment of principal made hereunder shall be made together with interest accrued through the date of such repayment or prepayment, as applicable.
provided
however
 
11.
          
Advance Notice
.  Payee will use its best efforts to supply the Maker advance notice of the interest and/or principal amounts that the Payee has calculated are due at the scheduled payment dates at least one day in advance, assuming the unpaid principal balance and interest rate remain the same until such scheduled payment date.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, no failure by the Payee to give such notice will reduce the obligation of the Maker to pay such amounts on the date they become due.
 
12.
          
Notices
.  All notices required or permitted hereunder shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been given or made as follows:  (a) if sent by hand delivery, upon delivery; (b) if sent by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, upon receipt (as indicated on the return receipt); and (c) if sent by facsimile, upon receipt (which shall be confirmed by a confirmation report from the sender's facsimile machine), addressed to Maker or Payee at the following respective addresses or such other address as such party may from time to time designate by written notice to the other:
 
 
13.
          
Legal Fees
.  If this Note is placed in the hands of any attorney for collection, or if it is collected through any legal proceeding at law or in equity or in bankruptcy, receivership or other court proceedings, Maker agrees to pay all costs of collection including, but not limited to, court costs and reasonable attorneys' fees.
 
14.
          
Waivers
.  Maker and each surety, endorser, guarantor and other party ever liable for payment of any sums of money payable on this Note, jointly and severally waive presentment and demand for payment, protest, notice of protest, intention to accelerate, acceleration and non-
payment, or other notice of default, and agree that their liability under this Note shall not be affected by any renewal or extension in the time of payment hereof, or in any indulgences, or by any release or change in any security for the payment of this Note, and hereby consent to any and all renewals, extensions, indulgences, releases or changes, regardless of the number of such renewals, extensions, indulgences, releases or changes.
 
No waiver by Payee of any of its rights or remedies hereunder or under any other document evidencing or securing this Note or otherwise shall be considered a waiver of any other subsequent right or remedy of Payee; no delay or omission in the exercise or enforcement by Payee of any rights or remedies shall ever be construed as a waiver of any right or remedy of Payee; and no exercise or enforcement of any such rights or remedies shall ever be held to exhaust any right or remedy of Payee.
 
15.
          
Acceleration
.  If Maker fails or refuses to pay any part of the principal of or interest upon this Note as the same become due, or upon the occurrence of any Event of Default or other default hereunder or under any other agreement or instrument securing or assuring the payment of this Note or executed in connection herewith, then in any such event the holder hereof may, at its option, declare the entire unpaid balance of principal and accrued interest on this Note to be immediately due and payable, and foreclose all liens and security interests securing payment hereof or any part hereof.
 
16.
          
Interest Laws; Spreading
.  Any provision herein, or in any document securing this Note, or any other document executed or delivered in connection herewith, or in any other agreement or commitment, whether written or oral, expressed or implied, to the contrary notwithstanding, neither Payee nor any holder hereof shall in any event be entitled to receive or collect, nor shall or may amounts received hereunder be credited, so that Payee or any holder hereof shall be paid, as interest, a sum greater than the maximum amount permitted by applicable law to be charged to the person, partnership, firm or corporation primarily obligated to pay this Note at the time in question.  If any construction of this Note or any document securing this Note, or any and all other papers, agreements or commitments, indicate a different right given to Payee or any holder hereof to ask for, demand or receive any larger sum as interest, such is a mistake in calculation or wording which this clause shall override and control, it being the intention of the parties that this Note, and all other instruments securing the payment of this Note or executed or delivered in connection herewith shall in all things comply with applicable law and proper adjustments shall automatically be made accordingly.  In the event that Payee or any holder hereof ever receives, collects or applies as interest, any sum in excess of the Maximum Rate, if any, such excess amount shall be applied to the reduction of the unpaid principal balance of this Note, and if this Note is paid in full, any remaining excess shall be paid to Maker.  In determining whether or not the interest paid or payable, under any specific contingency, exceeds the Maximum Rate, if any, Maker and Payee or any holder hereof shall, to the maximum extent permitted under applicable law: (a) characterize any non-principal payment as an expense or fee rather than as interest, (b) exclude voluntary prepayments and the effects thereof, (c) "spread" the total amount of interest throughout the entire term of this Note; provided that if this Note is paid and performed in full prior to the end of the full contemplated term hereof, and if the interest received for the actual period of existence thereof exceeds the Maximum Rate, if any, Payee or any holder hereof shall refund to Maker the amount of such excess, or credit the amount
of such excess against the aggregate unpaid principal balance of all advances made by the Payee or any holder hereof under this Note at the time in question.
 
17.
          
Choice of Law
.  This Note is being executed and delivered, and is intended to be performed in the State of Texas.  Except to the extent that the laws of the United States may apply to the terms hereof, the substantive laws of the State of Texas shall govern the validity, construction, enforcement and interpretation of this Note. In the event of a dispute involving this Note or any other instruments executed in connection herewith, the undersigned irrevocably agrees that venue for such dispute shall lie in any court of competent jurisdiction in Dallas County, Texas to the extent such dispute is not resolved by binding arbitration pursuant to the Payee's current Arbitration Program described in below.
Section 19
 
18.
          
Loan Agreement
.  This Note is executed in connection with the Loan Agreement and the holder hereof is entitled to all the benefits provided therein and in the other agreements, documents, instruments and certificates entered into in connection with the Loan Agreement.
 
19.
          
AGREEMENT FOR BINDING ARBITRATION
.
  The parties agree to be bound by the terms and provisions of the Payee's current Arbitration Program which is incorporated by reference herein and is acknowledged as received by the parties pursuant to which any and all disputes shall be resolved by mandatory binding arbitration upon the request of any party.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Maker has caused this Note to be duly executed and delivered in Dallas, Texas, as of the date first above written.
 

Exhibit 10.3
 
 
THIS STOCK PLEDGE AGREEMENT
(this "") is entered into as of September 23, 2004, between , a Delaware corporation (""), and , a national banking association ("").
Agreement
FOSSIL, INC.
Pledgor
WELLS FARGO BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
Pledgee
 
1.
            
In consideration of any extension of credit heretofore or hereafter made by Pledgee to Fossil Partners, L.P., a Texas limited partnership (""), and as collateral security for and to secure the prompt payment and performance in full of all obligations of Pledgor to Pledgee under that certain Guaranty Agreement, dated as of September 23, 2004 (as hereinafter amended, modified and/or restated from time to time), pursuant to which Pledgor has absolutely and unconditionally guaranteed to Pledgee the prompt payment and performance in full of all now existing or hereafter arising obligations, liabilities and indebtedness of Borrower to Pledgee under that certain Loan Agreement dated as of September 23, 2004 by and among Pledgee, Borrower, Pledgor and the subsidiaries and/or affiliates of Pledgor from time to time a party thereto, as guarantors (as hereinafter amended, modified and/or restated from time to time, the ""), Pledgor hereby assigns to Pledgee and grants to Pledgee a continuing security interest in sixty-five percent (65%) of all issued and outstanding shares of capital stock (including, without limitation, all shares of common stock represented by the stock certificates identified on attached hereto) of each of Fossil Europe B.V. and Fossil (East) Limited (each individually, a "Subsidiary" and collectively, the ""), whether now or hereafter issued by the Subsidiaries, together with all proceeds, products and increases thereof and substitutions and replacements therefor (collectively, the "").  The obligations referenced above, together with any subsequent renewals, extensions, modifications or increases thereof, are collectively referred to as the "."
Borrower
Loan Agreement
Schedule I
Subsidiaries
Collateral
Secured Obligations
 
2.
            
Pledgor represents and warrants that (i) Pledgor holds absolute ownership of the Collateral, free and clear of all liens and encumbrances; (ii) there are no restrictions upon the transfer of any of the Collateral, other than as may appear and may be referenced on the face of the certificates or other than arising under applicable state or federal securities laws or laws of the jurisdiction in which such Subsidiaries are incorporated; (iii) Pledgor owns directly or indirectly (A) 70% of the issued and outstanding capital stock of Fossil Europe B.V., and (B) 100% of the issued and outstanding capital stock of Fossil (East) Ltd; (iv) there are no existing obligations to issue capital stock or securities convertible into capital stock of any Subsidiary and in no event will Pledgor permit any such stock or securities to be issued prior to payment in full of the Secured Obligations; and (v) there are no existing securities or obligations of any Subsidiary the amount of which obligation is based, in whole or in part, on the value of any Subsidiary's capital stock or any increase thereof, nor will Pledgor permit any such securities or obligations to exist prior to payment in full of the Secured Obligations.
 
3.
            
In furtherance of Pledgee's security interest in the Collateral, Pledgor agrees to deliver to Pledgee, on the date hereof (to the extent not previously delivered to Pledgee), the stock certificates identified on Schedule I attached hereto, together with stock powers duly executed in blank by Pledgor.  Pledgee acknowledges that notwithstanding Pledgor's delivery to Pledgee of stock certificates representing in excess of sixty-five percent (65%) of the issued and
 
outstanding shares of capital stock of the Subsidiaries, Pledgee's security interest hereunder shall be limited to sixty-five percent (65%) of the issued and outstanding shares of capital stock of the Subsidiaries.
 
4.
            
With respect to the Collateral and all proceeds, products and increases thereof and substitutions therefor, Pledgor hereby appoints Pledgee its attorney-in-fact, to arrange for the transfer of the Collateral on the books of the Subsidiaries to the name of Pledgee subsequent to the occurrence and during the continuance of any Event of Default (as hereinafter defined) hereunder.  However, Pledgee shall be under no obligation to do so.
 
5.
            
During the term of this Agreement, provided no Event of Default has occurred and then exists hereunder, Pledgor shall have the right, where applicable, to vote the Collateral on all corporate questions, and Pledgee shall, if necessary, execute due and timely proxies in favor of Pledgor for this purpose; , , that Pledgor will not be entitled to exercise any such right if the result thereof could reasonably be expected to materially and adversely affect the rights inuring to Pledgee hereunder or the rights and remedies of Pledgee under this Agreement or the ability of Pledgee to exercise the same.
provided
however
 
6.
            
Upon the occurrence of any Event of Default and during the continuance thereof, Pledgee may exercise all of the rights and privileges in connection with the Collateral (including, without limitation, voting rights) to which a transferee may be entitled as the record holder thereof, together with the rights and privileges otherwise granted hereunder.  Pledgee shall be under no obligation to exercise any of such rights or privileges.
 
7.
            
If, with the consent of Pledgee, Pledgor shall substitute or exchange other securities in place of those herein mentioned, all of the rights and privileges of Pledgee and all of the obligations of Pledgor with respect to the securities originally pledged or held as Collateral hereunder shall be forthwith applicable to such substituted or exchanged securities.
 
8.
            
Upon the occurrence of any Event of Default and during the continuance thereof, Pledgee shall be authorized to collect all dividends, interest payments, and other amounts (including amounts received or receivable upon redemption or repurchase) that may be, or become, due on any of the Collateral.  If Pledgor receives any such dividends, payments or amounts after the occurrence and during the continuance of an Event of Default, it shall immediately endorse and deliver the same to Pledgee in the form received.  All such amounts which Pledgee receives and retains in accordance with the terms of this paragraph 8 shall be applied to reduce the principal amount outstanding on the Secured Obligations in inverse order of maturity.  Pledgee is, furthermore, authorized to give receipts in the name of Pledgor for any amounts so received.  Pledgee shall be under no obligation to collect any such amounts.
 
9.
            
In the event that, during the term of this Agreement, subscription warrants or any other rights or options shall be issued in connection with the Collateral, such warrants, rights, or options shall be immediately assigned, if necessary, by Pledgor to Pledgee.  If any such warrants, rights, or options are exercised by Pledgor, all new securities so acquired by Pledgor shall be immediately assigned to Pledgee, shall become part of the Collateral and shall be endorsed to, delivered to and held by Pledgee under the terms of this Agreement in the same manner as the securities originally pledged.
10.
          
In the event that, during the term of this Agreement, any share, dividend, reclassification, readjustment or other change is declared or made in the capital structure of any Subsidiary, all new, substituted and additional shares, or other securities and related stock certificates, issued by reason of any such change shall become part of the Collateral and shall be endorsed to, delivered to and held by Pledgee under the terms of this Agreement in the same manner as the securities originally pledged hereunder (except to the extent that any such pledge by Pledgor to Pledgee would cause more than sixty-five percent (65%) of the issued and outstanding shares of capital stock of any Subsidiary to become subject to Pledgee's security interest hereunder).
 
11.
          
Pledgor authorizes Pledgee, without notice or demand, and without affecting the liability of Pledgor hereunder, from time to time to:
 
(A)
         
hold security in addition to and other than the Collateral for the payment of the Secured Obligations or any part thereof, and exchange, enforce, waive and release any Collateral or any part thereof, or any other such security, or part thereof;
 
(B)
          
release any of the endorsers or guarantors of the Secured Obligations secured hereunder or any part thereof, or any other person whomsoever liable for or on account of such Secured Obligations;
 
(C)
          
on the transfer of all or any part of the Secured Obligations secured hereunder, Pledgee may assign all or any part of Pledgee's security interest in the Collateral and shall be fully discharged thereafter from all liability and responsibility with respect to the Collateral so transferred, provided that in no event shall Pledgee be liable for any act or omission or negligent act or negligent omission with respect to the Collateral, other than acts or omissions constituting gross negligence, willful misconduct or tortious breach of contract.  The transferee of the Collateral shall be vested with the rights, powers and remedies of Pledgee hereunder, and with respect to any Collateral not so transferred, Pledgee shall retain all rights, powers and remedies hereby given; and
 
(D)
         
Pledgor hereby waives any right to require Pledgee to proceed against Pledgor, Borrower or any other person whomsoever, to proceed against or exhaust any collateral or any other security held by Pledgee, or to pursue any other remedy available to Pledgee.  Pledgor further waives any defense arising by reason of any liability or other defense of Pledgor or of any other person.  Pledgor shall have no right to require Pledgee to marshal collateral.
 
12.
          
It shall not be necessary for Pledgee to inquire into the powers of Pledgor or the officers, directors or agents acting or purporting to act on behalf of Pledgor, and any obligations made or created in reliance on the professed exercise of such powers shall be secured hereunder.
 
13.
          
To the extent permitted by applicable law and in the Loan Agreement, Pledgee shall be under no duty or obligation whatsoever to make or give any presentments, demands for performance, notices of non-performance, protests, notices of protest, or notices of dishonor in connection with the Secured Obligations.
14.
          
The occurrence of an event of default under and as defined in the Loan Agreement shall, at the option of Pledgee, constitute an "" under this Agreement.
Event of Default
 
15.
          
Upon the occurrence and during the continuance of any Event of Default, the Secured Obligations shall, at the option of Pledgee, become immediately due and payable, and Pledgee shall have all rights and remedies as a secured party under any UCC (as hereinafter defined), and such additional rights and remedies to which a secured party is entitled under the laws in effect in all relevant jurisdictions, and, in this connection, subject to applicable regulatory and legal requirements, Pledgee may sell the Collateral, or any part thereof, at public or private sale or at any broker's board or on any securities exchange or electronic trading facility, for cash, upon credit or for future delivery as Pledgee shall deem appropriate.  Pledgee shall be authorized at any such sale (if it deems it advisable to do so) to restrict the prospective bidders or purchasers to persons who will represent and agree that they are purchasing the Collateral for their own account for investment and not with a view to the distribution or sale thereof, and upon consummation of any such sale Pledgee shall have the right to assign, transfer and deliver to the purchaser or purchasers thereof the Collateral so sold.  Each such purchaser at any such sale shall hold the property sold absolutely free from any claim or right on the part of Pledgor, and, to the extent permitted by applicable law, Pledgor hereby waives all rights of redemption, stay, valuation and appraisal Pledgor now has or may at any time in the future have under any rule of law or statute now existing or hereafter enacted.  Pledgee shall give each person entitled to notice of such sale under Section 9-611(c) of the UCC ten (10) days prior written notice (which Pledgor agrees is reasonable notice within the meaning of Section 9-612 of the UCC) of Pledgee's intention to make any sale of Collateral.  Such notice shall conform to the requirements of Section 9-613 of the UCC.  Any such public sale shall be held at such time or times within ordinary business hours and at such place or places as Pledgee may fix and state in the notice of such sale.  At any such sale, the Collateral, or portion thereof, to be sold may be sold in one lot as an entirety or in separate parcels, as Pledgee may (in its sole and absolute discretion) determine.  Pledgee shall not be obligated to make any sale of any Collateral if it shall determine not to do so, regardless of the fact that notice of sale of such Collateral shall have been given.  Pledgee may, without notice or publication, adjourn any public or private sale or cause the same to be adjourned from time to time by announcement at the time and place fixed for sale, and such sale may, without further notice, be made at the time and place to which the same was so adjourned.  In case any sale of all or any part of the Collateral is made on credit or for future delivery, the Collateral so sold may be retained by Pledgee until the sale price is paid in full by the purchaser or purchasers thereof, but Pledgee shall not incur any liability in case any such purchaser or purchasers shall fail to take up and pay for the Collateral so sold and, in case of any such failure, such Collateral may be sold again upon like notice.  At any public (or, to the extent permitted by applicable law, private) sale made pursuant to this Section, Pledgee may bid for or purchase, free from any right of redemption, stay or appraisal on the part of Pledgor (all said rights being also hereby waived and released), the Collateral or any part thereof offered for sale and may make payment on account thereof by using any claim then due and payable to it from Pledgor as a credit against the purchase price, and it may, upon compliance with the terms of sale, hold, retain and dispose of such property without further accountability to Pledgor therefor.  For purposes hereof, (a) a written agreement to purchase the Collateral or any portion thereof shall be treated as a sale thereof, (b) Pledgee shall be free to carry out such sale pursuant to such agreement, and (c) Pledgor shall not be entitled to the return of the Collateral or any portion
thereof subject thereto, notwithstanding the fact that after Pledgee shall have entered into such an agreement, all Events of Default shall have been remedied and the Obligations paid in full.  As an alternative to exercising the power of sale herein conferred upon it, Pledgee may proceed by a suit or suits at law or in equity to foreclose upon the Collateral and to sell the Collateral or any portion thereof pursuant to a judgment or decree of a court or courts having competent jurisdiction or pursuant to a proceeding by a court-appointed receiver.  Any sale pursuant to the provisions of this Section shall be deemed to be a commercially reasonable disposition as provided in Section 9-610 of the UCC.  Pledgee shall receive the proceeds of any such sale or sales, and, after deducting therefrom any and all reasonable costs and expenses incurred in connection with the sale thereof, apply the net proceeds toward the payment of the Secured Obligations secured hereunder, including interest, reasonable attorneys' fees, and all other reasonable costs and expenses incurred by Pledgee hereunder and under any other agreement between Pledgor and Pledgee.  If such proceeds be more than sufficient to pay the same, then in case of a surplus, such surplus shall be accounted for and paid over to Pledgor, provided Pledgor be not then indebted to Pledgee otherwise under this Agreement or any Other Agreement or for any cause whatsoever.  As used herein, the term "UCC" shall mean (i) the Uniform Commercial Code as in effect from time to time in the State of Texas and (ii) in any case where mandatory choice or law rules in the Texas Uniform Commercial Code require the application of the Uniform Commercial Code of another jurisdiction, the Uniform Commercial Code of such other jurisdiction as in effect from time to time.
 
16.
          
In view of the position of Pledgor in relation to the Collateral, or because of other current or future circumstances, a question may arise under the Securities Act of 1933, as now or hereafter in effect, or any similar statute in any other jurisdiction or hereafter enacted analogous in purpose or effect (such Act and any such similar statute as from time to time in effect being called the "") with respect to any disposition of the Collateral permitted hereunder.  Pledgor understands that compliance with the Securities Laws might very strictly limit the course of conduct of Pledgee if Pledgee were to attempt to dispose of all or any part of the Collateral, and might also limit the extent to which or the manner in which any subsequent transferee of any Collateral could dispose of the same.  Similarly, there may be other legal restrictions or limitations affecting Pledgee in any attempt to dispose of all or part of the Collateral under applicable blue sky or other state securities laws or similar laws analogous in purpose or effect.  Pledgor recognizes that in light of such restrictions and limitations Pledgee may, with respect to any sale of the Collateral, limit the purchasers to those who will agree, among other things, to acquire such Collateral for their own account, for investment, and not with a view to the distribution or resale thereof.  Pledgor acknowledges and agrees that in light of such restrictions and limitations, Pledgee, in its sole and absolute discretion, (a) may proceed to make such a sale whether or not a registration statement for the purpose of registering such Collateral or part thereof shall have been filed under the Securities Laws and (b) may approach and negotiate with a single potential purchaser or a limited number of potential purchasers to effect such sale.  Pledgor acknowledges and agrees that any such sale might result in prices and other terms less favorable to the seller than if such sale were a public sale without such restrictions.  In the event of any such sales, Pledgee shall incur no responsibility or liability for selling all or any part of the Collateral at a price that Pledgee, in its sole and absolute discretion, may in good faith deem reasonable under the circumstances, notwithstanding the possibility that a substantially higher price might have been realized if the sale were deferred until after registration under the Securities Laws or if more than a single purchaser or a limited number of
Securities Laws
purchasers were approached.  The provisions of this Section will apply notwithstanding the existence of a public or private market upon which the quotations or sales prices may exceed substantially the price at which Pledgee sells.
 
17.
          
Pledgor agrees to execute and deliver to Pledgee such financing statements, continuation statements or amendments of financing statements, each in form reasonably acceptable to Pledgee, as Pledgee may from time to time reasonably request, or as are necessary or desirable in the opinion of Pledgee to establish and maintain a valid, enforceable, first priority perfected security interest in the Collateral as provided herein, and the other rights and security contemplated hereby, all in accordance with the UCC as enacted in any and all relevant jurisdictions, or any other relevant law.  Pledgor hereby authorizes Pledgee to file any such financing statements without the signature of Pledgor where permitted by law.  Pledgee is herby authorized to make filings with such recording offices and such other governmental authorities as Pledgee may consider necessary or appropriate for the purpose of perfecting, confirming, continuing, enforcing or protecting the security interests and liens granted to Pledgor by Pledgee.  Pledgor will pay any applicable filing fees, recordation taxes and related expenses relating to the Collateral.
 
18.
          
Pledgor hereby constitutes and appoints Pledgee its true and lawful attorney, irrevocably, with full power after the occurrence of and during the continuance of an Event of Default (in the name of Pledgor or otherwise) (i) to act, require, demand, receive, compound and give acquittance for any and all moneys and claims for moneys due or to become due to Pledgor under or arising out of the Collateral, (ii) to endorse any checks or other instruments or orders in connection therewith, (iii) to file any claims or take any action or institute any proceedings which Pledgee may deem to be necessary or advisable to protect its interests and (iv) to execute, deliver, record or file any other document or instrument and take such other actions as it considers appropriate in connection with the perfection, protection or enforcement of its security interest in the Collateral, the possession, maintenance, preparation for sale, foreclosure, sale, lease, exchange or other disposition or release of any Collateral or the exercise of any rights or remedies provided in this Agreement, which appointment as attorney is coupled with an interest.
 
19.
          
Upon indefeasible repayment in full in cash of the Secured Obligations, Pledgee will promptly, at Pledgor's expense, deliver all of the Collateral to Pledgor along with all instruments of assignment executed in connection therewith, and execute and deliver to Pledgor such documents as Pledgor shall reasonably request to evidence Assignor's release of Pledgee's security interest hereunder.
 
20.
          
Choice of Law
.  This Agreement is being executed and delivered, and is intended to be performed in the State of Texas.  Except to the extent that the laws of the United States may apply to the terms hereof, the substantive laws of the State of Texas shall govern the validity, construction, enforcement and interpretation of this Agreement.  In the event of a dispute involving this Agreement or any other instruments executed in connection herewith, the undersigned irrevocably agrees that venue for such dispute shall lie in any court of competent jurisdiction in Dallas County, Texas to the extent such dispute is not resolved by binding arbitration pursuant to Pledgee's current Arbitration Program described in below.
Section 22
21.
          
Loan Agreement
.  This Agreement is executed in connection with the Loan Agreement and Pledgee is entitled to all the benefits provided therein and in the other agreements, documents, instruments and certificates entered into in connection with the Loan Agreement.
 
22.
          
AGREEMENT FOR BINDING ARBITRATION
.
  The parties agree to be bound by the terms and provisions of Pledgee's current Arbitration Program which is incorporated by reference herein and is acknowledged as received by the parties pursuant to which any and all disputes shall be resolved by mandatory binding arbitration upon the request of any party.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Pledgor and Pledgee have executed this Agreement as of the date first above written.
 
 
 
 


