FILE:FOSL/FOSL-8K-20060320154659.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
FORM 8-K
 
FOSSIL, INC.
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Item 1.01
                                            
Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
 
On March 15, 2006, the Board of Directors (the "Board") of Fossil, Inc. (the "Company") approved certain changes to the cash compensation of non-emp loyee directors of the Company recommended by the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee of the Board. There were no changes made to the current equity compensation of non-employee directors under the Nonemployee Director Stock Option Plan, pursuant to which each non-employee director receives a grant of 5,000 non-qualified stock options on the date he becomes a director of the Company, and a grant of an additional 4,000 non-qualified stock options on the first day of each calendar year, as long as he is then serving as a non-employee director.
 
The new cash compensation program approved by the Board, effective as of January 1, 2006, is included as Exhibit 10.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated by reference herein.
 
Item 5.03.
                                         
Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year.
 
On March 15, 2006, the Board adopted amendments to Article VI, Sections 6.1 and 6.5 of the Company's Bylaws and added a new Section 6.6, in order to provide for the issuance of uncertificated securities as well as certificated securities and to modify certain mechanical requirements regarding certificated securities. The amendment to the Bylaws, effective March 15, 2006, are included as Exhibit 3.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and are incorporated by reference herein.
(a)
                                 
 
Item 9.01
                                            
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d)
                                
Exhibits
 
Amendment to Bylaws, effective as of March 15, 2006.
3.1
                                
 
Summary Sheet of Non-employee Director Compensation
10.1
                          
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

EXHIBIT 3.1
 
 
Section 6.1 of the Bylaws is hereby amended by deleting the existing language in its entirety and substituting, in lieu thereof, the following:
1.
              
 
"Section 6.1  The shares of the Corporation shall be evidenced by certificates in such form as the appropriate officers of the Corporation may from time to time prescribe; provided that the Board may provide by resolution or resolutions that some or all of any or all classes or series of stock of the Corporation shall be uncertificated shares. Notwithstanding the foregoing, each holder of uncertificated shares shall be entitled, upon request, to a certificate representing such shares. Shares represented by certificates shall be numbered and registered in a share register as they are issued. Share certificates shall exhibit the name of the registered holder and the number and class of shares and the series, if any, represented thereby and the par value of each share or a statement that such shares are without par value as the case may be. Except as otherwise provided by law, the rights and obligations of the holders of uncertificated shares and the rights and obligations of the holders of certificated shares of the same class and series shall be identical.
Certificates; Signatures on Certificates.
 
Every share certificate shall be signed by the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the President or a Vice President; and by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary or the Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer; and shall be sealed with the Corporation's seal which may be facsimile, engraved or printed."
 
Section 6.5 of the Bylaws is hereby amended by deleting the existing language in its entirety and substituting, in lieu thereof, the following:
2.
              
 
"Section 6.5  . Upon surrender to the Corporation, or a transfer agent of the Corporation, of a certificate for shares duly endorsed or accompanied by proper evidence of succession, assignment or authority to transfer, the Corporation may issue a new certificate, or, upon request, evidence of the equivalent uncertificated shares, to the person entitled thereto, cancel the old certificate and record the transaction upon its books. Upon receipt of proper transfer instructions from the holder of uncertificated shares, the Corporation shall cancel such uncertificated shares and issue new equivalent uncertificated shares, or, upon such holder's request, certificated shares, to the person entitled thereto, and record the transaction upon its books."
Transfer of Shares
 
A new Section 6.6 shall be inserted after amended Section 6.5 of the
3.
              
 
 
Bylaws to read as follows:
 
Section 6.6  . The Corporation and its transfer agents shall be entitled to treat the holder of record of any share or shares as the holder in fact thereof and shall not be bound to recognize any equitable or other claims to, or interest in, such shares on the part of any other person and shall not be liable for any registration or transfer of shares which are registered, or to be registered, in the name of a fiduciary or the nominee of a fiduciary unless made with actual knowledge that a fiduciary, or nominee of a fiduciary, is committing a breach of trust in requesting such registration or transfer, or with knowledge of such facts that its participation therein amounts to bad faith.
Registered Shareholders
 
The undersigned, as Secretary of Fossil, Inc. (the "Corporation"), does hereby certify that the foregoing Amendment to the Bylaws of the Corporation were approved and adopted by the unanimous vote of the Board of Directors of the Corporation at a meeting held on the 15th day of March, 2006.
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 10.1
 
 
Effective January 1, 2006
 
1.
                                     
Board of Directors
 
 
2.
                                     
Audit Committee
 
 
3.
                                     
Compensation Committee
 
 
4.
                                     
Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee
 
 
Payment shall be made for each committee meeting attended even if attending more than one committee meeting on the same day.
 
* in excess of one hour
** only one retainer will be paid if chairing more than one committee (higher retainer paid)
 


