FILE:FOSL/FOSL-8K-20060911164729.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
FORM 8-K
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
                    
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
                    
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
                    
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
                  
 
Item 5.02.
             
Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
The Board of Directors (the "Board") of Fossil, Inc. (the "Company") has appointed Jennifer Pritchard to serve as President of the Retail Division, effective as of September 5, 2006.  This is a new position reporting directly to the Chief Executive Officer, Kosta Kartsotis.
Ms. Pritchard is 47 years of age.  From January 2004 until March 2006 she served as President of Arden B., a division of Wet Seal, a specialty retailer of apparel and accessory items.  Prior to that, from October 2002 until January 2004 Ms. Pritchard served as President of Zutopia, another division of Wet Seal, and from April 2001 until October 2002 she served as Executive Vice President Product Development and Marketing of Tex 38, LLC, a Hong-Kong based design and production company.
There are no family or other relationships or related transactions required to be disclosed concerning Ms. Pritchard.
.
On September 8, 2006, the Company issued a press release announcing the appointment of Ms. Pritchard as President of the Retail Division.  A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this report
Item 9.01
             
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)
          
Exhibits
Press Release, dated September 8, 2006, announcing the appointment of Jennifer Pritchard as President of the Retail Division.
99.1
                          
2
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
3
 
4

Exhibit 99.1
 
announced that it has added Jennifer Pritchard to its executive team as President of its Retail Division. In this newly created position, Ms. Pritchard's responsibilities will include overseeing all of Fossil's  multiple retail concepts in North America and Europe as well as direct involvement in retail development in Asia. The position reports directly to Fossil's Chief Executive Officer, Kosta Kartsotis.  Ms. Pritchard brings over 20 years experience in retail, having served as President of Arden B and Zutopia, divisions of Wet Seal as well as a ten year span with The Limited, Inc. where she left as Vice President of Tops.
Richardson, TX. September 8, 2006  Fossil, Inc. (FOSL - Nasdaq NMS)
"We are excited to have Jennifer as part of our team", said Kosta Kartsotis. "Her merchandising experience will be invaluable to us as we continue to expand our domestic and international retail operations."
Fossil operates 182 total stores worldwide, including 80 accessory, 72 outlet and 30 jeanswear locations.  Ms. Pritchard will be responsible for all retail concepts worldwide.
About Fossil
Fossil is a design, development, marketing and distribution company that specializes in consumer products predicated on fashion and value. The company's principal offerings include an extensive line of fashion watches sold under the company's proprietary and licensed brands. The company also offers complementary lines of small leather goods, belts, handbags, sunglasses, jewelry and apparel. The company's products are sold in department stores and specialty retail stores in over 90 countries around the world, in addition to the company's e-commerce website at www.fossil.com. Certain product, press release and SEC filing information concerning the Company is available at the website.


