FILE:FOSL/FOSL-8K-20060926110506.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
      Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
      Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
Item 1.01.
                         
Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
On September 20, 2006, Fossil Partners, L.P. ("Borrower"), a subsidiary of Fossil, Inc. (the "Company"), the Company and certain subsidiaries of the Company, as guarantors, executed (i) a Third Amendment to Loan Agreement (the "Third Amendment") with Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, a national banking association ("Wells Fargo"), which amends that certain Loan Agreement, dated September 23, 2004, as amended by that certain First Amendment to Loan Agreement effective as of September 22, 2005 and that certain Second Amendment to Loan Agreement effective as of September 22, 2005 (the "Loan Agreement"), in order to amend the Quick Ratio defined in Section 14(a) of the Loan Agreement and to amend the notice addresses in Section 16 of the Loan Agreement, (ii) a Second Amended and Restated Revolving Line of Credit Note (the "Second Amended Note") with Wells Fargo, which amends that certain Revolving Line of Credit Note dated September 23, 2004, as amended by that certain Amended and Restated Revolving Line of Credit Note, dated September 22, 2005 (the "Revolver"), in order to amend the notice addresses in Section 12 of the Revolver.  In connection with the foregoing amendments, the Company and Wells Fargo executed an Amended and Restated Stock Pledge Agreement (the "Amended Pledge Agreement"), which amends that certain Stock Pledge Agreement dated September 23, 2004, (the "Pledge Agreement"), in order to amend and expand the definition of Secured Obligations in the Pledge Agreement.
The foregoing descriptions of the Third Amendment, the Second Amended Note and the Amended Pledge Agreement are qualified in their entirety by the full text of each such documents, which are incorporated herein by reference and filed as exhibits hereto.
Item 9.01.
                         
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Exhibits
(d)
                                
The following exhibits are filed in accordance with the provisions of Item 601 of Regulation S-K:
Third Amendment to Loan Agreement, by and among Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, a national banking association, Fossil Partners, L.P., Fossil, Inc., Fossil Intermediate, Inc., Fossil Trust, Fossil Stores I, Inc., Arrow Merchandising, Inc. and Fossil Holdings, LLC, effective as of September 21, 2006
10.1
                       
Second Amended and Restated Revolving Line of Credit Note, by and between Fossil Partners, L.P. and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, a national banking association, dated September 21, 2006
10.2
                       
Amended and Restated Stock Pledge Agreement, by and between Fossil, Inc. and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, a national banking association, dated September 21, 2006
10.3
                       
2
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
3

Exhibit 10.1
THIS THIRD AMENDMENT TO LOAN AGREEMENT (this "") is made and entered into and effective as of September 21, 2006 (the ""), by and among a national banking association (the ""), (the ""), (the ""), (""), (""), (""), ("") and ("") (the Company, Fossil Intermediate, Fossil Trust, Fossil I, Arrow Merchandising and Fossil Holdings are sometimes referred to herein individually as a "" and collectively as the "").
Amendment
Amendment Closing Date
WELLS FARGO BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION,
Bank
FOSSIL PARTNERS, L.P.
Borrower
FOSSIL, INC.
Company
FOSSIL INTERMEDIATE, INC.
Fossil Intermediate
FOSSIL TRUST
Fossil Trust
FOSSIL STORES I, INC.
Fossil I
ARROW MERCHANDISING, INC.
Arrow Merchandising
FOSSIL HOLDINGS, LLC
Fossil Holdings
Guarantor
Guarantors
WHEREAS, the Bank, the Borrower and the Guarantors are parties to that certain Loan Agreement, dated as of September 23, 2004 (as amended, modified or supplemented, from time to time, the ""); and
Agreement
WHEREAS, the Bank, the Borrower and the Guarantors desire to amend the Agreement and the other Loan Documents as herein set forth.
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises herein contained and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties, intending to be legally bound, agree as follows:
1.01         Capitalized terms used in this Amendment are defined in the Agreement, as amended hereby, unless otherwise stated.
2.01         .  Effective as of the Amendment Closing Date, of the Agreement is hereby deleted in its entirety and replaced with the following:
Amendment to Section 14(a)
Section 14(a)
"(a)       .  Maintain, at all times, a ratio of (i) (A) cash, (B) cash equivalents, (C) account receivables, (D) marketable securities available for sale, (E) royalty advance prepayments, to (ii) current liabilities net of any pre-payments related to those current liabilities not included in subsection (i) above of not less than 0.80 to 1.00.  Cash, cash equivalents,
Quick Ratio
plus
plus
plus
plus
accounts receivable and current liabilities are defined according to generally accepted accounting principles, with the exception that current liabilities will include all indebtedness of the Borrower under the Revolving Note and all Documentary or Stand-by Letters of Credit excluding Standby Letters of Credit relating to any indebtedness of Borrower's subsidiaries already included subsection (ii) above."
2.02         .  Effective as of the Amendment Closing Date, the Borrower's, and Guarantors' notice address set forth in of the Agreement is hereby deleted in is entirety and replace with the following:
Amendment to Section 16
Section 16
Fossil Partners, L.P. 2323 North Central Expressway Richardson, Texas  75082 Attention:  Mike L. Kovar Fax:  (972) 498-9448
"if to the Borrower:
                                     
c/o Fossil, Inc. 2280 N. Greenville Avenue Richardson, Texas  75082 Attention:  Mike L. Kovar Fax:  (972) 498-9448"
if to Guarantors:
                                                     
3.01         .  The effectiveness of this Amendment is subject to the satisfaction of the following conditions precedent, unless specifically waived in writing by the Bank:
Conditions to Effectiveness
(a)         The Bank shall have received (i) this Amendment, duly executed by the Borrower and each Guarantor, (ii) the Second Amended and Restated Revolving Line of Credit Note, duly executed by the Borrower, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank and its counsel and (iii) the Amended and Restated Stock Pledge Agreement, duly executed by Fossil, Inc., in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank and its counsel (the "Stock Pledge Agreement");
(b)         There shall have been no material adverse change in the business or financial condition of the Borrower or any Guarantor;
(c)         There shall be no material adverse litigation, either pending or threatened, against the Borrower or any Guarantor that could reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on the business or financial condition of the Borrower or such Guarantor;
2
(d)         The representations and warranties contained herein and in the Agreement and the other Loan Documents, as each is amended hereby, shall be true and correct in all material respects as of the date hereof, as if made on the date hereof;
(e)         No default or Event of Default under the Agreement, as amended hereby, shall have occurred and be continuing, unless such default or Event of Default has been specifically waived in writing by the Bank;
(f)          All requisite corporate, partnership or trust proceedings, as appropriate, shall have been taken the Borrower and each Guarantor to authorize the execution, delivery and performance of this Amendment, and such proceedings and other legal matters incident thereto shall be satisfactory to the Bank and its legal counsel; and
(g)         The Bank shall have received from the Company or the Borrower, as appropriate, all fees and expenses (if any) required to be paid to the Bank pursuant to the Agreement, as amended hereby.
4.01         Nothing contained herein shall be construed as a waiver by the Bank of any covenant or provision of the Agreement, the other Loan Documents, this Amendment, or of any other contract or instrument between the Borrower and/or the Guarantors and the Bank, and the failure of the Bank at any time or times hereafter to require strict performance by the Borrower and/or any Guarantor of any provision thereof shall not waive, affect or diminish any right of the Bank to thereafter demand strict compliance therewith.  The Bank hereby reserves all rights granted under the Agreement, the other Loan Documents, this Amendment and any other contract or instrument between the Borrower and/or the Guarantors and the Bank.
5.01         .  The terms and provisions set forth in this Amendment shall modify and supersede all inconsistent terms and provisions set forth in the Agreement and the other Loan Documents, and, except as expressly modified and superseded by this Amendment, the terms and provisions of the Agreement and the other Loan Documents are ratified and confirmed and shall continue in full force and effect.  The parties hereto agree that the Agreement and the other Loan Documents, as amended hereby, shall continue to be legal, valid, binding and enforceable in accordance with their respective terms.
General Ratifications
5.02         .  Each of the Guarantors hereby acknowledges and consents to all of the terms and conditions of this Amendment and the Revolving Note and hereby ratifies and confirms the Guaranty Agreement to which it is a party to or for the benefit of the Bank.  Each of the Guarantors hereby represents and acknowledges that it has no claims, counterclaims, offsets, credits or defenses to the Loan Documents or the performance of its
Ratification of Guaranties
3
obligations thereunder.  Furthermore, each Guarantor agrees that nothing contained in this Amendment or the Revolving Note shall adversely affect any right or remedy of the Bank under the Guaranty Agreement to which such Guarantor is a party.  Each Guarantor hereby agrees that with respect to the Guaranty Agreement to which it is a party, all references in such Guaranty Agreement to the "Guaranteed Obligations" shall include, without limitation, the obligations of the Borrower to the Bank under the Agreement, as amended hereby.  Finally, each of the Guarantors hereby represents and acknowledges that the execution and delivery of this Amendment and the other Loan Documents executed in connection herewith shall in no way change or modify its obligations as a guarantor, debtor, pledgor, assignor, obligor and/or grantor under its respective Guaranty Agreement (except as specifically provided in this ) and shall not constitute a waiver by the Bank of any of the Bank's rights against such Guarantor.
Section 5.02
5.03         .  The Company hereby agrees that the Stock Pledge Agreement is hereby expressly amended such that the definition of "Secured Obligations" contained therein includes, without limitation, all indebtedness and other obligations of the Borrower now or hereafter existing hereunder the Agreement, as amended hereby.  Furthermore, the Company hereby ratifies and reaffirms its obligations under the Stock Pledge Agreement, as the same is amended hereby, and represents and acknowledges that the Stock Pledge Agreement is not subject to any claims, counterclaims, defenses or offsets.  Finally, the Company hereby represents and acknowledges that the execution and delivery of this Amendment and the other Loan Documents executed in connection herewith shall in no way change or modify its obligations as a debtor, pledgor, assignor, obligor and/or grantor under the Stock Pledge Agreement (except as specifically provided this ) and shall not constitute a waiver by the Bank of any of the Bank's rights against the Company.
Ratification of Security Interests
Section 5.03
5.04         .  The Borrower and each of the Guarantors hereby jointly and severally represent and warrant to the Bank that (a) the execution, delivery and performance of this Amendment and any and all other Loan Documents executed and/or delivered in connection herewith have been duly authorized by all requisite corporate, partnership or trust proceedings, as appropriate, and will not contravene, or constitute a default under, any provision of applicable law or regulation or of the Agreement of Limited Partnership, Articles of Incorporation, By-Laws or Trust Agreement, as applicable, of the Borrower or any Guarantor, or of any mortgage, indenture, material contract, material agreement or other material instrument, or any judgment, order or decree, binding upon the Borrower or any Guarantor; (b) the officer(s) of the Borrower and each Guarantor executing and delivering this Amendment and any and all other Loan Documents executed and/or delivered in connection herewith are duly elected and are authorized, by resolution of the board of directors, board of managers or trustees (or other applicable governing body) of the Borrower and each such Guarantor, to execute on behalf of each such entity this Amendment and any and all other Loan Documents executed and/or delivered in connection herewith; (c) the representations and warranties contained in the Agreement and the other Loan Documents, as amended hereby, are true and correct on and as of the date hereof and on and as of the date of execution hereof as though made on and as of each such date; (d) no default or Event of Default under the Agreement, as amended hereby, has occurred and is continuing, unless such default or Event of Default has been specifically waived in writing by the Bank; and (e) the Borrower and the Guarantors are in full compliance with all
Representations and Warranties
4
covenants and agreements contained in the Agreement and the other Loan Documents, as amended hereby.
6.01         .  All representations and warranties made in the Agreement or any other Loan Documents, including, without limitation, any document furnished in connection with this Amendment, shall survive the execution and delivery of this Amendment and the other Loan Documents to be executed in connection herewith, and no investigation by the Bank or any closing shall affect the representations and warranties or the right of the Bank to rely upon them.
Survival of Representations and Warranties
6.02         .  Each of the Agreement and the other Loan Documents, and any and all other agreements, documents or instruments now or hereafter executed and delivered pursuant to the terms hereof or pursuant to the terms of the Agreement, as amended hereby, are hereby amended so that any reference in the Agreement and such other Loan Documents to the Agreement, shall mean a reference to the Agreement, as amended hereby.
Reference to Agreement
6.03         .  As provided in the Agreement, the Borrower agrees to pay on demand all reasonable costs and expenses incurred by the Bank in connection with the preparation, negotiation, and execution of this Amendment and the other Loan Documents executed pursuant hereto and any and all amendments, modifications, and supplements hereto or thereto, including, without limitation, the costs and fees of the Bank's legal counsel, and all costs and expenses incurred by the Bank in connection with the enforcement or preservation of any rights under the Agreement or any other Loan Document, in each case as amended hereby, including, without, limitation, the costs and fees of the Bank's legal counsel.
Expenses of the Bank
6.04         .  Any provision of this Amendment held by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid or unenforceable shall not impair or invalidate the remainder of this Amendment and the effect thereof shall be confined to the provision so held to be invalid or unenforceable.
Severability
6.05         .  This Amendment is binding upon and shall inure to the benefit of the Borrower, the Guarantors and the Bank and their respective successors and assigns.
Successors and Assigns
6.06         .  This Amendment may be executed in one or more counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original, but all of which when taken together shall constitute one and the same instrument.
Counterparts
6.07         .  No consent or waiver, express or implied, by the Bank to or for any breach of or deviation from any covenant or condition by the Borrower or any Guarantor shall be deemed a consent to or waiver of any other breach of the same or any other covenant, condition or duty.
Effect of Waiver
5
6.08         .  The headings, captions and arrangements used in this Amendment are for convenience only and shall not affect the interpretation of this Amendment.
Headings
6.09         .  THIS AMENDMENT AND ALL OTHER AGREEMENTS EXECUTED PURSUANT HERETO SHALL BE DEEMED TO HAVE BEEN MADE AND TO BE PERFORMABLE IN AND SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF TEXAS.
Applicable Law
6.10         .  THE AGREEMENT AND THE OTHER LOAN DOCUMENTS, EACH AS AMENDED HEREBY, REPRESENT THE ENTIRE EXPRESSION OF THE PARTIES WITH RESPECT TO THE SUBJECT MATTER HEREOF ON THE DATE THIS AMENDMENT IS EXECUTED.  THE AGREEMENT AND THE OTHER LOAN DOCUMENTS, AS AMENDED HEREBY, MAY NOT BE CONTRADICTED BY EVIDENCE OF PRIOR, CONTEMPORANEOUS OR SUBSEQUENT ORAL AGREEMENTS OF THE PARTIES.  THERE ARE NO UNWRITTEN ORAL AGREEMENTS BETWEEN THE PARTIES.  NO MODIFICATION, RESCISSION, WAIVER, RELEASE OR AMENDMENT OF ANY PROVISION OF THIS AMENDMENT SHALL BE MADE, EXCEPT BY A WRITTEN AGREEMENT SIGNED BY THE BORROWER, THE GUARANTORS AND THE BANK.
Final Agreement
6.11           The parties agree to be bound by the terms and provisions of the Bank's current Arbitration Program which is incorporated herein by reference and is acknowledged as received by the parties pursuant to which any and all disputes shall be resolved by mandatory binding arbitration upon the request of any party.
AGREEMENT FOR BINDING ARBITRATION.
6
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Amendment has been executed and is effective as of the date first above-written.
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.2
SECOND AMENDED AND RESTATED REVOLVING LINE OF CREDIT NOTE
 
FOR VALUE RECEIVED, the undersigned (hereinafter called "") does hereby unconditionally promise to pay to the order of a national banking association (""), at its office at 1445 Ross Avenue, 3rd Floor, MAC T5303-031, Dallas, Texas 75202, the principal sum of ($100,000,000.00), or such lesser amount as has been loaned or advanced by Payee to Maker hereunder, in lawful money of the United States of America, together with interest from the date hereof until maturity at the rates per annum provided below.
Maker
Wells Fargo Bank, National Association,
Payee
ONE HUNDRED MILLION AND NO/100 DOLLARS
1.             .  For purposes of this Second Amended and Restated Revolving Line of Credit Note (this ""), unless the context otherwise requires, the following terms shall have the definitions assigned to such terms as follows:
Definitions
Note
"" shall mean:
Business Day
(i)            for all purposes (other than as covered by clause (ii) below) any day except Saturday, Sunday or a day which in the United States is a legal holiday or a day on which banking institutions are authorized or required by law or other government action to close;
(ii)           with respect to all notices and determinations in connection with, and payments of principal and interest on, a LIBOR Balance, any day which is a Business Day described in clause (i) above and which is also a day for trading by and between banks in the interbank eurodollar market.
"" shall mean, with respect to Maker's payment, or conversion to a different Interest Option, of all or any portion of the then-outstanding principal amount of any LIBOR Balance on a day other than the last day of the LIBOR Interest Period related thereto, any loss, cost or expense incurred by Payee in redepositing such principal amount, including the sum of (i) the interest which, but for such payment, Payee would have earned in respect of such principal amount so paid for the remainder of LIBOR Interest Period applicable to such principal amount, reduced, if Payee is able to redeposit such principal amount so paid for the balance of such LIBOR Interest Period, by the interest earned by Payee as a result of so redepositing such principal amount, (ii) any expense or penalty incurred by Payee on redepositing such principal amount.
Consequential Loss
plus
"" shall mean a rate of interest based upon the LIBOR Base Rate or WFB Base Rate in effect at any time pursuant to an Interest Notice.
Contract Rate
"" and the sign "" shall mean lawful currency of the United States of America.
Dollars
$
1
"" shall mean, with respect to each LIBOR Interest Period the maximum reserve percentage (expressed as a decimal) in effect on the first day of any LIBOR Interest Period, as prescribed by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (or any successor), for determining reserve requirements applicable to "eurocurrency liabilities" pursuant to Regulation D or any other then applicable regulation of the Board of Governors (or any successor) which prescribes reserve requirements applicable to "eurocurrency liabilities," as presently defined in Regulation D, or any eurocurrency funding.
Eurocurrency Reserve Percentage
"" shall mean an Event of Default as such term is defined in the Loan Agreement.
Event of Default
"" shall mean, on any date, the amount by which (i) the amount of all interest which would have accrued prior to such date on the principal of this Note (had the applicable Contract Rate at all times been in effect without limitation by the Maximum Rate) (ii) the aggregate amount of interest actually received by Payee on this Note on or prior to such date.
Excess Interest Amount
exceeds
"" means, for any day, the weighted average of the rates on overnight Federal funds transactions with members of the Federal Reserve System arranged by Federal funds brokers, as published on the immediately following Business Day by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York or, if such rate is not published for any Business Day, the average of the quotations for the day of the requested advance received by Payee from three Federal funds brokers of recognized standing selected by Payee.
Federal Funds Effective Rate
"" shall mean the written notice given by Maker to Payee of the Interest Options selected hereunder.  Each Interest Notice shall specify the Interest Option selected, the amount of the unpaid principal balance of this Note to bear interest at the rate selected and, if the LIBOR Base Rate is specified, the length of the applicable LIBOR Interest Period.
Interest Notice
"" shall have the meaning assigned to such term in hereof.
Interest Option
paragraph 7
"" shall mean (i) in the case of any WFB Base Rate Balance, the fifteenth (15th) day of the last month of each calendar quarter during the term hereof, commencing December 15, 2006, and at the maturity of this Note, and (ii) in the case of any LIBOR Balance, the last day of the corresponding LIBOR Interest Period with respect to such LIBOR Balance and at the maturity of this Note.
Interest Payment Date
"" shall mean any principal balance of this Note which, pursuant to an Interest Notice, bears interest at a rate based upon the LIBOR Base Rate for the LIBOR Interest Period specified in such Interest Notice.
LIBOR Balance
"" shall mean, with respect to each LIBOR Interest Period, on any day thereof the quotient of (i) the LIBOR Rate with respect to such LIBOR Interest Period, (ii) the remainder of 1.0 the Eurocurrency Reserve Percentage in effect on such day.
LIBOR Base Rate
divided by
minus
"" shall mean, with respect to any LIBOR Balance, a period commencing: (i) on any date upon which, pursuant to an Interest Notice, the principal amount of such LIBOR Balance begins to accrue interest at the LIBOR Base Rate, or (ii) on the last day of
LIBOR Interest Period
2
the immediately preceding LIBOR Interest Period in the case of a rollover to a successive LIBOR Interest Period, and ending one month, two months or three months thereafter as Maker shall elect in accordance with the provisions hereof; provided, that: (A) any LIBOR Interest Period which would otherwise end on a day which is not a Business Day shall be extended to the next succeeding Business Day unless such Business Day falls in another calendar month, in which case such LIBOR Interest Period shall end on the next preceding Business Day; and (B) any LIBOR Interest Period which begins on the last Business Day of a calendar month (or on a day for which there is no numerically corresponding day in the calendar month at the end of such LIBOR Interest Period) shall, subject to clauses (C) below and (A) above, end on the last Business Day of a calendar month; and (C) any LIBOR Interest Period which would otherwise end after September 20, 2007 shall end on September 20, 2007.
"" shall mean, with respect to each LIBOR Interest Period, the rate of interest determined by Payee to be the arithmetic average (rounded upward, if necessary to the nearest 1/16th of 1%) of the per annum rates of interest at which Dollar deposits with a maturity equal to the proposed LIBOR Interest Period (and in an amount approximating the LIBOR Balance) would be offered to Payee by major banks in the interbank eurodollar market at approximately 8:00 a.m. (Dallas, Texas time) on the Business Day immediately preceding the first day of such LIBOR Interest Period.
LIBOR Rate
"" shall mean that certain Loan Agreement, dated as of September 23, 2004, by and among Maker, Payee and the subsidiaries and/or affiliates of Maker from time to time a party thereto, as guarantors, as amended, restated, supplemented and/or modified from time to time.
Loan Agreement
"" as used herein, shall mean, with respect to the holder hereof, the maximum non-usurious interest rate, if any, that at any time, or from time to time, may be contracted for, taken, reserved, charged, or received on the indebtedness evidenced by this Note under the laws which are presently in effect of the United States and the State of Texas applicable to such holder and such indebtedness or, to the extent permitted by law, under such applicable laws of the United States and the State of Texas which may hereafter be in effect and which allow a higher maximum non-usurious interest rate than applicable laws now allow.  To the extent that any of the optional interest rate ceilings provided in Chapter 303 of the Texas Finance Code, as amended from time to time (as amended, the ""), may be available for application to any loan(s) or extension(s) of credit under this Note for the purpose of determining the Maximum Rate hereunder pursuant to the Texas Finance Code, the applicable "monthly ceiling" (as such term is defined in Chapter 303 of the Texas Finance Code) from time to time in effect shall be used to the extent that it is so available, and if such "monthly ceiling" at any time is not so available then the applicable "weekly ceiling" (as such term is defined in Chapter 303 of the Texas Finance Code) from time to time in effect shall be used to the extent that it is so available.
Maximum Rate,
Texas Finance Code
"" shall mean Regulation D of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System from time to time in effect and shall include any successor or other regulation relating to reserve requirements applicable to member banks of the Federal Reserve System.
Regulation D
"" shall mean $100,000,000.00.
Total Commitment
3
"" shall mean Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, a national banking association, and its successors and assigns.
WFB
"" shall mean, on any date of determination, a variable rate of interest per annum equal to the higher of either (a) the WFB Prime Rate, or (b) the Federal Funds Effective Rate .
WFB Base Rate
plus
one-half of one percent (0.50%)
"" shall mean that portion of the principal balance of this Note bearing interest at a rate based upon the WFB Base Rate.
WFB Base Rate Balance
"" shall mean the rate of interest most recently announced within Payee at its principal office in San Francisco as its prime rate and is a base rate for calculating interest on certain loans.  The rate announced by Payee as its prime rate may or may not be the most favorable rate charged by Payee to its customers.  Each change in the WFB Prime Rate shall become effective without prior notice to Maker automatically as of the opening of business on the date such change is announced within Payee.
WFB Prime Rate
2.             .  A request for an advance under this Note shall be made, or shall be deemed to be made, if Maker gives Payee notice of its intention to borrow, in which notice Maker shall specify (i) the aggregate principal amount of such advance and (ii) the requested date of such advance, which shall be a Business Day.  Any such request for an advance shall be accompanied by an Interest Notice and shall be made (i) no later than 11:00 a.m. Dallas, Texas time at least three (3) Business Days prior to the requested advance date if the principal balance of such advance, pursuant to such Interest Notice, is to bear interest at a rate based upon the LIBOR Base Rate and (ii) no later than 11:00 a.m. Dallas, Texas time or the requested advance date if the principal balance of such advance, pursuant to such Interest Notice, is to bear interest at a rate based upon the WFB Base Rate.  Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, Payee shall have the right to refuse to accept a request for an advance under this Note if at the date any such request is made or any such advance is to be made there exists a default or an Event of Default under this Note or the Loan Agreement.  As an accommodation to Maker, Payee may permit telephonic requests for loans and electronic transmittal of instructions, authorizations, agreements or reports to Payee by Maker.  Unless Maker specifically directs Payee in writing not to accept or act upon telephonic or electronic communications from Maker, Payee shall have no liability to Maker for any loss or damage suffered by Maker as a result of Payee's honoring of any requests, execution of any instructions, authorizations or agreements or reliance on any reports communicated to Payee telephonically or electronically and purporting to have been sent to Payee by any individual from time to time designated by Maker as an authorized officer and Payee shall have no duty to verify the origin or authenticity of any such communication.
Manner of Borrowing; Advance Requests
3.             .  Interest on the unpaid principal balance of this Note shall be due and payable on each Interest Payment Date as it accrues.  The unpaid principal balance of this Note shall be due and payable in full on September 20, 2007.
Payments of Interest and Principal
4.             .  The unpaid principal of the WFB Base Rate Balance shall bear interest at a rate per annum which shall from day to day be equal to the lesser of (i) the higher of either (a) the WFB Base Rate in effect from day to day, or (b)
Rates of Interest
minus
one percent (1.00%)
three
4
, or (ii) the Maximum Rate. The unpaid principal of each LIBOR Balance shall bear interest at a rate per annum which shall from day to day be equal to the lesser of (i) the LIBOR Base Rate for the LIBOR Interest Period in effect with respect to such LIBOR Balance , or (ii) the Maximum Rate.  Each determination by Payee of the LIBOR Base Rate shall, in the absence of manifest error, be conclusive and binding.  Interest on this Note with respect to each WFB Base Rate Balance and each LIBOR Balance shall be calculated on the basis of the actual days elapsed in a year consisting of 360 days.
percent (3.0%)
plus
one-half of one percent (0.50%)
5.             .  If on each Interest Payment Date or any other date on which interest payments are required hereunder, Payee does not receive interest on this Note computed at the Contract Rate because such Contract Rate exceeds or has exceeded the Maximum Rate, then Maker shall, upon the written demand of Payee, pay to Payee in addition to the interest otherwise required to be paid hereunder, on each Interest Payment Date thereafter, the Excess Interest Amount (calculated as of such later Interest Payment Date); provided that in no event shall Maker be required to pay interest at a rate exceeding the Maximum Rate effective during such period.
Interest Recapture
6.             .  From and after the occurrence and during the continuance of an Event of Default, this Note shall bear interest at any rate equal to or less than the Maximum Rate, as chosen by Payee, at its discretion.  All past due principal and, to the extent permitted by applicable law, interest upon this Note shall bear interest at any rate equal to or less than the Maximum Rate, as chosen by Payee, at its discretion.
Default Rate of Interest
7.             .  Subject to the provisions hereof, Maker shall have the option (an "") to designate portions of the unpaid principal balance hereof to bear interest at a rate based upon the LIBOR Base Rate or WFB Base Rate as provided in hereof; , , that (i) in the case of selection of the WFB Base Rate, such advance shall not be less than (or, if greater than in integral multiples of ) or (ii) in the case of the selection of the LIBOR Base Rate, the LIBOR Balance for a particular LIBOR Interest Period shall not be less than (or, if greater than , in integral multiples of ); , that no more than five (5) LIBOR Balances shall be outstanding at any one time under this Note; , , that the sum of the aggregate amount of all LIBOR Balances and WFB Base Rate Balances outstanding under this Note shall at no time exceed the Total Commitment.  The option of Maker to designate portions of the principal of this Note to bear interest at a rate based upon the LIBOR Base Rate or WFB Base Rate shall be exercised in the manner provided below:
Interest Option
Interest Option
paragraph 4
provided
however
$100,000
$100,000
$100,000
$500,000
$500,000
$100,000
provided
further,
however
provided
further
however
(i)            .  Maker shall request advances under this Note in accordance with, and in the manner prescribed by, hereof.  In connection with any such advance request, Maker shall give Payee an Interest Notice indicating the Interest Option selected with respect to the principal amount of the proposed borrowing.
At Time of Borrowing
paragraph 2
(ii)           .  At least three (3) Business Days prior to the termination of any LIBOR Interest Period, Maker shall give Payee an Interest Notice indicating the Interest Option to be applicable to the corresponding LIBOR Balance, as appropriate, upon the expiration of such LIBOR Interest Period.  If the required Interest Notice shall not have been timely received by Payee prior to the expiration of the then
At Expiration of LIBOR Interest
5
relevant LIBOR Interest Period, Maker shall be deemed (a) to have selected a rate based upon the WFB Base Rate to be applicable to such LIBOR Balance, and such LIBOR Balance shall thereafter be a WFB Base Rate Balance upon the expiration of such LIBOR Interest Period and (b) to have given Payee notice of such selections.
(iii)          .  During any period in which any portion of the principal hereof bears interest at a rate based upon the WFB Base Rate, Maker shall have the right, on any Business Day (the ""), to convert all or a portion of such principal amount from the WFB Base Rate Balance to a LIBOR Balance by giving Payee an Interest Notice of such selection at least three (3) Business Days prior to such Conversion Date for any LIBOR Balance.
Conversion From WFB Base Rate
Conversion Date
8.            
Special Provisions For LIBOR Pricing
(a)           .  If Payee reasonably determines that, by reason of circumstances affecting the interbank market generally, deposits in Dollars (in the applicable amounts) are not being offered to Payee in the interbank market for any LIBOR Interest Period, or that the rate at which such Dollar deposits are being offered will not adequately and fairly reflect the cost to Payee of making or maintaining a LIBOR Balance for such LIBOR Interest Period, Payee shall forthwith give notice thereof to Maker, whereupon until Payee notifies Maker that the circumstances giving rise to such suspension no longer exist, (i) the right of Maker to select an Interest Option based upon the LIBOR Base Rate shall be suspended, and (ii) Maker shall convert each LIBOR Balance into the WFB Base Rate Balance in accordance with the provisions hereof on the last day of the then-current LIBOR Interest Period applicable to such LIBOR Balance.
Inadequacy of LIBOR Pricing
(b)           .  If, after the date hereof, the adoption of any applicable law, rule or regulation, or any change therein, or any change in the interpretation or administration thereof by any governmental authority, central bank or comparable agency charged with the interpretation or administration thereof, or compliance by Payee with any request or directive (whether or not having the force of law) of any such authority, central bank or comparable agency shall make it unlawful or impossible for Payee to make or maintain a LIBOR Balance, Payee shall so notify Maker.  Upon receipt of such notice, Maker shall convert such LIBOR Balance into the WFB Base Rate Balance, on either (i) the last day of the then-current LIBOR Interest Period applicable to such LIBOR Balance if Payee may lawfully continue to maintain and fund such LIBOR Balance to such day, or (ii) immediately, if Payee may not lawfully continue to maintain such LIBOR Balance to such day.
Illegality
(c)           .
Increased Costs for LIBOR Balances
(i)            If, after the date hereof, the adoption of any applicable law, rule or regulation, or any change therein, or any change in the interpretation or administration thereof by any governmental authority, central bank or comparable agency charged with the interpretation or administration thereof, or compliance by Payee with any request or directive (whether or not having the force of law) of any such authority, central bank or comparable agency shall subject Payee to any tax (including without limitation any United States interest equalization or similar tax, however named), duty or other charge
6
with respect to the LIBOR Balances, this Note or Payee's obligation to compute interest on the principal balance of this Note at a rate based upon the LIBOR Base Rate, or shall change the basis of taxation of payments to Payee of the principal of or interest on the LIBOR Balances or any other amounts due under this Note in respect of the LIBOR Balances or Payee's obligation to compute the interest on the balance of this Note at a rate based upon the LIBOR Base Rate (except for changes in the rate on the tax on the overall net income of Payee imposed by the jurisdiction in which Payee's principal executive office is located); or
(ii)           if, after the date hereof,  any governmental authority, central bank or other comparable authority shall at any time impose, modify or deem applicable any reserve (including, without limitation, any imposed by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System but excluding any reserve requirement included in the Eurocurrency Reserve Percentage of Payee), special deposit or similar requirement against assets of, deposits with or for the account of, or credit extended by, Payee, or shall impose on Payee (or its eurocurrency lending office) or the interbank market any other condition affecting a LIBOR Balance, this Note or Payee's obligation to compute the interest on the balance of this Note at a rate based upon the LIBOR Base Rate; and the result of any of the foregoing is to increase the cost to Payee of maintaining a LIBOR Balance, or to reduce the amount of any sum received or receivable by Payee under this Note by an amount deemed by Payee to be material, then upon demand by Payee, Maker shall pay to Payee such additional amount or amounts as will compensate Payee for such increased cost or reduction, the amount of which, when aggregated with interest to be paid under the LIBOR Balance, does not exceed the interest which would have been payable had the balance been calculated using the WFB Base Rate.  Payee will promptly notify Maker of any event of which it has knowledge, occurring after the date hereof, which will entitle Payee to compensation pursuant to this paragraph.  A certificate of Payee claiming compensation under this paragraph and setting forth in reasonable detail the additional amount or amounts to be paid to Payee hereunder shall be conclusive in the absence of manifest error.
(d)           .  If notice has been given requiring a LIBOR Balance to be repaid or converted to the WFB Base Rate Balance, then unless and until Payee notifies Maker that the circumstances giving rise to such repayment no longer apply, the Interest Option shall be a rate based upon the WFB Base Rate.  If Payee notifies Maker that the circumstances giving rise to such repayment or conversion no longer apply, Maker may thereafter select a rate based upon the LIBOR Base Rate in accordance with the terms of this Note.
Effect on Balances
9.             .  Subject to the terms of the definitions of LIBOR Interest Period, should the principal of, or any interest on, this Note become due and payable on any day other than a Business Day, the maturity thereof shall be extended to the next succeeding Business Day, and interest shall be payable with respect to such extension.  All payments of principal of, and interest on, this Note shall be made by Maker to Payee at Payee's principal banking office in Dallas, Texas in federal or other immediately available funds.  Payments made to Payee by Maker hereunder shall be applied first to accrued interest and then to principal.
Extension, Place and Application of Payments
7
10.           .  Maker may repay any WFB Base Rate Balance at any time without premium or penalty and without prior notice.  Maker may prepay any LIBOR Balance prior to the expiration of the applicable LIBOR Interest Period upon three (3) Business Days prior written notice subject to Maker's payment of the Consequential Loss incurred by Payee as a result of the timing of such prepayment; , , that Maker shall not have the option to designate any portion of the unpaid principal balance hereof to bear interest at a rate based upon the LIBOR Base Rate for a period of ninety (90) days following any such prepayment of any LIBOR Balance.  Any repayment or permitted prepayment of principal made hereunder shall not be less than $100,000 (or, if greater than $100,000, in integral multiples of $100,000, or such lesser amount as is then outstanding under this Note).  Any repayment or permitted prepayment of principal made hereunder shall be made together with interest accrued through the date of such repayment or prepayment, as applicable.
Repayments of WFB Base Rate Balances; Prepayments of LIBOR Balances; Consequential Loss
provided
however
11.           .  Payee will use its best efforts to supply the Maker advance notice of the interest and/or principal amounts that the Payee has calculated are due at the scheduled payment dates at least one day in advance, assuming the unpaid principal balance and interest rate remain the same until such scheduled payment date.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, no failure by the Payee to give such notice will reduce the obligation of the Maker to pay such amounts on the date they become due.
Advance Notice
12.           or made as follows:  (a) if sent by hand delivery, upon delivery; (b) if sent by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, upon receipt (as indicated on the return receipt); and (c) if sent by facsimile, upon receipt (which shall be confirmed by a confirmation report from the sender's facsimile machine)
Notices
.  All notices required or permitted hereunder shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been given
, addressed to Maker or Payee at the following respective addresses or such other address as such party may from time to time designate by written notice to the other:
Wells Fargo Bank, National Association 1445 Ross Avenue, 3rd Floor MAC T5303-031 Dallas, Texas  75202 Attention:  Susan K. Nugent, Vice President Fax:  (214) 953-3982
Payee:
                                           
Maker:
                                          
Fossil Partners, L.P. 2323 North Central Expressway Richardson, Texas 75082 Attention:  Mike L. Kovar Fax:  (972) 498-9448
13.           .  If this Note is placed in the hands of any attorney for collection, or if it is collected through any legal proceeding at law or in equity or in bankruptcy, receivership or other court proceedings, Maker agrees to pay all costs of collection including, but not limited to, court costs and reasonable attorneys' fees.
Legal Fees
8
14.           .  Maker and each surety, endorser, guarantor and other party ever liable for payment of any sums of money payable on this Note, jointly and severally waive presentment and demand for payment, protest, notice of protest, intention to accelerate, acceleration and non-payment, or other notice of default, and agree that their liability under this Note shall not be affected by any renewal or extension in the time of payment hereof, or in any indulgences, or by any release or change in any security for the payment of this Note, and hereby consent to any and all renewals, extensions, indulgences, releases or changes, regardless of the number of such renewals, extensions, indulgences, releases or changes.
Waivers
No waiver by Payee of any of its rights or remedies hereunder or under any other document evidencing or securing this Note or otherwise shall be considered a waiver of any other subsequent right or remedy of Payee; no delay or omission in the exercise or enforcement by Payee of any rights or remedies shall ever be construed as a waiver of any right or remedy of Payee; and no exercise or enforcement of any such rights or remedies shall ever be held to exhaust any right or remedy of Payee.
15.           .  If Maker fails or refuses to pay any part of the principal of or interest upon this Note as the same become due, or upon the occurrence and during the continuance, of any Event of Default, then in any such event the holder hereof may, at its option, declare the entire unpaid balance of principal and accrued interest on this Note to be immediately due and payable, and foreclose all liens and security interests securing payment hereof or any part hereof.
Acceleration
16.           .  Any provision herein, or in any document securing this Note, or any other document executed or delivered in connection herewith, or in any other agreement or commitment, whether written or oral, expressed or implied, to the contrary notwithstanding, neither Payee nor any holder hereof shall in any event be entitled to receive or collect, nor shall or may amounts received hereunder be credited, so that Payee or any holder hereof shall be paid, as interest, a sum greater than the maximum amount permitted by applicable law to be charged to the person, partnership, firm or corporation primarily obligated to pay this Note at the time in question.  If any construction of this Note or any document securing this Note, or any and all other papers, agreements or commitments, indicate a different right given to Payee or any holder hereof to ask for, demand or receive any larger sum as interest, such is a mistake in calculation or wording which this clause shall override and control, it being the intention of the parties that this Note, and all other instruments securing the payment of this Note or executed or delivered in connection herewith shall in all things comply with applicable law and proper adjustments shall automatically be made accordingly.  In the event that Payee or any holder hereof ever receives, collects or applies as interest, any sum in excess of the Maximum Rate, if any, such excess amount shall be applied to the reduction of the unpaid principal balance of this Note, and if this Note is paid in full, any remaining excess shall be paid to Maker.  In determining whether or not the interest paid or payable, under any specific contingency, exceeds the Maximum Rate, if any, Maker and Payee or any holder hereof shall, to the maximum extent permitted under applicable law: (a) characterize any non-principal payment as an expense or fee rather than as interest, (b) exclude voluntary prepayments and the effects thereof, (c) "spread" the total amount of interest throughout the entire term of this Note; provided that if this Note is paid and performed in full prior to the end of the full contemplated term hereof, and if the interest received for the actual period of existence thereof exceeds the Maximum Rate, if any,
Interest Laws; Spreading
9
Payee or any holder hereof shall refund to Maker the amount of such excess, or credit the amount of such excess against the aggregate unpaid principal balance of all advances made by the Payee or any holder hereof under this Note at the time in question.
17.           .  This Note is being executed and delivered, and is intended to be performed in the State of Texas.  Except to the extent that the laws of the United States may apply to the terms hereof, the substantive laws of the State of Texas shall govern the validity, construction, enforcement and interpretation of this Note. In the event of a dispute involving this Note or any other instruments executed in connection herewith, the undersigned irrevocably agrees that venue for such dispute shall lie in any court of competent jurisdiction in Dallas County, Texas to the extent such dispute is not resolved by binding arbitration pursuant to the Payee's current Arbitration Program described in below.
Choice of Law
Section 19
18.           .  This Note is executed in connection with the Loan Agreement and the holder hereof is entitled to all the benefits provided therein and in the other agreements, documents, instruments and certificates entered into in connection with the Loan Agreement.
Loan Agreement
19.             The parties agree to be bound by the terms and provisions of the Payee's current Arbitration Program which is incorporated by reference herein and is acknowledged as received by the parties pursuant to which any and all disputes shall be resolved by mandatory binding arbitration upon the request of any party.
.
AGREEMENT FOR BINDING ARBITRATION
20.           .  This Note increases, amends, modifies and restates, but does not extinguish the indebtedness evidenced by, that certain Amended and Restated Revolving Line of Credit Note dated September 22, 2005, in the stated principal amount of $100,000,000, executed by Maker and payable to the order of Payee and that certain Revolving Line of Credit Note dated September 23, 2004, in the stated principal amount of $50,000,000, executed by Maker and payable to the order of Payee.
Amendment and Restatement
[THE REMAINDER OF PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK]
10
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Maker has caused this Note to be duly executed and delivered in Dallas, Texas, as of the date first above written.
 

Exhibit 10.3
AMENDED AND RESTATED STOCK PLEDGE AGREEMENT
(this "") is entered into as of September 21, 2006, between , a Delaware corporation (""), and , a national banking association ("").
THIS AMENDED AND RESTATED STOCK PLEDGE AGREEMENT
Agreement
FOSSIL, INC.
Pledgor
WELLS FARGO BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
Pledgee
In consideration of any extension of credit heretofore or hereafter made by Pledgee to Fossil Partners, L.P., a Texas limited partnership (""), and as collateral security for and to secure the prompt payment and performance in full of all obligations of Pledgor to Pledgee under that certain Guaranty Agreement, dated as of September 23, 2004 (as hereinafter amended, modified and/or restated from time to time), pursuant to which Pledgor has absolutely and unconditionally guaranteed to Pledgee the prompt payment and performance in full of all now existing or hereafter arising obligations, liabilities and indebtedness of Borrower to Pledgee under that certain Loan Agreement dated as of September 23, 2004 by and among Pledgee, Borrower, Pledgor and the subsidiaries and/or affiliates of Pledgor from time to time a party thereto, as guarantors (as hereinafter amended, modified and/or restated from time to time, the ""), Pledgor hereby assigns to Pledgee and grants to Pledgee a continuing security interest in sixty-five percent (65%) of all issued and outstanding shares of capital stock (including, without limitation, all shares of common stock represented by the stock certificates identified on attached hereto) of each of Fossil Europe B.V., Fossil (East) Limited, Fossil Europe GmbH, Fossil UK and Fossil Group Europe GmbH (each individually, a "Subsidiary" and collectively, the ""), whether now or hereafter issued by the Subsidiaries, together with all proceeds, products and increases thereof and substitutions and replacements therefor (collectively, the "").  The obligations referenced above, together with any subsequent renewals, extensions, modifications or increases thereof, are collectively referred to as the "."
1.
            
Borrower
Loan Agreement
Schedule I
Subsidiaries
Collateral
Secured Obligations
Pledgor represents and warrants that (i) Pledgor holds absolute ownership of the Collateral, free and clear of all liens and encumbrances; (ii) there are no restrictions upon the transfer of any of the Collateral, other than as may appear and may be referenced on the face of the certificates or other than arising under applicable state or federal securities laws or laws of the jurisdiction in which such Subsidiaries are incorporated; (iii) Pledgor owns directly or indirectly (A) 70% of the issued and outstanding capital stock of Fossil Europe B.V., and (B) 100% of the issued and outstanding capital stock of each of Fossil (East) Ltd, Fossil Europe GmbH, Fossil UK and Fossil Group Europe GmbH; (iv) there are no existing obligations to issue capital stock or securities convertible into capital stock of any Subsidiary and in no event will Pledgor permit any such stock or securities to be issued prior to payment in full of the Secured Obligations; and (v) there are no existing securities or obligations of any Subsidiary the amount of which obligation is based, in whole or in part, on the value of any Subsidiary's capital stock or any increase thereof, nor will Pledgor permit any such securities or obligations to exist prior to payment in full of the Secured Obligations.
2.
            
In furtherance of Pledgee's security interest in the Collateral, Pledgor agrees to deliver to Pledgee, on the date hereof (to the extent not previously delivered to Pledgee), the stock certificates identified on Schedule I attached hereto, together with stock powers duly executed in blank by Pledgor.  Pledgee acknowledges that notwithstanding Pledgor's delivery to Pledgee of stock certificates representing in excess of sixty-five percent (65%) of the issued and outstanding shares of capital stock of the Subsidiaries, Pledgee's security interest hereunder shall be limited to sixty-five percent (65%) of the issued and outstanding shares of capital stock of the Subsidiaries.
3.
            
With respect to the Collateral and all proceeds, products and increases thereof and substitutions therefor, Pledgor hereby appoints Pledgee its attorney-in-fact, to arrange for the transfer of the Collateral on the books of the Subsidiaries to the name of Pledgee subsequent to the occurrence and during the continuance of any Event of Default (as hereinafter defined) hereunder.  However, Pledgee shall be under no obligation to do so.
4.
            
During the term of this Agreement, provided no Event of Default has occurred and then exists hereunder, Pledgor shall have the right, where applicable, to vote the Collateral on all corporate questions, and Pledgee shall, if necessary, execute due and timely proxies in favor of Pledgor for this purpose; , , that Pledgor will not be entitled to exercise any such right if the result thereof could reasonably be expected to materially and adversely affect the rights inuring to Pledgee hereunder or the rights and remedies of Pledgee under this Agreement or the ability of Pledgee to exercise the same.
5.
            
provided
however
Upon the occurrence of any Event of Default and during the continuance thereof, Pledgee may exercise all of the rights and privileges in connection with the Collateral (including, without limitation, voting rights) to which a transferee may be entitled as the record holder thereof, together with the rights and privileges otherwise granted hereunder.  Pledgee shall be under no obligation to exercise any of such rights or privileges.
6.
            
If, with the consent of Pledgee, Pledgor shall substitute or exchange other securities in place of those herein mentioned, all of the rights and privileges of Pledgee and all of the obligations of Pledgor with respect to the securities originally pledged or held as Collateral hereunder shall be forthwith applicable to such substituted or exchanged securities.
7.
            
Upon the occurrence of any Event of Default and during the continuance thereof, Pledgee shall be authorized to collect all dividends, interest payments, and other amounts (including amounts received or receivable upon redemption or repurchase) that may be, or become, due on any of the Collateral.  If Pledgor receives any such dividends, payments or amounts after the occurrence and during the continuance of an Event of Default, it shall immediately endorse and deliver the same to Pledgee in the form received.  All such amounts which Pledgee receives and retains in accordance with the terms of this paragraph 8 shall be applied to reduce the principal amount outstanding on the Secured Obligations in inverse order of maturity.  Pledgee is, furthermore, authorized to give receipts in the name of Pledgor for any amounts so received.  Pledgee shall be under no obligation to collect any such amounts.
8.
            
In the event that, during the term of this Agreement, subscription warrants or any other rights or options shall be issued in connection with the Collateral, such warrants, rights, or
9.
            
options shall be immediately assigned, if necessary, by Pledgor to Pledgee.  If any such warrants, rights, or options are exercised by Pledgor, all new securities so acquired by Pledgor shall be immediately assigned to Pledgee, shall become part of the Collateral and shall be endorsed to, delivered to and held by Pledgee under the terms of this Agreement in the same manner as the securities originally pledged.
In the event that, during the term of this Agreement, any share, dividend, reclassification, readjustment or other change is declared or made in the capital structure of any Subsidiary, all new, substituted and additional shares, or other securities and related stock certificates, issued by reason of any such change shall become part of the Collateral and shall be endorsed to, delivered to and held by Pledgee under the terms of this Agreement in the same manner as the securities originally pledged hereunder (except to the extent that any such pledge by Pledgor to Pledgee would cause more than sixty-five percent (65%) of the issued and outstanding shares of capital stock of any Subsidiary to become subject to Pledgee's security interest hereunder).
10.
          
Pledgor authorizes Pledgee, without notice or demand, and without affecting the liability of Pledgor hereunder, from time to time to:
11.
          
hold security in addition to and other than the Collateral for the payment of the Secured Obligations or any part thereof, and exchange, enforce, waive and release any Collateral or any part thereof, or any other such security, or part thereof;
(A)
         
release any of the endorsers or guarantors of the Secured Obligations secured hereunder or any part thereof, or any other person whomsoever liable for or on account of such Secured Obligations;
(B)
          
on the transfer of all or any part of the Secured Obligations secured hereunder, Pledgee may assign all or any part of Pledgee's security interest in the Collateral and shall be fully discharged thereafter from all liability and responsibility with respect to the Collateral so transferred, provided that in no event shall Pledgee be liable for any act or omission or negligent act or negligent omission with respect to the Collateral, other than acts or omissions constituting gross negligence, willful misconduct or tortious breach of contract.  The transferee of the Collateral shall be vested with the rights, powers and remedies of Pledgee hereunder, and with respect to any Collateral not so transferred, Pledgee shall retain all rights, powers and remedies hereby given; and
(C)
          
Pledgor hereby waives any right to require Pledgee to proceed against Pledgor, Borrower or any other person whomsoever, to proceed against or exhaust any collateral or any other security held by Pledgee, or to pursue any other remedy available to Pledgee.  Pledgor further waives any defense arising by reason of any liability or other defense of Pledgor or of any other person.  Pledgor shall have no right to require Pledgee to marshal collateral.
(D)
         
It shall not be necessary for Pledgee to inquire into the powers of Pledgor or the officers, directors or agents acting or purporting to act on behalf of Pledgor, and any obligations made or created in reliance on the professed exercise of such powers shall be secured hereunder.
12.
          
To the extent permitted by applicable law and in the Loan Agreement, Pledgee shall be under no duty or obligation whatsoever to make or give any presentments, demands for performance, notices of non-performance, protests, notices of protest, or notices of dishonor in connection with the Secured Obligations.
13.
          
The occurrence of an event of default under and as defined in the Loan Agreement shall, at the option of Pledgee, constitute an "" under this Agreement.
14.
          
Event of Default
Upon the occurrence and during the continuance of any Event of Default, the Secured Obligations shall, at the option of Pledgee, become immediately due and payable, and Pledgee shall have all rights and remedies as a secured party under any UCC (as hereinafter defined), and such additional rights and remedies to which a secured party is entitled under the laws in effect in all relevant jurisdictions, and, in this connection, subject to applicable regulatory and legal requirements, Pledgee may sell the Collateral, or any part thereof, at public or private sale or at any broker's board or on any securities exchange or electronic trading facility, for cash, upon credit or for future delivery as Pledgee shall deem appropriate.  Pledgee shall be authorized at any such sale (if it deems it advisable to do so) to restrict the prospective bidders or purchasers to persons who will represent and agree that they are purchasing the Collateral for their own account for investment and not with a view to the distribution or sale thereof, and upon consummation of any such sale Pledgee shall have the right to assign, transfer and deliver to the purchaser or purchasers thereof the Collateral so sold.  Each such purchaser at any such sale shall hold the property sold absolutely free from any claim or right on the part of Pledgor, and, to the extent permitted by applicable law, Pledgor hereby waives all rights of redemption, stay, valuation and appraisal Pledgor now has or may at any time in the future have under any rule of law or statute now existing or hereafter enacted.  Pledgee shall give each person entitled to notice of such sale under Section 9-611(c) of the UCC ten (10) days prior written notice (which Pledgor agrees is reasonable notice within the meaning of Section 9-612 of the UCC) of Pledgee's intention to make any sale of Collateral.  Such notice shall conform to the requirements of Section 9-613 of the UCC.  Any such public sale shall be held at such time or times within ordinary business hours and at such place or places as Pledgee may fix and state in the notice of such sale.  At any such sale, the Collateral, or portion thereof, to be sold may be sold in one lot as an entirety or in separate parcels, as Pledgee may (in its sole and absolute discretion) determine.  Pledgee shall not be obligated to make any sale of any Collateral if it shall determine not to do so, regardless of the fact that notice of sale of such Collateral shall have been given.  Pledgee may, without notice or publication, adjourn any public or private sale or cause the same to be adjourned from time to time by announcement at the time and place fixed for sale, and such sale may, without further notice, be made at the time and place to which the same was so adjourned.  In case any sale of all or any part of the Collateral is made on credit or for future delivery, the Collateral so sold may be retained by Pledgee until the sale price is paid in full by the purchaser or purchasers thereof, but Pledgee shall not incur any liability in case any such purchaser or purchasers shall fail to take up and pay for the Collateral so sold and, in case of any such failure, such Collateral may be sold again upon like notice.  At any public (or, to the extent permitted by applicable law, private) sale made pursuant to this Section, Pledgee may bid for or purchase, free from any right of redemption, stay or appraisal on the part of Pledgor (all said rights being also hereby waived and released), the Collateral or any part thereof offered for sale and may make payment on account thereof by using any claim then due and payable to it from
15.
          
Pledgor as a credit against the purchase price, and it may, upon compliance with the terms of sale, hold, retain and dispose of such property without further accountability to Pledgor therefor.  For purposes hereof, (a) a written agreement to purchase the Collateral or any portion thereof shall be treated as a sale thereof, (b) Pledgee shall be free to carry out such sale pursuant to such agreement, and (c) Pledgor shall not be entitled to the return of the Collateral or any portion thereof subject thereto, notwithstanding the fact that after Pledgee shall have entered into such an agreement, all Events of Default shall have been remedied and the Obligations paid in full.  As an alternative to exercising the power of sale herein conferred upon it, Pledgee may proceed by a suit or suits at law or in equity to foreclose upon the Collateral and to sell the Collateral or any portion thereof pursuant to a judgment or decree of a court or courts having competent jurisdiction or pursuant to a proceeding by a court-appointed receiver.  Any sale pursuant to the provisions of this Section shall be deemed to be a commercially reasonable disposition as provided in Section 9-610 of the UCC.  Pledgee shall receive the proceeds of any such sale or sales, and, after deducting therefrom any and all reasonable costs and expenses incurred in connection with the sale thereof, apply the net proceeds toward the payment of the Secured Obligations secured hereunder, including interest, reasonable attorneys' fees, and all other reasonable costs and expenses incurred by Pledgee hereunder and under any other agreement between Pledgor and Pledgee.  If such proceeds be more than sufficient to pay the same, then in case of a surplus, such surplus shall be accounted for and paid over to Pledgor, provided Pledgor be not then indebted to Pledgee otherwise under this Agreement or any Other Agreement or for any cause whatsoever.  As used herein, the term "UCC" shall mean (i) the Uniform Commercial Code as in effect from time to time in the State of Texas and (ii) in any case where mandatory choice or law rules in the Texas Uniform Commercial Code require the application of the Uniform Commercial Code of another jurisdiction, the Uniform Commercial Code of such other jurisdiction as in effect from time to time.
In view of the position of Pledgor in relation to the Collateral, or because of other current or future circumstances, a question may arise under the Securities Act of 1933, as now or hereafter in effect, or any similar statute in any other jurisdiction or hereafter enacted analogous in purpose or effect (such Act and any such similar statute as from time to time in effect being called the "") with respect to any disposition of the Collateral permitted hereunder.  Pledgor understands that compliance with the Securities Laws might very strictly limit the course of conduct of Pledgee if Pledgee were to attempt to dispose of all or any part of the Collateral, and might also limit the extent to which or the manner in which any subsequent transferee of any Collateral could dispose of the same.  Similarly, there may be other legal restrictions or limitations affecting Pledgee in any attempt to dispose of all or part of the Collateral under applicable blue sky or other state securities laws or similar laws analogous in purpose or effect.  Pledgor recognizes that in light of such restrictions and limitations Pledgee may, with respect to any sale of the Collateral, limit the purchasers to those who will agree, among other things, to acquire such Collateral for their own account, for investment, and not with a view to the distribution or resale thereof.  Pledgor acknowledges and agrees that in light of such restrictions and limitations, Pledgee, in its sole and absolute discretion, (a) may proceed to make such a sale whether or not a registration statement for the purpose of registering such Collateral or part thereof shall have been filed under the Securities Laws and (b) may approach and negotiate with a single potential purchaser or a limited number of potential purchasers to effect such sale.  Pledgor acknowledges and agrees that any such sale might result in prices and other terms less favorable to the seller than if such sale were a public sale without such
16.
          
Securities Laws
restrictions.  In the event of any such sales, Pledgee shall incur no responsibility or liability for selling all or any part of the Collateral at a price that Pledgee, in its sole and absolute discretion, may in good faith deem reasonable under the circumstances, notwithstanding the possibility that a substantially higher price might have been realized if the sale were deferred until after registration under the Securities Laws or if more than a single purchaser or a limited number of purchasers were approached.  The provisions of this Section will apply notwithstanding the existence of a public or private market upon which the quotations or sales prices may exceed substantially the price at which Pledgee sells.
Pledgor agrees to execute and deliver to Pledgee such financing statements, continuation statements or amendments of financing statements, each in form reasonably acceptable to Pledgee, as Pledgee may from time to time reasonably request, or as are necessary or desirable in the opinion of Pledgee to establish and maintain a valid, enforceable, first priority perfected security interest in the Collateral as provided herein, and the other rights and security contemplated hereby, all in accordance with the UCC as enacted in any and all relevant jurisdictions, or any other relevant law.  Pledgor hereby authorizes Pledgee to file any such financing statements without the signature of Pledgor where permitted by law.  Pledgee is herby authorized to make filings with such recording offices and such other governmental authorities as Pledgee may consider necessary or appropriate for the purpose of perfecting, confirming, continuing, enforcing or protecting the security interests and liens granted to Pledgor by Pledgee.  Pledgor will pay any applicable filing fees, recordation taxes and related expenses relating to the Collateral.
17.
          
Pledgor hereby constitutes and appoints Pledgee its true and lawful attorney, irrevocably, with full power after the occurrence of and during the continuance of an Event of Default (in the name of Pledgor or otherwise) (i) to act, require, demand, receive, compound and give acquittance for any and all moneys and claims for moneys due or to become due to Pledgor under or arising out of the Collateral, (ii) to endorse any checks or other instruments or orders in connection therewith, (iii) to file any claims or take any action or institute any proceedings which Pledgee may deem to be necessary or advisable to protect its interests and (iv) to execute, deliver, record or file any other document or instrument and take such other actions as it considers appropriate in connection with the perfection, protection or enforcement of its security interest in the Collateral, the possession, maintenance, preparation for sale, foreclosure, sale, lease, exchange or other disposition or release of any Collateral or the exercise of any rights or remedies provided in this Agreement, which appointment as attorney is coupled with an interest.
18.
          
Upon indefeasible repayment in full in cash of the Secured Obligations, Pledgee will promptly, at Pledgor's expense, deliver all of the Collateral to Pledgor along with all instruments of assignment executed in connection therewith, and execute and deliver to Pledgor such documents as Pledgor shall reasonably request to evidence Assignor's release of Pledgee's security interest hereunder.
19.
          
.  This Agreement is being executed and delivered, and is intended to be performed in the State of Texas.  Except to the extent that the laws of the United States may apply to the terms hereof, the substantive laws of the State of Texas shall govern the validity, construction, enforcement and interpretation of this Agreement.  In the event of a dispute involving this Agreement or any other instruments executed in connection herewith, the
20.
          
Choice of Law
undersigned irrevocably agrees that venue for such dispute shall lie in any court of competent jurisdiction in Dallas County, Texas to the extent such dispute is not resolved by binding arbitration pursuant to Pledgee's current Arbitration Program described in below.
Section 22
.  This Agreement is executed in connection with the Loan Agreement and Pledgee is entitled to all the benefits provided therein and in the other agreements, documents, instruments and certificates entered into in connection with the Loan Agreement.
21.
          
Loan Agreement
  The parties agree to be bound by the terms and provisions of Pledgee's current Arbitration Program which is incorporated by reference herein and is acknowledged as received by the parties pursuant to which any and all disputes shall be resolved by mandatory binding arbitration upon the request of any party.
22.
          
.
AGREEMENT FOR BINDING ARBITRATION
.  This Agreement is given in renewal, extension, modification and amendment (and not in extinguishment or novation of that certain Stock Pledge Agreement dated September 23, 2004, by and between Pledgor and Pledgee (the "").
23.
          
Amendment and Restatement
Original Stock Pledge Agreement
.  The security interests and liens in the Collateral granted to Pledgee by Pledgor hereunder are given in renewal, extension and modification of the security interests and liens previously granted to Pledgee by Pledgor in the Original Stock Pledge Agreement.  Such prior security interests and liens are not extinguished hereby, and the making, perfection and priority of such prior security interests shall continue in full force and effect.
24.
          
Ratification of Collateral
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Pledgor and Pledgee have executed this Agreement as of the date first above written.
SCHEDULE I


