FILE:FOSL/FOSL-8K-20070213125102.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported):
February 8, 2007
FOSSIL, INC.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Item 5.02.
              Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On February 8, 2007, Elaine Agather was appointed to the board of directors (the "Board") of Fossil, Inc. (the "Company") effective February 12, 2007.
Ms. Agather is not a party to any arrangement or understanding with any person pursuant to which she was appointed as director, nor is she a party to any transaction described in Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K involving the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
Ms. Agather will immediately serve on the Special Committee of the Board formed to conduct an investigation into the practices and procedures relating to equity grants to the Company's officers, directors and employees and is expected to serve on the audit committee of the Board beginning at a later date in 2007.
For her service on the Board, Ms. Agather will receive the Company's normal compensation for a non-employee director.  Such compensation consists of an annual retainer of $30,000, a fee of $1,500 for each in-person meeting, and a fee of $1,000 for each telephonic meeting in excess of one hour.  In addition, pursuant to the Company's Nonemployee Director Stock Option Plan, Ms. Agather will receive a grant of a non-qualified stock option to purchase 5,000 shares of common stock on the date of becoming a director and an additional grant of a non-qualified stock option to purchase 4,000 shares of common stock on the first day of each calendar year if she is then serving as a non-employee director.  For her service on the special committee, Ms. Agather will receive an annual retainer of $10,000, a fee of $1,250 for each in-person meeting, a fee of $1,000 for each telephonic meeting in excess of one hour, and a fee of $500 for each telephonic meeting less than one hour.
.
On February 12, 2007, the Company issued a press release announcing the appointment of Ms. Agather, which release is incorporated herein for all purposes.  A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this report
Item 9.01               Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)          
Exhibits
Press Release, dated February 12, 2007, announcing appointment of director.
99.1
                          
2
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated:    February 13, 2007
 
3
 
4

Exhibit 99.1
 
Richardson, TX. February 12, 2007  Fossil, Inc. (NASDAQ: FOSL) announced the appointment of Elaine Agather to its Board of Directors effective February 12, 2007.  With the appointment, the size of the Company's Board of Directors is ten (10) members, including six (6) independent directors and four (4) members of senior management.
Kosta Kartsotis, Chief Executive Officer of the Company said, "We are honored by Elaine's acceptance to join our Board of Directors and look forward to her insight, advice and direction."
Since 1999, Ms. Agather has served as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Chase  Dallas.  She also has served as South Region Head and Managing Director of JPMorgan Private Bank since 2001.  From 1992 until 1999, she served as Chairman of Texas Commerce Bank in Fort Worth, Texas. Ms. Agather began her banking career at Chemical Bank of New York in 1979, working in London, San Francisco and New York before relocating to Dallas in 1984. Ms. Agather serves on various community and art advisory councils including the Dallas Center for the Performing Arts and Bass Performance Hall. She is also a member of the Ethics Advisory Board for the Maguire Center for Ethics and Public Responsibility.  In 2005, Ms. Agather was the recipient of the Northwood University Distinguished Women's Award and the Great Women of Texas Award.  In 2001, she was the recipient of the Women of Excellence Award from Women's Enterprise Magazine.
Fossil, Inc. is a design, development, marketing and distribution company that specializes in consumer products predicated on fashion and value. The Company's principal offerings include an extensive line of fashion watches sold under the Company's proprietary and licensed brands. The Company also offers complementary lines of small leather goods, belts, handbags, sunglasses, jewelry and apparel. The Company's products are sold in department stores and specialty retail stores in over 90 countries around the world, in addition to the Company's e-commerce website at www.fossil.com.  Certain product, press release and SEC filing information concerning the Company is available at the website.


