FILE:FOSL/FOSL-8K-20070911085441.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure.
On September 11, 2007, Kosta N. Kartsotis, Director and Chief Executive Officer, and Mike L. Kovar, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, of Fossil, Inc. (the "Company"), will be presenting an overview of the Company's business model, growth strategies and financial highlights at the 2007 Fossil Investor Conference located at the Company's corporate offices in Richardson, Texas.  A copy of the presentation is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
The information in this Current Report and the accompanying exhibit is being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
Certain statements contained in the presentation slides that are not historical facts constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and involve a number of risks and uncertainties.  The actual results of the future events described in such forward-looking statements could differ materially from those stated in such forward-looking statements.  Among the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially are the costs associated with the Company's voluntary review of historical equity granting practices; the effect of worldwide economic conditions; significant changes in consumer spending patterns or preferences; acts of war or acts of terrorism; changes in foreign currency valuations in relation to the U.S. dollar, principally the Euro, British Pound and Swiss Franc; lowered levels of consumer spending resulting from a general economic downturn or generally reduced shopping activity caused by public safety or consumer confidence concerns; the performance of our products within the prevailing retail environment; customer acceptance of both new designs and newly-introduced product lines; financial difficulties encountered by customers; the effects of vigorous competition in the markets in which we operate; the integration of the organizations and operations of any acquired businesses into our existing organization and operations; the termination or non-renewal of material licenses, foreign operations and manufacturing; changes in the costs of materials, labor and advertising; government regulation; our ability to secure and protect trademarks and other intellectual property rights; the costs associated with the Company's voluntary review of historical equity granting practices; the recent restatement of our consolidated financial statements; and the outcome of current and possible future litigation, as well as the risks and uncertainties set forth in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended January 6, 2007 and its Form 10-Q reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Item 9.01               Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)          
Exhibits
99.1         Slide show presentation of Fossil, Inc. dated September 11, 2007
2
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated:  September 11, 2007
 
3
 
4

Exhibit 99.1
 


