FILE:FOSL/FOSL-8K-20080627130433.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
FORM 8-K
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
                
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
                
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
                
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
                
 
 
 
Item 5.02
      
Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
(e)           On June 24, 2008, the Compensation Committee (the "Committee") of the Board of Directors of Fossil, Inc. (the "Company") approved the forms of award agreements to initially be used by the Company in connection with awards under the Fossil, Inc. 2008 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the "2008 Plan").  The following descriptions of the forms of award agreements are qualified in their entirety by the full text of each such document, which are incorporated herein by reference and filed as exhibits hereto.
 
Stock Option Award Agreements
 
The Committee approved forms of Stock Option Award Agreements for U.S. employees and non-U.S. employees, which provide for the grant of options (the "Options") to purchase shares of common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the Company (the "Common Stock").  The number of shares of Common Stock that may be purchased upon exercise of each Option, price per share and vesting schedule will be set forth in an award letter that will accompany each grant.  The number of shares and price per share are subject to adjustment for changes in the Company's capitalization, as set forth in the 2008 Plan.  Vested Options may be exercised at any time during a ten-year period beginning on the date of grant.  The Committee may in its discretion and subject to the limitations set forth in the 2008 Plan accelerate the vesting of Options and all Options will vest upon a change in control (as defined in the 2008 Plan) of the Company.  If an Option holder ceases to be employed by the Company or any of its subsidiaries for any reason other than death, such holder's unexpired, unexercisable Options will terminate and such holder's exercisable Options will remain exercisable for a period of three months following such termination.  If an Option holder ceases to be employed by the Company or any of its subsidiaries by reason of death, any unmatured Options shall accelerate and become exercisable by the person or persons to whom the Option holder's rights pass in accordance with the 2008 Plan and may be exercised within one year following the date of death.
 
Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreements
 
The Committee approved forms of Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreements for U.S. employees and non-U.S. employees, which provide for the grant of restricted stock units ("RSUs") consisting of the right to receive, upon the vesting date, a share of Common Stock for each vested RSU.  The number of RSUs and vesting schedule will be set forth in a notice of grant that will accompany each grant.  The number of RSUs is subject to adjustment for changes in the Company's capitalization, as set forth in the 2008 Plan.  The Committee may in its discretion and subject to the limitations set forth in the 2008 Plan accelerate the vesting of RSUs and all RSUs will vest upon a change in control (as defined in the 2008 Plan) of the Company or upon the death of the holder.  If an RSU holder ceases to be employed by the Company or any of its subsidiaries for any reason other than death, such holder's unvested RSUs will be forfeited.  Non-U.S. holders of RSUs shall be entitled to receive dividend equivalent payments equal to any cash dividends and other distributions on the Common Stock, except that if any distributions are paid in shares of Common Stock, the fair market value (as defined in the 2008 Plan) of such shares will be converted into RSUs subject to the same forfeiture and transferability restrictions as the RSUs on which they are paid.
 
Restricted Stock Award Agreements
 
The Committee approved forms of Restricted Stock Award Agreements for U.S. employees and non-U.S. employees, which provide for the grant of shares of restricted stock (the "Restricted Stock"), which bear a legend to restrict transfer until such Restricted Stock has vested.  The number of shares of Restricted Stock and vesting schedule will be set forth in a
 
notice of grant that will accompany each grant.  The number of shares of Restricted Stock is subject to adjustment for changes in the Company's capitalization, as set forth in the 2008 Plan.  The Committee may in its discretion and subject to the limitations set forth in the 2008 Plan accelerate the vesting of Restricted Stock and all Restricted Stock will vest upon a change in control (as defined in the 2008 Plan) of the Company or upon the death of the holder.  If a Restricted Stock holder ceases to be employed by the Company or any of its subsidiaries for any reason other than death, such holder's unvested Restricted Stock will be forfeited.  Holders of Restricted Stock shall have, with respect to the Restricted Stock, all of the rights of a stockholder of the Company, including the right to vote the shares and the right to receive any dividends thereon.
 
Stock Appreciation Rights Award Agreement
 
The Committee approved a form of Stock Appreciation Rights Award Agreement, which provides for the grant of stock appreciation rights ("SARs") consisting of the right to receive, upon exercise of each SAR, shares of Common Stock with a fair market value (as defined in the 2008 Plan) equal to the excess of the fair market value of each share of Common Stock on the date of exercise minus the fair market value of each share of Common Stock on the date of the award.  The number of SARs, vesting schedule and expiration date will be set forth in a notice of grant that will accompany each grant.  The number of SARs is subject to adjustment for changes in the Company's capitalization, as set forth in the 2008 Plan.  The Committee may in its discretion and subject to the limitations set forth in the 2008 Plan accelerate the vesting of SARs and all SARs will vest upon a change in control (as defined in the 2008 Plan) of the Company.  If a SAR holder ceases to be employed by the Company or any of its subsidiaries for any reason other than death, such holder's unexpired, unexercisable SARs will terminate and such holder's unexpired, vested SARs will remain exercisable for a period of three months following such termination.  If a SAR holder ceases to be employed by the Company or any of its subsidiaries by reason of death, any unvested SARs shall accelerate and vest and may be exercised by such holder's representatives, devises or heirs, as applicable, within one year following the date of death.  The SAR payment value will be paid in shares of Common Stock.
 
Item 9.01               Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d)          
Exhibits
 
Form of Stock Option Award Agreement  U.S. Employees.
10.1
                              
 
Form of Stock Option Award Agreement  Non-U.S. Employees.
10.2
                              
 
Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement  U.S. Participants.
10.3
                              
 
Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement  Non-U.S. Participants.
10.4
                              
 
Restricted Stock Award Agreement  U.S. Participants.
10.5
                              
 
Restricted Stock Award Agreement  Non-U.S. Participants.
10.6
                              
 
10.7         Stock Appreciation Rights Award.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
Standard Terms And Conditions
 
Fossil, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company") has adopted the Fossil, Inc. 2008 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the "Long-Term Incentive Plan") effective as of the Effective Date (as defined in the Long-Term Incentive Plan) with the objective of retaining key executives and other selected employees and of rewarding them for making major contributions to the success of the Company and its Subsidiaries (as defined in the Long-Term Incentive Plan).
 
The Long-Term Incentive Plan provides that an employee of the Company or its Subsidiaries (the "Optionee") may be granted an Award (as defined in the Long-Term Incentive Plan), which may consist of right to purchase a specified number of shares of common stock, par value $.01 per share ("Common Stock"), of the Company at a specified price, including rights in the form of nonqualified stock options.
 
In consideration of the premises, the terms and conditions set forth herein, the terms of the Stock Option Award Letter Agreement (the "Award Letter") between the Company and Optionee,  the mutual benefits to be gained by the performance thereof and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto agree as follows:
 
1.     Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, the Company hereby grants to the Optionee an Award consisting of options (the "Options") to purchase an aggregate of up to but not exceeding the number of shares of Common Stock (the "Option Shares") from the Company and at a price per share as set forth in the Award Letter (which is equal to or greater than the fair market value of the Common Stock on the date of grant of the Options), such number of shares and such price per share being subject to adjustment from time to time as provided in Articles 12-14 of the Long-Term Incentive Plan.  The Options are intended to be comply with the requirements of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code") and the regulations and other guidance issued thereunder, so that the Options shall be exempt from such requirements and this Agreement shall be interpreted to give effect to such intention; provided, however, that nothing contained herein shall be construed as a representation, guarantee or other undertaking on the part of the Company that the Options are or will be found to be exempt from and not subject to the requirements of Section 409A or any other regulations or guidance issued thereunder.  The Options shall not be treated as "incentive stock options" under Section 422 of the Code.
Grant of Award; Nonqualified Stock Options.
 
The grant of this Award to the Optionee shall not confer any right to such Optionee (or any other Optionee) to be granted any Option or Award in the future under the Long-Term Incentive Plan, even if options have been granted in the past.
 
2.     The Options granted pursuant to this agreement (the "Agreement") may be exercised by the Optionee at any time during the ten-year period beginning on the Grant Date specified in the Award Letter ("Option Period"), subject to the limitation that such Options shall vest and become exercisable in accordance with the Vesting Schedule set forth in the Award Letter (it being understood that the right to purchase the Option Shares shall be cumulative, so that the Optionee may purchase on or after any anniversary and during the remainder of the Option Period that number of Option Shares which the Optionee was entitled to purchase but did not purchase during any preceding period or periods).
Option Period and Vesting.
 
Notwithstanding the Vesting Schedule set forth in the Award Letter: (i) the Committee may in its discretion at any time accelerate the vesting of the Options; and (ii) all of the Options granted hereunder shall vest upon a Change in Control of the Company.
 
3.     The Options granted pursuant to this Agreement may be exercised by the Optionee by giving written notice of exercise to the Secretary of the Company, which notice shall (i) state the number of Option Shares with respect to which such Options are being exercised and (ii) be accompanied by a check, cash or money order payable to the Company in the full amount of the exercise price for such Options or, at the option of the Company, by means of a cashless exercise procedure through the use of a brokerage arrangement approved by the Company (or any combination of cash, check, money order or cashless exercise procedure).  Any shares of Common Stock delivered in satisfaction of all or a portion of the exercise price shall be appropriately endorsed for transfer to the Company or shall be accompanied by appropriate stock powers duly executed for transfer to the Company.  As promptly as practicable following the receipt of such written notification and payment, the Company shall electronically register one share of Common Stock in the Optionee's name for each Option Share with respect to which the Options have been exercised.
Method of Exercise.
 
4.    In the event that the Optionee ceases to be employed by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries during the Option Period for any reason other than death, the Options granted pursuant to this Agreement shall terminate, except to the extent that they are exercisable on the date the Optionee ceases to be so employed.  To the extent that such Options are exercisable on the date that the Optionee ceases to be employed by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries for any reason other than death, such Options may be exercised by the Optionee during the three-month period beginning on such date but shall terminate and be of no further force or effect at the end of such period.
Termination in Event of Nonemployment.
 
5.     In the event that the Optionee ceases to be employed by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries during the Option Period by reason of death at a time when the Options granted pursuant hereto are still in force and unexpired, such unmatured Options shall be accelerated.  Such acceleration shall be effective as of the date of death of the Optionee, and each Option so accelerated may be exercised by the person or persons to whom the Optionee's rights shall pass pursuant to Section 16.7 of the Long-Term Incentive Plan during the 12-month period beginning on such date but shall terminate at the end of such period.
Acceleration in Event of Death.
 
No assignment of the Options herein granted shall be effective to bind the Company unless the Company shall have been furnished with written notice thereof and a copy of such documents and evidence as the Company may deem necessary to establish the validity of the assignment and the acceptance by the assignee or assignees of the terms and conditions hereof.
 
6.     The Options granted pursuant hereto shall not be assignable or transferable by the Optionee other than by will or the laws of descent and distribution or pursuant to a qualified domestic relations order as defined by Code or Title I of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended.  Any attempt to do so contrary to the provisions hereof shall be null and void. 
Assignability.
 
7.     The Optionee shall have no rights as a stockholder of the Company with respect to the Option Shares unless and until such Option Shares shall have been electronically registered by the Company in the Optionee's name.  Until such time, the Optionee shall not be entitled to dividends or distributions in respect of any Option Shares or to vote such shares on any matter submitted to the stockholders of the Company.  In addition, except as to adjustments that may from time to time be made by the Committee in accordance with the Long-Term Incentive Plan, no adjustment shall be made or required to be made in respect of dividends (ordinary or extraordinary, whether in cash, securities or any other property) or distributions paid or made by the Company or any other rights granted in respect of any Option Shares for which the record date for such payment, distribution or grant is prior to the date upon which such Option Shares shall have been electronically registered by the Company in the Optionee's name.
No Stockholder Rights and No Stock Certificates.
 
No stock certificate or certificates shall be issued with respect to any Option Shares unless, the Optionee requests delivery of the certificate or certificates by submitting a written request to the General Counselrequesting deliver of the certificates.  The Company shall deliver the certificates requested by the
 
Optionee to the Optionee as soon as administratively practicable following the Company's receipt of such request.
 
8.     The Committee shall have the power to interpret the Long-Term Incentive Plan, the Notice of Grant and this Award, and to adopt such rules for the administration, interpretation, and application of the Long-Term Incentive Plan as are consistent therewith and to interpret or revoke any such rules.  All actions taken and all interpretations and determinations made by the Committee shall be final and binding upon the Optionee, the Company, and all other interested persons.  No member of the Committee shall be personally liable for any action, determination, or interpretation made in good faith with respect to the Long-Term Incentive Plan or this Award.
Administration
.
 
9.     The Company may make such provision as it may deem appropriate for the withholding of any taxes that it determines is required in connection with the Options granted pursuant to this Agreement.  However, the Optionee may pay all or any portion of the taxes required to be withheld by the Company or paid by the Optionee in connection with the exercise of all or any portion of such Options by electing to have the Company withhold a portion of the Option Shares or by delivering shares of Common Stock theretofore owned by the Optionee having a Fair Market Value on the date of exercise, as determined in accordance with Section 2.17 of the Long-Term Incentive Plan, equal to the amount required to be withheld or paid.  The Optionee must make the foregoing election on or before the date upon which the amount of the taxes to be withheld is determined. If the Optionee is subject to the short-swing profits recapture provisions of Section 16(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), any such election shall be subject to such additional restrictions as may be imposed by the Committee to ensure that the satisfaction of withholding requirements by the withholding of a portion of the Option Shares or by delivery of shares of Common Stock theretofore owned by the Optionee shall be exempt from the short-swing profits recapture provisions of Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act.
Tax Withholding.
 
10.   Upon the acquisition of any Option Shares pursuant to the exercise of the Options granted pursuant hereto, the Optionee may be required to enter into such written representations, warranties and agreements as the Company may reasonably request in order to comply with applicable securities laws, the Long-Term Incentive Plan or with this Agreement.  In addition, to the extent a certificate or certificates representing any Option Shares purchased upon the exercise of the Options are issued, the certificate or certificates will be stamped or otherwise imprinted with a legend in such form as the Company may require with respect to any applicable restrictions on sale or transfer, and the stock transfer records of the Company will reflect stop-transfer instructions, as appropriate, with respect to such shares.
Restrictions and Related Representations.
 
11.     Unless otherwise provided herein, any notice or other communication hereunder shall be in writing and shall be given by registered or certified mail unless the Company, in its sole discretion, decides to deliver any documents relating to the Option or future options that may be granted under the Long-Term Incentive Plan by electronic means to request Optionee's consent to participate in the Long-Term Incentive Plan by electronic means.  Optionee hereby consents to receive such documents by electronic delivery and, if requested, to agree to participate in the Long-Term Incentive Plan through an on-line or electronic system established and maintained by the Company or another third party designated by the Company.  All notices of the exercise by the Optionee of the Options granted pursuant hereto shall be directed to Fossil, Inc., Attention: Secretary, at the Company's then current address unless the Company, in writing or electronically, directs Optionee otherwise.  Any notice given by the Company to the Optionee directed to him at his address on file with the Company, and shall be effective to bind any other person who shall acquire rights hereunder.  The Company shall be under no obligation whatsoever to advise or notify the Optionee of the existence, maturity or termination of any rights hereunder and the Optionee shall be deemed to have familiarized himself with all matters contained herein and in the Long-Term Incentive Plan which may affect any of the Optionee's rights or privileges hereunder.
Notices and Electronic Delivery.
 
12.     Whenever the term "Optionee" is used herein under circumstances applicable to any other person or persons to whom this award may be assigned in accordance with the provisions of Paragraph 6 of this Agreement, the term "Optionee" shall be deemed to include such person or persons.  The term "Long-Term Incentive Plan" as used herein shall be deemed to include the Long-Term Incentive Plan and any subsequent amendments thereto, together with any administrative interpretations which have been adopted thereunder by the Committee pursuant to Section 3.3 of the Long-Term Incentive Plan.
Scope of Certain Terms.
 
13.   .  This Award is subject to the requirement that, if at any time the Committee shall determine that (a) the listing, registration or qualification of the shares of Common Stock subject or related thereto upon any securities exchange or under any state or federal law; (b) the consent or approval of any government regulatory body; or (c) an agreement by the recipient of an Award with respect to the disposition of shares of Common Stock, is necessary or desirable (in connection with any requirement or interpretation of any federal or state securities law, rule or regulation) as a condition of, or in connection with, the granting of such Award or the issuance, purchase or delivery of shares of Common Stock thereunder, such Award may not be consummated in whole or in part unless such listing, registration, qualification, consent, approval or agreement shall have been effected or obtained free of any conditions not acceptable to the Committee.
General Restrictions
 
14.   .  In the event of any stock dividends, stock splits, recapitalizations, combinations, exchanges of shares, mergers, consolidations, liquidations, split-ups, split-offs, spin-offs or other similar changes in capitalization, or any distributions to stockholders, including a rights offering, other than regular cash dividends, changes in the outstanding stock of the Company by reason of any increase or decrease in the number of issued shares of Common Stock resulting from a split-up or consolidation of shares or any similar capital adjustment or the payment of any stock dividend, any share repurchase at a price in excess of the market price of the Common Stock at the time such repurchase is announced or other increase or decrease in the number of such shares, the Committee shall make appropriate adjustment in the number and kind of shares authorized by the Long-Term Incentive Plan, in the number, price or kind of shares covered by the Awards and in any outstanding Awards under the Long-Term Incentive Plan.  In the event of any adjustment in the number of shares covered by any Award, any fractional shares resulting from such adjustment shall be disregarded and each such Award shall cover only the number of full shares resulting from such adjustment.
Adjustments for Changes in Capitalization
 
15.     Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, the Optionee agrees that he will not exercise the Options granted pursuant hereto, and that the Company will not be obligated to issue any Option Shares pursuant to this Agreement, if the exercise of the Options or the issuance of such shares would constitute a violation by the Optionee or by the Company of any provision of any law or regulation of any governmental authority or any national securities exchange or transaction quotation system.
Precondition of Legality.
 
16.   .  The Option grant and the provisions of this Agreement are governed by, and subject to, the laws of the State of Delaware, as provided in the Long-Term Incentive Plan.
Governing Law
 
17.   t. Neither the granting of this Option, the exercise of any part hereof, nor any provision of the Long-Term Incentive Plan or this Award shall constitute or be evidence of any understanding, express or implied, on the part of the Company or any Subsidiary to employ the Optionee for any specified period.
No Right of Employmen
 
18.   .  This Award may be amended only by a writing executed by the Company and the Optionee which specifically states that it is amending this Award.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, this Award may be amended solely by the Committee by a writing which specifically states that it is amending this Award, so long as a copy of such amendment is delivered to the Optionee, and provided that no such amendment
Amendment
adversely affecting the rights of the Optionee hereunder may be made without the Optionee's written consent.  Without limiting the foregoing, the Committee reserves the right to change, by written notice to the Optionee, the provisions of the Option or this Award in any way it may deem necessary or advisable to carry out the purpose of the grant as a result of any change in applicable laws or regulations or any future law, regulation, ruling, or judicial decision, provided that any such change shall be applicable only to Option which are then subject to restrictions as provided herein.
 
19.   This Agreement is subject to the Long-Term Incentive Plan, a copy of which has been furnished to the Optionee and for which the Optionee acknowledges receipt.  The terms and provisions of the Long-Term Incentive Plan are incorporated by reference herein. In the event of a conflict between any term or provision contained here in and a term or provision of the Long-Term Incentive Plan, the applicable terms and provisions of the Long-Term Incentive Plan shall govern and prevail.
Incorporation of the Long-Term Incentive Plan.
 
20.   .  If one or more of the provisions of this Award shall be held invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby and the invalid, illegal or unenforceable provisions shall be deemed null and void; however, to the extent permissible by law, any provisions which could be deemed null and void shall first be construed, interpreted or revised retroactively to permit this Award to be construed so as to first the intent of this Award and the Long-Term Incentive Plan.
Severability
 
.  The Option is being granted pursuant to Article 6 of the Long-Term Incentive Plan and are subject to the terms of the Long-Term Incentive Plan.  A copy of the Long-Term Incentive Plan has been given to the Optionee, and additional copies of the Long-Term Incentive Plan are available upon request during normal business hours at the principal executive offices of the Company.  To the extent that any provision of this Award violates or is inconsistent with an express provision of the Long-Term Incentive Plan, the Long-Term Incentive Plan provision shall govern and any inconsistent provision in this Award shall be of no force or effect.
21.  
Construction
 

Exhibit 10.2
Fossil, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company") has adopted the Fossil, Inc. 2008 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the "Long-Term Incentive Plan") effective as of the Effective Date (as defined in the Long-Term Incentive Plan) with the objective of retaining key executives and other selected employees and of rewarding them for making major contributions to the success of the Company and its Subsidiaries (as defined in the Long-Term Incentive Plan).
 
The Long-Term Incentive Plan provides that an employee of the Company or its Subsidiaries (the "Optionee") may be granted an Award (as defined in the Long-Term Incentive Plan), which may consist of right to purchase a specified number of shares of common stock, par value $.01 per share ("Common Stock"), of the Company at a specified price.
 
In consideration of the premises, the terms and conditions set forth herein, the terms of the Stock Option Award Letter Agreement (the "Award Letter") between the Company and Optionee, the mutual benefits to be gained by the performance thereof and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto agree as follows:
 
  Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, the Company hereby grants to the Optionee an Award consisting of U.S. non-statutory options (the "Options") to purchase an aggregate of up to but not exceeding the number of shares of Common Stock (the "Option Shares") from the Company and at a price per share as set forth in the Award Letter, such number of shares and such price per share being subject to adjustment from time to time as provided in Articles 12-14 of the Long-Term Incentive Plan.
1.
            
Grant of Award.
 
The grant of this Award to the Optionee shall not confer any right to such Optionee (or any other Optionee) to be granted any Option or Award in the future under the Long-Term Incentive Plan, even if options have been granted in the past.
 
  The Options granted pursuant to this agreement, together with the attached Appendix A (the "Agreement") may be exercised by the Optionee at any time during the ten-year period beginning on the Grant Date specified in the Award Letter ("Option Period"), subject to the limitation that such Options shall vest and become exercisable in accordance with the Vesting Schedule set forth in the Award Letter (it being understood that the right to purchase the Option Shares shall be cumulative, so that the Optionee may purchase on or after any anniversary and during the remainder of the Option Period that number of Option Shares which the Optionee was entitled to purchase but did not purchase during any preceding period or periods).
2.
            
Option Period and Vesting.
 
Notwithstanding the Vesting Schedule set forth in the Award Letter: (i) the Committee may in its discretion at any time accelerate the vesting of the Options; and (ii) all of the Options granted hereunder shall vest upon a Change in Control of the Company.
 
  The Options granted pursuant to this Agreement may be exercised by the Optionee by giving written notice of exercise to the Secretary of the Company which notice shall (i) state the number of Option Shares with respect to which such Options are being exercised and (ii) be accompanied by a check, cash or money order payable to the Company in the full amount of the exercise price for such Options or, by means of a cashless exercise procedure through the use of a brokerage arrangement approved by the Company (or any combination of cash, check, money order or cashless
3.
            
Method of Exercise.
 
 
exercise procedure).  As promptly as practicable following the receipt of such written notification and payment, the Company shall electronically register one share of Common Stock in the Optionee's name for each Option Share with respect to which the Options have been exercised.
 
.  Regardless of any action the Companyor Optionee's employer (the "Employer") takes with respect to any or all income tax, social insurance, payroll tax, payment on account or other tax-related withholding ("Tax-Related Items"), Optionee acknowledges that the ultimate liability for all Tax-Related Items legally due by him or her is and remains Optionee's responsibility and that the Company and/or the Employer (a) make no representations or undertakings regarding the treatment of any Tax-Related Items in connection with any aspect of the Option grant, including the grant, vesting or exercise of the Option, the subsequent sale of shares of Common Stock acquired pursuant to such exercise and the receipt of any dividends; and (b) do not commit to structure the terms of the grant or any aspect of the Option to reduce or eliminate Optionee's liability for Tax-Related Items.
4.
            
Tax Withholding
 
Prior to exercise of the Option, Optionee will pay or make adequate arrangements satisfactory to the Company and/or the Employer to satisfy all Tax-Related Items withholding obligations of the Company and/or the Employer.  In this regard, Optionee authorizes the Company and/or the Employer to withhold all applicable Tax-Related Items legally payable by Optionee from his or her wages or other cash compensation paid to Optionee by the Company and/or the Employer.  Alternatively, or in addition thereto, the Company may withhold Tax-Related Items from all or any portion of such Options by withholding a portion of the Option Shares or selling or arranging for the sale of Option Shares having a Fair Market Value on the date of exercise, as determined in accordance with Section 2.17 of the Long Term Incentive Plan, equal to the amount required to be withheld or paid.  If the Optionee is subject to the short swing profits recapture provisions of Section 16(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), the Company may impose such additional restrictions as may be necessary to ensure that the satisfaction of withholding requirements by the withholding of a portion of the Option Shares shall be exempt from the short swing profits recapture provisions of Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act.  If the Company withholds in Option Shares, the Company will withhold the amount of shares of Common Stock necessary to satisfy the minimum withholding amount.  Finally, Optionee will pay to the Company or the Employer any amount of Tax-Related Items that the Company or the Employer may be required to withhold as a result of Optionee's participation in the Long-Term Incentive Plan or Optionee's purchase of shares of Common Stock that cannot be satisfied by the means previously described.  The Company may refuse to honor the exercise and refuse to deliver the shares of Common Stock if Optionee fails to comply with his or her obligations in connection with the Tax-Related Items as described in this section.
 
.  In accepting the grant, Optionee acknowledges that:
5.
            
Nature of Grant
 
the Long-Term Incentive Plan is established voluntarily by the Company, it is discretionary in nature and it may be modified, amended, suspended or terminated by the Company at any time, unless otherwise provided in the Long-Term Incentive Plan and this Agreement;
(a)
          
 
the grant of the Option is voluntary and occasional;
(b)
          
 
all decisions with respect to future option grants, if any, will be at the sole discretion of the Company;
(c)
          
 
the Optionee's participation in the Long-Term Incentive Plan will not create a right to further employment with the Employer and shall not interfere with the ability of the Employer to terminate Optionee's employment relationship at any time with or without cause;
(d)
          
 
the Optionee is voluntarily participating in the Long-Term Incentive Plan;
(e)
          
 
the Option is an extraordinary item that does not constitute compensation of any kind for services of any kind rendered to the Company or the Employer, and which is outside the scope of Optionee's employment contract, if any;
(f)
           
 
the Option is not part of normal or expected compensation or salary for any purposes, including, but not limited to, calculating any severance, resignation, termination, redundancy, end of service payments, bonuses, long-service awards, pension or retirement benefits or similar payments and in no event should be considered as compensation for, or relating in any way to, past services for the Company or the Employer;
(g)
          
 
in the event that Optionee is not an employee of the Company, the Option grant will not be interpreted to form an employment contract or relationship with the Company; and furthermore, the Option grant will not be interpreted to form an employment contract with the Employer or any subsidiary or affiliate of the Company;
(h)
          
 
the future value of the underlying shares of Common Stock is unknown and cannot be predicted with certainty;
(i)
           
 
if the underlying shares of Common Stock do not increase in value, the Option will have no value;
(j)
           
 
if Optionee exercises his or her Option and obtain shares of Common Stock, the value of those shares of Common Stock acquired upon exercise may increase or decrease in value, even below the exercise price; and
(k)
          
 
in consideration of the grant of the Option, no claim or entitlement to compensation or damages shall arise from termination of the Option or diminution in value of the Option or shares of Common Stock purchased through exercise of the Option resulting from termination of Optionee's employment by the Company or the Employer (for any reason whatsoever and whether or not in breach of local labor laws) and Optionee irrevocably releases the Company and the Employer from any such claim that may arise; if, notwithstanding the foregoing, any such claim is found by a court of competent jurisdiction to have arisen, then, by signing this Agreement, Optionee will be deemed irrevocably to have waived his or her entitlement to pursue such claim.
(l)
           
 
6.
Data Privacy.   Optionee hereby explicitly and unambiguously consents to the collection, use and transfer, in electronic or other form, of his or her personal data as described in this document by and among, as applicable, the Employer, and the Company and its subsidiaries and affiliates for the exclusive purpose of implementing, administering and managing Optionee's participation in the Long-Term Incentive Plan.
           
 
Optionee understands that the Company and the Employer may hold certain personal information about Optionee, including, but not limited to, Optionee's name, home address and telephone number, date of birth, social insurance number or other identification number, salary, nationality, job title, any shares of stock or directorships held in the Company, details of all options or any other entitlement to shares of stock awarded, canceled, exercised, vested, unvested or outstanding in Optionee's favor, for the purpose of implementing, administering and managing the Long-Term Incentive Plan ("Data").  Optionee understands that Data may be transferred to any third parties assisting in the implementation, administration and management of the Long-Term Incentive Plan, that these recipients may be located in Optionee's country or elsewhere, and that the recipients'
 
country (e.g., the United States) may have different data privacy laws and protections than Optionee's country.  Optionee understands that he or she may request a list with the names and addresses of any potential recipients of the Data by contacting Optionee's local human resources representative.  Optionee authorizes the recipients to receive, possess, use, retain and transfer the Data, in electronic or other form, for the sole purpose of implementing, administering and managing Optionee's participation in the Long-Term Incentive Plan, including any requisite transfer of such Data as may be required to a broker or other third party with whom Optionee may elect to deposit any shares of stock acquired upon exercise of the Option.  Optionee understands that Data will be held only as long as is necessary to implement, administer and manage Optionee's participation in the Long-Term Incentive Plan.  Optionee understands that he or she may, at any time, view Data, request additional information about the storage and processing of Data, require any necessary amendments to Data or refuse or withdraw the consents herein, in any case without cost, by contacting in writing Optionee's local human resources representative.  Optionee understands, however, that refusing or withdrawing his or her consent may affect Optionee's ability to participate in the Long-Term Incentive Plan.  For more information on the consequences of Optionee's refusal to consent or withdrawal of consent, Optionee understands that he or she may contact his or her local human resources representative.
 
  In the event that the Optionee ceases to be actively employed by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries (whether or not in breach of local labor laws) during the Option Period for any reason other than death, the Options granted pursuant to this Agreement shall terminate effective as of the date that Optionee is no longer actively employed and will not be extended by any notice period mandated under local law (, active employment does not include a period of "garden leave" or a similar period pursuant to local law), except to the extent that the Options are exercisable on the date the Optionee ceases to be so employed.  To the extent that such Options are exercisable on the date that the Optionee ceases to be actively employed by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries for any reason other than death, such Options may be exercised by the Optionee during the three month period beginning on such date but shall terminate and be of no further force or effect at the end of such three-month period.
7.
            
Termination in Event of Nonemployment.
e.g.
 
  In the event that the Optionee ceases to be employed by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries during the Option Period by reason of death at a time when the Options granted pursuant hereto are still in force and unexpired, such unmatured Options shall be accelerated.  Such acceleration shall be effective as of the date of death of the Optionee, and each Option so accelerated may be exercised by the person or persons to whom the Optionee's rights shall pass pursuant to Section 16.7 of the Long-Term Incentive Plan during the 12-month period beginning on such date but shall terminate at the end of such period.
8.
            
Acceleration in Event of Death.
 
  The Options granted pursuant hereto shall not be assignable or transferable by the Optionee other than by will or the laws of descent and distribution.  No assignment of the Options herein granted shall be effective to bind the Company unless the Company shall have been furnished with written notice thereof and a copy of such documents and evidence as the Company may deem necessary to establish the validity of the assignment and the acceptance by the assignee or assignees of the terms and conditions hereof.
9.
            
Assignability.
 
  The Optionee shall have no rights as a stockholder of the Company with respect to the Option Shares unless and until such Option Shares shall have been electronically registered by the Company in the Optionee's name.  Until such time, the Optionee shall not be entitled to dividends or distributions in respect of any Option Shares or to vote such shares on any matter submitted to the stockholders of the Company.  In addition, except as to adjustments that may from time to time be made by the Committee in accordance with the Long Term Incentive Plan, no adjustment shall be made or required to be made in respect of dividends (ordinary or extraordinary,
10.
          
No Stockholder Rights and No Stock Certificates.
 
whether in cash, securities or any other property) or distributions paid or made by the Company or any other rights granted in respect of any Option Shares for which the record date for such payment, distribution or grant is prior to the date upon which such Option Shares shall have been electronically registered by the Company in the Optionee's name.
 
No stock certificate or certificates shall be issued with respect to any Option Shares unless, the Optionee requests delivery of the certificate or certificates by submitting a written request to the General Counsel requesting deliver of the certificates.  The Company shall deliver the certificates requested by the Optionee to the Optionee as soon as administratively practicable following the Company's receipt of such request.
 
  The Committee shall have the power to interpret the Long-Term Incentive Plan, the Notice of Grant and this Award, and to adopt such rules for the administration, interpretation, and application of the Long-Term Incentive Plan as are consistent therewith and to interpret or revoke any such rules.  All actions taken and all interpretations and determinations made by the Committee shall be final and binding upon the Optionee, the Company, and all other interested persons.  No member of the Committee shall be personally liable for any action, determination, or interpretation made in good faith with respect to the Long-Term Incentive Plan or this Award.
11.
          
Administration
.
 
 Upon the acquisition of any Option Shares pursuant to the exercise of the Options granted pursuant hereto, the Optionee may be required to enter into such written representations, warranties and agreements as the Company may reasonably request in order to comply with applicable securities laws, the Long-Term Incentive Plan or with this Agreement.  In addition, to the extent a certificate or certificates representing any Option Shares purchased upon the exercise of the Options are issued, the certificate or certificates will be stamped or otherwise imprinted with a legend in such form as the Company may require with respect to any applicable restrictions on sale or transfer, and the stock transfer records of the Company will reflect stop-transfer instructions, as appropriate, with respect to such shares.
12.
          
Restrictions and Related Representations.
 
  Any notice or other communication hereunder shall be in writing and shall be given by registered or certified mail unless the Company, in its sole discretion, decides to deliver any documents related to the Option or future options that may be granted under the Plan by electronic means or to request Optionee's consent to participate in the Plan by electronic means.  Optionee hereby consents to receive such documents by electronic delivery and, if requested, to agree to participate in the Plan through an on-line or electronic system established and maintained by the Company or another third party designated by the Company.  All notices of the exercise by the Optionee of the Options granted pursuant hereto shall be directed to Fossil, Inc., Attention: Secretary, at the Company's then current address unless the Company directs Optionee otherwise. Any notice given by the Company to the Optionee directed to him at his address on file with the Company shall be effective to bind any other person who shall acquire rights hereunder.  The Company shall be under no obligation whatsoever to advise or notify the Optionee of the existence, maturity or termination of any rights hereunder and the Optionee shall be deemed to have familiarized himself with all matters contained herein and in the Long Term Incentive Plan which may affect any of the Optionee's rights or privileges hereunder.
13.
          
Notices and Electronic Delivery.
 
  Whenever the term "Optionee" is used herein under circumstances applicable to any other person or persons to whom this award may be assigned in accordance with the provisions of Paragraph 9 of this Agreement, the term "Optionee" shall be deemed to include such person or persons.  The term "Long-Term Incentive Plan" as used herein shall be deemed to include the Long-Term Incentive Plan and any subsequent amendments thereto, together with any
14.
          
Scope of Certain Terms.
administrative interpretations which have been adopted thereunder by the Committee pursuant to Section 3.3 of such Plan.
 
.  This Award is subject to the requirement that, if at any time the Committee shall determine that (a) the listing, registration or qualification of the shares of Common Stock subject or related thereto upon any securities exchange or under any state or federal law; (b) the consent or approval of any government regulatory body; or (c) an agreement by the recipient of an Award with respect to the disposition of shares of Common Stock, is necessary or desirable (in connection with any requirement or interpretation of any federal or state securities law, rule or regulation) as a condition of, or in connection with, the granting of such Award or the issuance, purchase or delivery of shares of Common Stock thereunder, such Award may not be consummated in whole or in part unless such listing, registration, qualification, consent, approval or agreement shall have been effected or obtained free of any conditions not acceptable to the Committee.
15.
          
General Restrictions
 
16.  .  The number of shares subject to this Award and the price per share set forth in the Award Letter shall be subject to adjustment in accordance with the provisions of Articles 12-14 of the Long-Term Incentive Plan.
Adjustments for Changes in Capitalization
 
17.    Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, the Optionee agrees that he will not exercise the Options granted pursuant hereto, and that the Company will not be obligated to issue any Option Shares pursuant to this Agreement, if the exercise of the Options or the issuance of such shares would constitute a violation by the Optionee or by the Company of any provision of any law or regulation of any governmental authority or any national securities exchange or transaction quotation system.
Precondition of Legality.
 
18.    The Option grant and the provisions of this Agreement are governed by, and subject to, the laws of the State of Delaware, as provided in the Plan.
Governing Law.
 
19.  t. Neither the granting of this Option, the exercise of any part hereof, nor any provision of the Long-Term Incentive Plan or this Award shall constitute or be evidence of any understanding, express or implied, on the part of the Company or any Subsidiary to employ the Optionee for any specified period.
 No Right of Employmen
 
.  This Award may be amended only by a writing executed by the Company and the Optionee which specifically states that it is amending this Award.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, this Award may be amended solely by the Committee by a writing which specifically states that it is amending this Award, so long as a copy of such amendment is delivered to the Optionee, and provided that no such amendment adversely affecting the rights of the Optionee hereunder may be made without the Optionee's written consent.  Without limiting the foregoing, the Committee reserves the right to change, by written notice to the Optionee, the provisions of the Option or this Award in any way it may deem necessary or advisable to carry out the purpose of the grant as a result of any change in applicable laws or regulations or any future law, regulation, ruling, or judicial decision, provided that any such change shall be applicable only to Option which are then subject to restrictions as provided herein.
20. 
Amendment
 
21.   This Agreement is subject to the Long-Term Incentive Plan, a copy of which has been furnished to the Optionee and for which the Optionee acknowledges receipt.  The terms and provisions of the Long-Term Incentive Plan are incorporated by reference herein. In the event of a conflict between any term or provision contained here in and a term or provision of the Long-Term Incentive Plan, the applicable terms and provisions of the Long-Term Incentive Plan shall govern and prevail.
Incorporation of Long-Term Incentive Plan.
  If the Optionee has received this Agreement or any other document related to the Long-Term Incentive Plan translated into a language other than English and if the translated version is different than the English version, the English version will control.
22. 
Language.
 
The provisions of this Agreement are severable and if any one or more provisions are determined to be illegal or otherwise unenforceable, in whole or in part, the remaining provisions shall nevertheless be binding and enforceable.
23.   
Severability.
 
.  The Option is being granted pursuant to Article 6 of the Long-Term Incentive Plan and are subject to the terms of the Long-Term Incentive Plan.  A copy of the Long-Term Incentive Plan has been given to the Optionee, and additional copies of the Long-Term Incentive Plan are available upon request during normal business hours at the principal executive offices of the Company.  To the extent that any provision of this Award violates or is inconsistent with an express provision of the Long-Term Incentive Plan, the Long-Term Incentive Plan provision shall govern and any inconsistent provision in this Award shall be of no force or effect.
24. 
Construction
 

Exhibit 10.3
This RESTRICTED STOCK UNIT AWARD(the "Award"), is entered into effect as of the date of the grant (the "Effective Date").
 
, Fossil, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company") has adopted the Fossil, Inc. 2008 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the "Long-Term Incentive Plan"), effective as of the Effective Date (as defined in the Long-Term Incentive Plan), with the objective of advancing the best interests of the Company, its Subsidiaries and its stockholders in order to attract, retain and motivate key employees with additional incentives through the award of Restricted Stock Units; and
WHEREAS
 
, the Long-Term Incentive Plan provides that Eligible Participants of the Company or its Subsidiaries, as determined in the judgment of the Committee, may be granted an Award which may consist of grants of restricted units of common stock, par value $.01 per share ("Common Stock"), of the Company;
WHEREAS
 
, the Participant identified in the Notice of Grant is hereby awarded Restricted Stock Units in accordance with the following terms:
NOW, THEREFORE
 
.  Subject to the terms and conditions set forth in the Long-Term Incentive Plan, this Award and in the Notice of Grant, the Company hereby grants to the Participant an award of those Restricted Stock Units specified in the Notice of Grant, subject to adjustment from time to time as provided in Articles 12, 13 and 14 of the Long-Term Incentive Plan.  Each Restricted Stock Unit shall consist of the right to receive, upon the Vesting Date, a share of Common Stock for each vested Unit, which shall be electronically registered by the Company in the name of the Participant as promptly as practicable following the Vesting Date.
1.            
Grant of Award; Restricted Stock Units
 
.  If the Participant remains continuously employed by the Company or a Subsidiary through each Vesting Date set forth in the Notice of Grant, the Restricted Stock Units shall vest (it being understood that Units shall vest cumulatively) and the Company shall electronically register one share of Common Stock in the Participant's name for each vested Unit.
2.            
Vesting
 
Notwithstanding the vesting conditions set forth in the Notice of Grant: (i) the Committee may in its discretion at any time accelerate the vesting of Restricted Stock Units or otherwise waive or amend any conditions of a grant of a Restricted Stock Units; and (ii) all of the Restricted Stock Units shall vest upon a Change in Control of the Company or upon the death of the Participant.
 
.  In the event that the Participant ceases to be employed by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries before a Vesting Date for any reason other than death, the unvested Restricted Stock Units granted pursuant to this Agreement shall be forfeited.
3.            
Termination in Event of Nonemployment
 
.  Shares of Common Stock evidencing the conversion of Restricted Stock Units into shares of Common Stock shall be electronically registered in the Participant's name as of (or as promptly as practicable after) each Vesting Date.  No stock certificate or certificates shall be issued with respect to such shares of Common Stock, unless, the Participant requests delivery of the certificate or certificates by submitting a written request to the General Counsel requesting deliver of the certificates.  Subject to Section 5 of this Award, the Company shall deliver the certificates requested by the Participant
4.            
Stock Certificates
to the Participant as soon as administratively practicable following the Company's receipt of such request. Upon registration (or issuance) of any shares hereunder,  the Participant may be required to enter into such written representations, warranties and agreements as the Company may reasonably request in order to comply with applicable securities laws, the Long-Term Incentive Plan or with the Notice of Grant.
 
.  The Participant shall be required to deposit with the Company an amount of cash equal to the amount determined by the Company to be required with respect to any withholding taxes, FICA contributions, or the like under any federal, state, or local statute, ordinance, rule, or regulation in connection with the award or settlement of the Restricted Stock Units.  Alternatively, the Company may, at its sole election, (i) withhold the required amounts from the Participant's pay during the pay periods next following the date on which any such applicable tax liability otherwise arises, or (ii) withhold a number of shares of Common Stock otherwise deliverable having a Fair Market Value sufficient to satisfy the statutory minimum of all or part of the Participant's estimated total federal, state, and local tax obligations associated with vesting or settlement of the Restricted Stock Units.  The Company shall not deliver any of the shares of Common Stock until and unless the Participant has made the deposit required herein or proper provision for required withholding has been made.
5.            
Tax Withholding Obligations
 
 No assignment of the Restricted Stock Units herein granted shall be effective to bind the Company unless the Company shall have been furnished with written notice thereof and a copy of such documents and evidence as the Company may deem necessary to establish the validity of the assignment and the acceptance by the assignee or assignees of the terms and conditions hereof.
.  Until the Restricted Stock Units are vested as provided above, they may not be sold, transferred, pledged, assigned, or otherwise alienated other than by will or the laws of descent and distribution or pursuant to a qualified domestic relations order as defined by Code or Title I of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended.  Any attempt to do so contrary to the provisions hereof shall be null and void. 
6.            
Assignability
 
  The Participant shall have no rights as a stockholder of the Company with respect to the Restricted Stock Units unless and until certificates evidencing shares of Common Stock shall have been issued by the Company to the Participant.  Until such time, the Participant shall not be entitled to dividends or distributions in respect of any shares or to vote such shares on any matter submitted to the stockholders of the Company.  In addition, except as to adjustments that may from time to time be made by the Committee in accordance with the Long-Term Incentive Plan, no adjustment shall be made or required to be made in respect of dividends (ordinary or extraordinary, whether in cash, securities or any other property) or distributions paid or made by the Company or any other rights granted in respect of any shares for which the record date for such payment, distribution or grant is prior to the date upon which certificates evidencing such shares shall have been issued by the Company.
7.            
.
No Stockholder Rights
 
.  The Committee shall have the power to interpret the Long-Term Incentive Plan, the Notice of Grant and this Award, and to adopt such rules for the administration, interpretation, and application of the Long-Term Incentive Plan as are consistent therewith and to interpret or revoke any such rules.  All actions taken and all interpretations and determinations made by the Committee shall be final and binding upon the Participant, the Company, and all other interested persons.  No member of the Committee shall be personally liable for any action, determination, or interpretation made in good faith with respect to the Long-Term Incentive Plan or this Award.
8.            
Administration
 
Upon the acquisition of any shares of Common Stock pursuant to the vesting of the Restricted Stock Units granted pursuant hereto, the Participant may be required to enter into such written representations, warranties and agreements as the Company may reasonably request in order to comply with applicable securities laws, the Long-Term
9.            
.
Restrictions and Related Representations
 
Incentive Plan or with this Award.  In addition, to the extent a certificate or certificates are issued representing any shares, the certificate or certificates will be stamped or otherwise imprinted with a legend in such form as the Company may require with respect to any applicable restrictions on sale or transfer, and the stock transfer records of the Company will reflect stop-transfer instructions, as appropriate, with respect to such shares.
 
  Unless otherwise provided herein, any notice or other communication hereunder shall be in writing and shall be given by registered or certified mail unless the Company, in its sole discretion, decides to deliver any documents relating to the Award or future awards that may be granted under the Long-Term Incentive Plan by electronic means or to request the Participant's consent to participate in the Long-Term Incentive Plan by electronic means.  The Participant hereby consents to receive such documents by electronic delivery and, if requested, to agree to participate in the Long-Term Incentive Plan through an on-line or electronic system established and maintained by the Company or another third party designated by the Company.   All notices by the Participant hereunder shall be directed to Fossil, Inc., Attention: Secretary, at the Company's then current address unless the Company, in writing or electronically, directs the Participant otherwise.  Any notice given by the Company to the Participant directed to him at his address on file with the Company shall be effective to bind any other person who shall acquire rights hereunder.  The Participant shall be deemed to have familiarized himself with all matters contained herein and in the Long-Term Incentive Plan which may affect any of the Participant's rights or privileges hereunder.
10.          
.
Notices and Electronic Delivery
 
  Whenever the term "Participant" is used herein under circumstances applicable to any other person or persons to whom this Award may be assigned in accordance with the provisions of Paragraph 6 (Assignability) of this Agreement, it shall be deemed to include such person or persons.  The term "Long-Term Incentive Plan" as used herein shall be deemed to include the Long-Term Incentive Plan and any subsequent amendments thereto, together with any administrative interpretations which have been adopted thereunder by the Committee pursuant to Section 3.3 of the Long-Term Incentive Plan. Unless otherwise indicated, defined terms herein shall have the meaning ascribed to them in the Long-Term Incentive Plan.
11.          
Scope of Certain Terms
.
 
.  This Award is subject to the requirement that, if at any time the Committee shall determine that (a) the listing, registration or qualification of the shares of Common Stock subject or related thereto upon any securities exchange or under any state or federal law; (b) the consent or approval of any government regulatory body; or (c) an agreement by the recipient of an Award with respect to the disposition of shares of Common Stock, is necessary or desirable (in connection with any requirement or interpretation of any federal or state securities law, rule or regulation) as a condition of, or in connection with, the granting of such Award or the issuance, purchase or delivery of shares of Common Stock thereunder, such Award may not be consummated in whole or in part unless such listing, registration, qualification, consent, approval or agreement shall have been effected or obtained free of any conditions not acceptable to the Committee.
12.          
General Restrictions
 
.  The number of Restricted Stock Units covered by this Award shall be subject to adjustment in accordance with Articles 12-14 of the Long-Term Incentive Plan.
13.          
Adjustments for Changes in Capitalization
 
Neither the granting of the Restricted Stock Units, the exercise of any part hereof, nor any provision of the Long-Term Incentive Plan or this Award shall constitute or be evidence of any understanding, express or implied, on the part of the Company or any Subsidiary to employ the Participant for any specified period.
14.          
.
No Right of Employment
.  This Award may be amended only by a writing executed by the Company and the Participant which specifically states that it is amending this Award.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, this Award may be amended solely by the Committee by a writing which specifically states that it is amending this Award, so long as a copy of such amendment is delivered to the Participant, and provided that no such amendment adversely affecting the rights of the Participant hereunder may be made without the Participant's written consent.  Without limiting the foregoing, the Committee reserves the right to change, by written notice to the Participant, the provisions of the Restricted Stock Units or this Award in any way it may deem necessary or advisable to carry out the purpose of the grant as a result of any change in applicable laws or regulations or any future law, regulation, ruling, or judicial decision, provided that any such change shall be applicable only to Restricted Stock Units which are then subject to restrictions as provided herein.
15.          
Amendment
 
  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, the Participant agrees that the Company will not be obligated to issue any shares pursuant to this Award, if the issuance of such shares would constitute a violation by the Participant or by the Company of any provision of any law or regulation of any governmental authority or any national securities exchange or transaction quotation system.
16.          
.
Precondition of Legality
 
This Award is subject to the Long-Term Incentive Plan, a copy of which has been furnished to the Participant and for which the Participant acknowledges receipt.  The terms and provisions of the Long-Term Incentive Plan are incorporated by reference herein.  In the event of a conflict between any term or provision contained here in and a term or provision of the Long-Term Incentive Plan, the applicable terms and provisions of the Long-Term Incentive Plan shall govern and prevail.
17.          
.
Incorporation of the Long-Term Incentive Plan
 
.  If one or more of the provisions of this Award shall be held invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby and the invalid, illegal or unenforceable provisions shall be deemed null and void; however, to the extent permissible by law, any provisions which could be deemed null and void shall first be construed, interpreted or revised retroactively to permit this Award to be construed so as to first the intent of this Award and the Long-Term Incentive Plan.
18.          
Severability
 
.  The Restricted Stock Units are being issued pursuant to Section 6.6 of the Long-Term Incentive Plan and are subject to the terms of the Long-Term Incentive Plan.  A copy of the Long-Term Incentive Plan has been given to the Participant, and additional copies of the Long-Term Incentive Plan are available upon request during normal business hours at the principal executive offices of the Company.  To the extent that any provision of this Award violates or is inconsistent with an express provision of the Long-Term Incentive Plan, the Long-Term Incentive Plan provision shall govern and any inconsistent provision in this Award shall be of no force or effect.
19.          
Construction
 
The Restricted Stock Unit grant and the provisions of this Award are governed by, and subject to, the laws of the State of Delaware, as provided in the Long-Term Incentive Plan.
20.          
. 
Governing Law

Exhibit 10.4
This RESTRICTED STOCK UNIT AWARD(the "Award"), is entered into effect as of the date of the grant (the "Effective Date")
 
, the Company has adopted the Fossil, Inc. 2008 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the "Long-Term Incentive Plan"), effective as of the Effective Date (as defined in the Long-Term Incentive Plan), with the objective of advancing the best interests of the Company, its Subsidiaries and its stockholders in order to attract, retain and motivate key employees with additional incentives through the award of Restricted Stock Units; and
WHEREAS
 
, the Long-Term Incentive Plan provides that Eligible Participants of the Company or its Subsidiaries, as determined in the judgment of the Committee, may be granted an Award which may consist of grants of restricted units of common stock, par value $.01 per share ("Common Stock"), of the Company;
WHEREAS
 
, the Participant identified in the Notice of Grant is hereby awarded Restricted Stock Units in accordance with the following terms:
NOW, THEREFORE
 
.  Subject to the terms and conditions set forth in the Long-Term Incentive Plan, this Award, Appendix A and in the Notice of Grant, the Company hereby grants to the Participant an award of those Restricted Stock Units specified in the Notice of Grant, subject to adjustment from time to time as provided in Articles 12-14 of the Long-Term Incentive Plan. Each Restricted Stock Unit shall consist of the right to receive, upon the Vesting Date, a share of Common Stock for each vested Unit, which shall be electronically registered by the Company in the name of the Participant as promptly as practicable following the Vesting Date.
1.            
Grant of Award; Restricted Stock Units
 
.  If the Participant remains continuously employed by the Company or a Subsidiary through each Vesting Date set forth in the Notice of Grant, the Restricted Stock Units shall vest (it being understood that Units shall vest cumulatively) and the Company shall electronically register one share of Common Stock in the Participant's name for each vested Unit.
2.            
Vesting
 
Notwithstanding the vesting conditions set forth in the Notice of Grant: (i) the Committee may in its discretion at any time accelerate the vesting of Restricted Stock Units or otherwise waive or amend any conditions of a grant of a Restricted Stock Units; and (ii) all of the Restricted Stock Units shall vest upon a Change in Control of the Company or upon the death of the Participant.
 
.  If the Participant's active employment is terminated by the Participant or by the Company or a Subsidiary (whether or not in breach of local labor laws) before a Vesting Date for any reason other than the Participant's death, any then unvested Restricted Stock Units shall be forfeited as of such termination and will not be extended by any notice or other period mandated under local law (, active employment does not include a period of "garden leave" or similar period pursuant to local law).
3.            
Termination of Employment
e.g.
 
.  Shares of Common Stock evidencing the conversion of Restricted Stock Units into shares of Common Stock shall be electronically registered in the Participant's name as of (or as promptly as practicable after) each Vesting Date.  No stock certificate or certificates shall be issued with respect to such shares of Common Stock, unless, the Participant requests delivery of the certificate or certificates by submitting a written request to the General Counsel requesting deliver of the certificates.  Subject to Section 6 of this Award, the Company shall deliver the certificates requested by the Participant to the Participant as soon as administratively practicable following the Company's receipt of such request. Upon registration (or issuance) of any shares hereunder,  the Participant may be required to enter into such written representations, warranties and agreements as the Company may reasonably request in order to comply with applicable securities laws, the Long-Term Incentive Plan or with the Notice of Grant.
4.            
Stock Certificates
 
.  The Participants holding Restricted Stock Units shall be entitled to receive dividend equivalent payments equal to any cash dividends and other distributions paid with respect to a corresponding number of shares of Common Stock, provided that if any such dividend equivalent payments or distributions are paid in shares of Common Stock, the Fair Market Value of such shares of Common Stock shall be converted into Restricted Stock Units, and further provided that such Restricted Stock Units shall be subject to the same forfeiture restrictions and restrictions on transferability as apply to the Restricted Stock Units with respect to which they relate.
5.            
Dividends
 
.  Regardless of any action the Company or the Participant's actual employer (the "Employer") takes with respect to any or all income tax (including federal, state and local taxes), social insurance, payroll tax, payment on account or other tax-related withholding ("Tax-Related Items"), the Participant acknowledges that the ultimate liability for all Tax-Related Items legally due by the Participant is and remains the Participant's responsibility and that the Company and/or the Participant's actual employer (i) make no representations or undertakings regarding the treatment of any Tax-Related Items in connection with any aspect of the Restricted Stock Units, including the grant of the Restricted Stock Units, the vesting of Restricted Stock Units, the conversion of the Restricted Stock Units into shares or the receipt of a dividend equivalent payment, the subsequent sale of any shares acquired at vesting and the receipt of any dividends; and (ii) do not commit to structure the terms of the grant or any aspect of the Restricted Stock Units to reduce or eliminate the Participant's liability for Tax-Related Items.
6.            
Tax Withholding Obligations
 
Prior to the issuance of shares upon vesting of Restricted Stock Units, the Participant shall pay, or make adequate arrangements satisfactory to the Company or to the Employer (in their sole discretion) to satisfy all Tax-Related Items withholding obligations of the Company and/or the Employer.  In this regard, the Participant authorizes the Company or the Employer to withhold all applicable Tax-Related Items legally payable by the Participant from the Participant's wages or other cash compensation payable to the Participant by the Company or the Employer.  Alternatively, or in addition, the Company or the Employer may, in its sole discretion, (a) sell or arrange for the sale of shares of Common Stock (in either case on your behalf and at your direction pursuant to this authorization) to be issued on the vesting of Stock Units to satisfy the Tax-Related Item withholding obligation, and/or (b) withhold in shares, provided that the Company and the Employer shall withhold only the amount of shares necessary to satisfy the minimum withholding amount.  If the obligation for Tax-Related Items is satisfied by withholding a number of shares of Common Stock as described herein, the Participant understands that he or she will be deemed to have been issued the full number of shares of Common Stock subject to the converted Restricted Stock Units, notwithstanding that a number of shares are held back solely for the purpose of paying the Tax-Related Items that are due.  The Participant shall pay to the Company or to the Employer any amount of Tax-Related Items that the Company or the Employer may be required to withhold as a result of the Participant's receipt of Restricted Stock Units, the vesting of Restricted Stock Units and the issuance of shares of Common Stock that cannot be satisfied by the means previously
described.  The Company may refuse to deliver shares to the Participant if the Participant fails to comply with the Participant's obligation in connection with the Tax-Related Items as described herein.
 
In accepting the Award, the Participant acknowledges that:
7.            
. 
Nature of Grant
 
(a)           the Long-Term Incentive Plan is established voluntarily by the Company, it is discretionary in nature and may be modified, amended, suspended or terminated by the Company at any time, as provided in the Long-Term Incentive Plan;
 
(b)           the Award of Restricted Stock Units is voluntary and occasional and does not create any contractual or other right to receive future awards of Restricted Stock Units, or benefits in lieu of Restricted Stock Units even if Restricted Stock Units have been awarded repeatedly in the past;
 
(c)           all decisions with respect to future awards, if any, will be at the sole discretion of the Company;
 
(d)           The Participant's participation in the Long-Term Incentive Plan is voluntary;
 
(e)           Restricted Stock Units are an extraordinary item that does not constitute compensation of any kind for services of any kind rendered to the Company or to the Employer, and Restricted Stock Units are outside the scope of the Participant's employment contract, if any;
 
(f)            Restricted Stock Units are not part of normal or expected compensation or salary for any purposes, including, but not limited to, calculation of any severance, resignation, termination, redundancy, end of service payments, bonuses, long-service awards, pension or retirement benefits or similar payments;
 
(g)           neither the Award of Restricted Stock Units nor any provision of this Award Agreement, the Long-Term Incentive Plan or the policies adopted pursuant to the Long-Term Incentive Plan confer upon the Participant any right with respect to employment, and in the event that the Participant is not an employee of the Company, Restricted Stock Units shall not be interpreted to form an employment contract or relationship with the Company;
 
(h)           the future value of the underlying shares is unknown and cannot be predicted with certainty;
 
(i)            if the Participant receives shares, the value of such shares acquired on vesting of Restricted Stock Units may increase or decrease in value; and
 
(j)            no claim or entitlement to compensation or damages arises from termination of Restricted Stock Units, and no claim or entitlement to compensation or damages shall arise from any diminution in value of the Restricted Stock Units or shares received upon vesting of Restricted Stock Units resulting from termination of the Participant's employment by the Company or the Employer (for any reason whatsoever and whether or not in breach of local labor laws) and the Participant irrevocably releases the Company and the Employer from any such claim that may arise; if, notwithstanding the foregoing, any such claim is found by a court of competent jurisdiction to have arisen, then, by signing this Award Agreement, the Participant shall be deemed irrevocably to have waived his or her entitlement to pursue such claim.
 
8.            
.  The Participant hereby explicitly and unambiguously consents to the collection, use and transfer, in electronic or other form, of the
Data Privacy Notice and Consent
 
Participant's
personal data as described in this Award Agreement by and among, as applicable, the Participant's employer, the Company, its Subsidiaries and its affiliates for the exclusive purpose of implementing, administering and managing the Participant's participation in the Long-Term Incentive Plan.
 
The Participant
the Participant's employer may hold certain personal information about the Participant, including, but not limited to, the Participant's name, home address and telephone number, date of birth, social insurance number or other identification number, salary, nationality, job title, any shares of stock or directorships held in the Company, details of all Restricted Stock Units or any other entitlement to shares awarded, canceled, vested, unvested or outstanding in the Participant's favor, for the purpose of implementing, administering and managing the Long-Term Incentive Plan ("Data").  The Participant understands that Data may be transferred to any third parties assisting in the implementation, administration and management of the Long-Term Incentive Plan, that these recipients may be located in the Participant's country, or elsewhere, and that the recipient's country may have different data privacy laws and protections than the Participant's country.  The Participant understands that the Participant may request a list with the names and addresses of any potential recipients of the Data by contacting the Participant's local human resources representative.  The Participant authorizes the recipients to receive, possess, use, retain and transfer the Data, in electronic or other form, for the purposes of implementing, administering and managing the Participant's participation in the Long-Term Incentive Plan, including any requisite transfer of such Data as may be required to a broker, escrow agent or other third party with whom the shares received upon vesting of the Restricted Stock Units may be deposited.  The Participant understands that Data will be held only as long as is necessary to implement, administer and manage the Participant's participation in the Long-Term Incentive Plan.  the Participant understands that the Participant may, at any time, view Data, request additional information about the storage and processing of Data, require any necessary amendments to Data or refuse or withdraw the consents herein, in any case without cost, by contacting in writing the Participant's local human resources representative.  The Participant understands that refusal or withdrawal of consent may affect the Participant's ability to participate in the Long-Term Incentive Plan.  For more information on the consequences of the Participant's refusal to consent or withdrawal of consent, the Participant understands that the Participant may contact the Participant's local human resources representative.
understands that the Company and
 
.  Until the Restricted Stock Units are vested as provided above, they may not be sold, transferred, pledged, assigned, or otherwise alienated other than in accordance with Section 16.7 of the Long-Term Incentive Plan at any time.  Any attempt to do so contrary to the provisions hereof shall be null and void.  No assignment of the Restricted Stock Units herein granted shall be effective to bind the Company unless the Company shall have been furnished with written notice thereof and a copy of such documents and evidence as the Company may deem necessary to establish the validity of the assignment and the acceptance by the assignee or assignees of the terms and conditions hereof.
9.            
Assignability
 
.  The Participant shall not have voting or any other rights as a stockholder of the Company with respect to the Restricted Stock Units.  Upon settlement of the Restricted Stock Units into shares of Common Stock, the Participant will obtain full voting and other rights as a stockholder of the Company.
10.          
Rights as Stockholder
 
.  The Committee shall have the power to interpret the Long-Term Incentive Plan, the Notice of Grant and this Award, and to adopt such rules for the administration, interpretation, and application of the Long-Term Incentive Plan as are consistent therewith and to interpret or revoke any such rules.  All actions taken and all interpretations and determinations made by the Committee shall be final and binding upon the Participant, the Company, and all other interested
11.          
Administration
persons.  No member of the Committee shall be personally liable for any action, determination, or interpretation made in good faith with respect to the Long-Term Incentive Plan or this Award.
 
Upon the acquisition of any shares of Common Stock pursuant to the vesting of the Restricted Stock Units granted pursuant hereto, the Participant may be required to enter into such written representations, warranties and agreements as the Company may reasonably request in order to comply with applicable securities laws, the Long-Term Incentive Plan or with this Award.  In addition, to the extent a certificate or certificates are issued representing any shares, the certificate or certificates will be stamped or otherwise imprinted with a legend in such form as the Company may require with respect to any applicable restrictions on sale or transfer, and the stock transfer records of the Company will reflect stop-transfer instructions, as appropriate, with respect to such shares.
12.          
.
Restrictions and Related Representations
 
  Unless otherwise provided herein, any notice or other communication hereunder shall be in writing and shall be given by registered or certified mail unless the Company, in its sole discretion, decides to deliver any documents related to Restricted Stock Units awarded under the Long-Term Incentive Plan or future restricted stock units that may be awarded under the Long-Term Incentive Plan by electronic means or request the Participant's consent to participate in the Long-Term Incentive Plan by electronic means.  The Participant's hereby consents to receive such documents by electronic delivery and agrees to participate in the Long-Term Incentive Plan through an on-line or electronic system established and maintained by the Company or another third party designated by the Company.  Any notice given by the Company to the Participant directed to him at his address on file with the Company shall be effective to bind any other person who shall acquire rights hereunder.  The Participant shall be deemed to have familiarized himself with all matters contained herein and in the Long-Term Incentive Plan which may affect any of the Participant's rights or privileges hereunder.
13.          
.
Notices and Electronic Delivery
 
  Whenever the term "Participant" is used herein under circumstances applicable to any other person or persons to whom this Award may be assigned in accordance with the provisions of Section 9 (Assignability) of this Agreement, it shall be deemed to include such person or persons.  The term "Long-Term Incentive Plan" as used herein shall be deemed to include the Long-Term Incentive Plan and any subsequent amendments thereto, together with any administrative interpretations which have been adopted thereunder by the Committee pursuant to Section 3.3 of the Long-Term Incentive Plan. Unless otherwise indicated, defined terms herein shall have the meaning ascribed to them in the Long-Term Incentive Plan.
14.          
Scope of Certain Terms
.
 
.  This Award is subject to the requirement that, if at any time the Committee shall determine that (a) the listing, registration or qualification of the shares of Common Stock subject or related thereto upon any securities exchange or under any state or federal law; (b) the consent or approval of any government regulatory body; or (c) an agreement by the recipient of an Award with respect to the disposition of shares of Common Stock, is necessary or desirable (in connection with any requirement or interpretation of any federal or state securities law, rule or regulation) as a condition of, or in connection with, the granting of such Award or the issuance, purchase or delivery of shares of Common Stock thereunder, such Award may not be consummated in whole or in part unless such listing, registration, qualification, consent, approval or agreement shall have been effected or obtained free of any conditions not acceptable to the Committee.
15.          
General Restrictions
 
.  The number of Restricted Stock Units covered by this Award shall be subject to adjustment in accordance with Articles 12-14 of the Long-Term Incentive Plan.
16.          
Adjustments for Changes in Capitalization
.  If all or any part of this Award or the Long-Term Incentive Plan is declared by any court or governmental authority to be unlawful or invalid, such unlawfulness or invalidity shall not invalidate any portion of this Award or the Long-Term Incentive Plan not declared to be unlawful or invalid.  Any Section of this Award (or part of such a Section) so declared to be unlawful or invalid shall, if possible, be construed in a manner which will give effect to the terms of such Section or part of a Section to the fullest extent possible while remaining lawful and valid.
17.          
Severability
 
Neither the granting of the Restricted Stock Units, the exercise of any part hereof, nor any provision of the Long-Term Incentive Plan or this Award shall constitute or be evidence of any understanding, express or implied, on the part of the Company or any Subsidiary to employ the Participant for any specified period.
18.          
.
No Right of Employment
 
  This Award may be amended only by a writing executed by the Company and the Participant which specifically states that it is amending this Award.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, this Award may be amended solely by the Committee by a writing which specifically states that it is amending this Award, so long as a copy of such amendment is delivered to the Participant, and provided that no such amendment adversely affecting the rights of the Participant hereunder may be made without the Participant's written consent.  Without limiting the foregoing, the Committee reserves the right to change, by written notice to the Participant, the provisions of the Restricted Stock Units or this Award in any way it may deem necessary or advisable to carry out the purpose of the grant as a result of any change in applicable laws or regulations or any future law, regulation, ruling, or judicial decision, provided that any such change shall be applicable only to Restricted Stock Units which are then subject to restrictions as provided herein.
19.          
.
Amendment
 
  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, the Participant agrees that the Company will not be obligated to issue any shares pursuant to this Award, if the issuance of such shares would constitute a violation by the Participant or by the Company of any provision of any law or regulation of any governmental authority or any national securities exchange or transaction quotation system.
20.          
.
Precondition of Legality
 
This Award is subject to the Long-Term Incentive Plan, a copy of which has been furnished to the Participant and for which the Participant acknowledges receipt.  The terms and provisions of the Long-Term Incentive Plan are incorporated by reference herein.  In the event of a conflict between any term or provision contained here in and a term or provision of the Long-Term Incentive Plan, the applicable terms and provisions of the Long-Term Incentive Plan shall govern and prevail.
21.          
.
Incorporation of the Long-Term Incentive Plan
 
.  The Restricted Stock Units are being issued pursuant to Section 6.6 of the Long-Term Incentive Plan and are subject to the terms of the Long-Term Incentive Plan.  A copy of the Long-Term Incentive Plan has been given to the Participant, and additional copies of the Long-Term Incentive Plan are available upon request during normal business hours at the principal executive offices of the Company.  To the extent that any provision of this Award violates or is inconsistent with an express provision of the Long-Term Incentive Plan, the Long-Term Incentive Plan provision shall govern and any inconsistent provision in this Award shall be of no force or effect.
22.          
Construction
 
.  If the Participant has received this Award Agreement or any other document related to the Long-Term Incentive Plan translated into a language other than English and if the translated version is different than the English version, the English version will control.
23.          
Language
 
.  The Restricted Stock Unit grant and the provisions of this Award Agreement are governed by, and subject to, the laws of the State of Delaware,as provided in the Long-Term Incentive Plan.
24.          
Governing Law
 

Exhibit 10.5
 
RESTRICTED STOCK AWARD
under the Fossil, Inc. 2008 Long-Term Incentive Plan
 
This RESTRICTED STOCK AWARD(the "Award"), is entered into effect as of the date of grant (the "Effective Date").
 
WHEREAS
, Fossil, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company")  has adopted the Fossil, Inc. 2008 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the "Long-Term Incentive Plan"), effective as of the Effective Date (as defined in the Long-Term Incentive Plan), with the objective of advancing the best interests of the Company, its Subsidiaries and its stockholders in order to attract, retain and motivate key employees with additional incentives through the award of Restricted Shares of Common Stock of the Company; and
 
WHEREAS
, the Long-Term Incentive Plan provides that Eligible Participants of the Company or its Subsidiaries, as determined in the judgment of the Committee, may be granted an Award of Restricted Shares of common stock, par value $.01 per share ("Common Stock"), of the Company;
 
NOW, THEREFORE
, the Participant identified in the Notice of Grant is hereby awarded shares of Restricted Stock in accordance with the following terms:
 
1.            
Grant of Award; Restricted Stock
.  Subject to the terms and conditions set forth in the Long-Term Incentive Plan, this Award and in the Notice of Grant, the Company hereby grants to the Participant an award of Restricted Stock specified in the Notice of Grant, subject to adjustment from time to time as provided in Articles 12, 13 and 14 of the Long-Term Incentive Plan.
 
2.            
Restrictions on Transfer.
Stock certificates representing the Restricted Stock granted hereunder shall be electronically registered in the Participant's name, which shall bear a legend to restrict transfer of the certificates until the Restricted Stock has vested, as set forth in Paragraph 3 hererof.  No stock certificate or certificates shall be issued with respect to such shares of Restricted Stock, unless, following the date such Restricted Stock vests without forfeiture, the Participant requests delivery of the certificate or certificates by submitting a written request to the General Counsel requesting deliver of the certificates.  The Company shall deliver the certificates requested by the Participant to the Participant as soon as administratively practicable following the Company's receipt of such request.   Except as may otherwise be expressly permitted by the Committee, no share of Restricted Stock may be sold, transferred, assigned, or pledged by the Participant until such share has vested in accordance with the terms hereof, other than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution.
 
The terms of this Agreement and the Long-Term Incentive Plan applicable to the Restricted Stock granted hereunder shall be binding upon the executors, administrators, heirs and successors of the Participant.
 
3.            
Vesting
.
  If the Participant remains continuously employed by the Company or a Subsidiary, the Restricted Stock shall vest in accordance with the vesting schedule set forth in the Notice of Grant (it being understood that the right to transfer the Restricted Stock shall be cumulative, so that the Participant may transfer on or after any such anniversary that number of shares of Restricted Stock which the Participant was entitled to transfer but did not transfer during any preceding period or periods).  Notwithstanding the vesting conditions set forth herein: (i) the Committee may in its discretion at any time accelerate the vesting of
 
Restricted Stock or otherwise waive or amend any conditions of a grant of a Restricted Stock; and (ii) all the Restricted Stock shall vest upon a Change in Control of upon the death of the Participant.
 
4.            
Termination in Event of Nonemployment.
 In the event that the Participant ceases to be employed by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries for any reason other than death, the Restricted Stock granted pursuant to this Agreement shall be forfeited, except to the extent that they have vested and become transferable in accordance with the provisions of Paragraph 3 on the date the Participant ceases to be so employed.   In the event of a forfeiture of the Restricted Stock upon the Participant's termination of employment before all the Participant's Restricted Stock has vested,  any purchase price paid by the Participant shall be returned to the Participant.
 
5.            
Assignability
.
  The rights granted pursuant hereto shall not be assignable or transferable by the Participant other than by will or the laws of descent and distribution or pursuant to a qualified domestic relations order as defined by Code or Title I of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended.  Any attempt to do so contrary to the provisions hereof shall be null and void.  No assignment of the rights herein granted shall be effective to bind the Company unless the Company shall have been furnished with written notice thereof and a copy of such documents and evidence as the Company may deem necessary to establish the validity of the assignment and the acceptance by the assignee or assignees of the terms and conditions hereof.
 
6.            
Rights as a Stockholder
. 
Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, the Participant shall have, with respect to the Restricted Stock granted pursuant to this Award before it has vested, all of the rights of a stockholder of the Company, including the right to vote the shares, and the right to receive any dividends thereon.
 
7.             .  The Committee shall have the power to interpret the Long-Term Incentive Plan, the Notice of Grant and this Award, and to adopt such rules for the administration, interpretation, and application of the Long-Term Incentive Plan as are consistent therewith and to interpret or revoke any such rules.  All actions taken and all interpretations and determinations made by the Committee shall be final and binding upon the Participant, the Company, and all other interested persons.  No member of the Committee shall be personally liable for any action, determination, or interpretation made in good faith with respect to the Long-Term Incentive Plan or this Award.
Administration
 
8.            
Section 83(b) Election
.
  If the Participant is subject to a "substantial risk of forfeiture" of the Restricted Stock granted hereunder, such Participant may elect under Section 83(b) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"), to include in his gross income, for the taxable year in which the Restricted Stock is received, the excess of the Fair Market Value of such Restricted Stock on the date of grant (determined without regard to any restriction other than one which by its terms will never lapse), over the amount paid for the Restricted Stock.  If the Participant makes the Section 83(b) election, the Participant shall (a) make such election in a manner that is satisfactory to the Committee, (b) provide the Company with a copy of such election, (c) agree to promptly notify the Company if any Internal Revenue Service or state tax agent, on audit or otherwise, questions the validity or correctness of such election or of the amount of income reportable on account of such election, and (d) agree to such federal and state income tax withholding as the Committee may reasonably require in its sole discretion.  The Participant is hereby advised to consult immediately with his own tax advisor regarding the tax consequences of this Award, the method and timing for filing an election to include this Award in income under Section 83 of the Code, and the tax consequences of such an election.
 
9.            
Tax Withholding Obligations
.  The Participant shall be required to deposit with the Company an amount of cash equal to the amount determined by the Company to be required with respect to
 
any withholding taxes, FICA contributions, or the like under any federal, state, or local statute, ordinance, rule, or regulation in connection with the award of the Restricted Stock.  Alternatively, the Company may, at its sole election, (i) withhold the required amounts from the Participant's pay during the pay periods next following the date on which any such applicable tax liability otherwise arises, or (ii) withhold a number of shares of Common Stock otherwise deliverable having a Fair Market Value sufficient to satisfy the statutory minimum of all or part of the Participant's estimated total federal, state, and local tax obligations associated with vesting or award of the Restricted Stock.
 
10.          
Restrictions and Related Representations
.
Upon the acquisition of any Restricted Stock hereunder, the Participant may be required to enter into such written representations, warranties and agreements as the Company may reasonably request in order to comply with applicable securities laws, the Long-Term Incentive Plan, the Notice of Grant or with this Award.  In addition, to the extent a certificate or certificates are issued representing any Restricted Stock, the certificate or certificates will be stamped or otherwise imprinted with a legend in such form as the Company may require with respect to any applicable restrictions on sale or transfer, and the stock transfer records of the Company will reflect stop-transfer instructions, as appropriate, with respect to such Restricted Stock.
 
11.          
Notices and Electronic Delivery
.
  Unless otherwise provided herein, any notice or other communication hereunder shall be in writing and shall be given by registered or certified mail unless the Company, in its sole discretion, decides to deliver any documents relating to the Award or future awards that may be granted under the Long-Term Incentive Plan by electronic means or to request the Participant's consent to participate in the Long-Term Incentive Plan by electronic means.  The Participant hereby consents to receive such documents by electronic delivery and, if requested, to agree to participate in the Long-Term Incentive Plan through an on-line or electronic system established and maintained by the Company or another third party designated by the Company.  All notices by the Participant hereunder shall be directed to Fossil, Inc., Attention: Secretary, at the Company's then current address unless the Company, in writing or electronically, directs the Participant otherwise.  Any notice given by the Company to the Participant hereunder shall be directed to him at his address on file with the Company and shall be effective to bind any other person who shall acquire rights hereunder.  The Participant shall be deemed to have familiarized himself with all matters contained herein and in the Long-Term Incentive Plan which may affect any of the Participant's rights or privileges hereunder.
 
12.          
Scope of Certain Terms
.
  Whenever the term "Participant" is used herein under circumstances applicable to any other person or persons to whom this Award may be assigned in accordance with the provisions of Paragraph 5 (Assignability) of this Agreement, it shall be deemed to include such person or persons.  The term "Long-Term Incentive Plan" as used herein shall be deemed to include the Long-Term Incentive Plan and any subsequent amendments thereto, together with any administrative interpretations which have been adopted thereunder by the Committee pursuant to Section 3.3 of the Long-Term Incentive Plan. Unless otherwise indicated, defined terms herein shall have the meaning ascribed to them in the Long-Term Incentive Plan.
 
13.          
General Restrictions
.  This Award is subject to the requirement that, if at any time the Committee shall determine that (a) the listing, registration or qualification of the shares of Common Stock subject or related thereto upon any securities exchange or under any state or federal law; (b) the consent or approval of any government regulatory body; or (c) an agreement by the recipient of an Award with respect to the disposition of shares of Common Stock, is necessary or desirable (in connection with any requirement or interpretation of any federal or state securities law, rule or regulation) as a condition of, or in connection with, the granting of such Award or the issuance, purchase or delivery of shares of Common Stock thereunder, such Award may not be consummated in whole or in part unless such listing, registration, qualification, consent,
 
approval or agreement shall have been effected or obtained free of any conditions not acceptable to the Committee.
 
14.          
Adjustments for Changes in Capitalization
.  The number of shares of Restricted Stock covered by this Award shall be subject to adjustment in accordance with Articles 12-14 of the Long-Term Incentive Plan.
 
15.          
No Right of Employment
.
Neither the granting of this Award nor any provision of the Long-Term Incentive Plan or this Award shall constitute or be evidence of any understanding, express or implied, on the part of the Company or any Subsidiary to employ the Participant for any specified period.
 
16.          
Amendment
.  This Award may be amended only by a writing executed by the Company and the Participant which specifically states that it is amending this Award.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, this Award may be amended solely by the Committee by a writing which specifically states that it is amending this Award, so long as a copy of such amendment is delivered to the Participant, and provided that no such amendment adversely affecting the rights of the Participant hereunder may be made without the Participant's written consent.  Without limiting the foregoing, the Committee reserves the right to change, by written notice to the Participant, the provisions of the Restricted Stock or this Award in any way it may deem necessary or advisable to carry out the purpose of the grant as a result of any change in applicable laws or regulations or any future law, regulation, ruling, or judicial decision, provided that any such change shall be applicable only to Restricted Stock which are then subject to restrictions as provided herein.
 
17.          
Incorporation of the Long-Term Incentive Plan
.
This Agreement is subject to the Long-Term Incentive Plan, a copy of which has been furnished to the Participant herewith and for which the Participant acknowledges receipt. The terms and provisions of the Long-Term Incentive Plan are incorporated by reference herein.  In the event of a conflict between any term or provision contained herein and a term or provision of the Long-Term Incentive Plan, the applicable terms and provisions of the Long-Term Incentive Plan shall govern and prevail.
 
18.          
Severability.
If one or more of the provisions of this Award shall be held invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby and the invalid, illegal or unenforceable provisions shall be deemed null and void; however, to the extent permissible by law, any provisions which could be deemed null and void shall first be construed, interpreted or revised retroactively to permit this Award to be construed so as to first the intent of this Award and the Long-Term Incentive Plan.
 
19.          
Construction
.  The Restricted Stock is being issued pursuant to Section 6.4 of the Long-Term Incentive Plan and are subject to the terms of the Long-Term Incentive Plan.  A copy of the Long-Term Incentive Plan has been given to the Participant, and additional copies of the Long-Term Incentive Plan are available upon request during normal business hours at the principal executive offices of the Company.  To the extent that any provision of this Award violates or is inconsistent with an express provision of the Long-Term Incentive Plan, the Long-Term Incentive Plan provision shall govern and any inconsistent provision in this Award shall be of no force or effect.
 
20.          
Governing Law.
The Restricted Stock grant and the provisions of this Award are governed by, and subject to, the laws of the State of Delaware, as provided in the Long-Term Incentive Plan.

Exhibit 10.6
 
RESTRICTED STOCK AWARD
Under the Fossil, Inc. 2008 Long-Term Incentive Plan
For Non-U.S. Participants
This RESTRICTED STOCK AWARD(the "Award"), is entered into effect as of the date of the grant (the "Effective Date")
 
 
WHEREAS
, Fossil, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company") has adopted the Fossil, Inc. 2008 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the "Long-Term Incentive Plan"), effective as of the Effective Date (as defined in the Long-Term Incentive Plan), with the objective of advancing the best interests of the Company, its Subsidiaries and its stockholders in order to attract, retain and motivate key employees with additional incentives through the award of Restricted Shares of Common Stock of the Company; and
 
WHEREAS
, the Long-Term Incentive Plan provides that Eligible Participants of the Company or its Subsidiaries, as determined in the judgment of the Committee, may be granted an Award of Restricted Shares of common stock, par value $.01 per share ("Common Stock"), of the Company;
 
NOW, THEREFORE
, the Participant identified in the Notice of Grant is hereby awarded shares of Restricted Stock in accordance with the following terms:
 
1.            
Grant of Award; Restricted Stock
.  Subject to the terms and conditions set forth in the Long-Term Incentive Plan, this Award and in the Notice of Grant, the Company hereby grants to the Participant an award of Restricted Stock as specified in the Notice of Grant, subject to adjustment from time to time as provided in Articles 12-14 of the Long-Term Incentive Plan.
 
2.            
Restrictions on Transfer.
Stock certificates representing the Restricted Stock granted hereunder shall be electronically registered in the Participant's name, which shall bear a legend to restrict transfer of the certificates until the Restricted Stock has vested, as set forth in Paragraph 3 hererof.  No stock certificate or certificates shall be issued with respect to such shares of Restricted Stock, unless, following the date such Restricted Stock vests without forfeiture, the Participant requests delivery of the certificate or certificates by submitting a written request to theGeneral Counsel requesting deliver of the certificates.  The Company shall deliver the certificates requested by the Participant to the Participant as soon as administratively practicable following the Company's receipt of such request.   Except as may otherwise be expressly permitted by the Committee, no share of Restricted Stock may be sold, transferred, assigned, or pledged by the Participant until such share has vested in accordance with the terms hereof, other than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution.
 
The terms of the Restricted Stock granted hereunder shall be binding upon the executors, administrators, heirs and successors of the Participant.
 
3.            
Vesting
.
  If the Participant remains continuously employed by the Company or a Subsidiary, the Restricted Stock shall vest in accordance with the vesting schedule set forth in the Notice of Grant (it being understood that the right to transfer the Restricted Stock shall be cumulative, so that the Participant may transfer on or after any such anniversary that number of Restricted Stock which the Participant was entitled to transfer but did not transfer during any preceding period or periods).  Notwithstanding the vesting conditions set forth herein: (i) the Committee may in its discretion at any time accelerate the vesting of Restricted Stock or
 
otherwise waive or amend any conditions of a grant of a Restricted Stock; and (ii) all the Restricted Stock shall vest upon a Change in Control of upon the death of the Participant.
 
4.            
Tax Withholding.
 
Regardless of any action
the Company
or the Participant's actual
employer (the "Employer") takes with respect to any or all income tax (including federal, state and local taxes), social insurance, payroll tax, payment on account or other tax-related withholding ("Tax-Related Items"), the Participant acknowledges that the ultimate liability for all Tax-Related Items legally due by the Participant is and remains the Participant's responsibility and that the Company and/or the Employer (i) make no representations or undertakings regarding the treatment of any Tax-Related Items in connection with any aspect of the Restricted Stock, including the grant of the Restricted Stock, the vesting of Restricted Stock, the subsequent sale of any shares and the receipt of any dividends; and (ii) do not commit to structure the terms of the grant or any aspect of the Restricted Stock to reduce or eliminate the Participant's liability for Tax-Related Items.
 
Prior to the tax event for the Restricted Stock or the receipt of a dividend, the Participant shall pay, or make adequate arrangements satisfactory to the Company or to the Employer (in their sole discretion) to satisfy all Tax-Related Items withholding obligations of the Company and/or the Employer.  In this regard, the Participant authorizes the Company or the Employer to withhold all applicable Tax-Related Items legally payable by the Participant from the Participant's wages or other cash compensation payable to the Participant by the Company or the Employer.  Alternatively, or in addition, the Participant agrees and authorizes the sale of shares of Common Stock upon the lifting of any restrictions, as directed by the Company or the Employer, to satisfy the Tax-Related Items withholding obligation.  The Participant shall pay to the Company or to the Employer any amount of Tax-Related Items that the Company or the Employer may be required to withhold as a result of the Participant's receipt of Restricted Stock, the lifting of restrictions on the Restricted Stock, the receipt of any dividends that cannot be satisfied by the means previously described.  The Company may refuse to lift the restriction on the shares of Common Stock if the Participant fails to comply with the Participant's obligation in connection with the Tax-Related Items as described herein.
 
5.            
Acknowledgment of Nature of Plan and Restricted Stock
.  In accepting the Award, the Participant acknowledges that:
 
(a)           the Long-Term Incentive Plan is established voluntarily by the Company, it is discretionary in nature and may be modified, amended, suspended or terminated by the Company at any time, as provided in the Long-Term Incentive Plan;
 
(b)           the Award of Restricted Stock is voluntary and occasional and does not create any contractual or other right to receive future awards of Restricted Stock, or benefits in lieu of Restricted Stock even if Restricted Stock have been awarded repeatedly in the past;
 
(c)           all decisions with respect to future awards, if any, will be at the sole discretion of the Company;
 
(d)           The Participant's participation in the Long-Term Incentive Plan is voluntary;
 
(e)           Restricted Stock are an extraordinary item that does not constitute compensation of any kind for services of any kind rendered to the Company or to the Employer, and Restricted Stock are outside the scope of the Participant's employment contract, if any;
 
(f)            Restricted Stock are not part of normal or expected compensation or salary for any purposes, including, but not limited to, calculation of any severance, resignation, termination, redundancy, end of service
payments, bonuses, long-service awards, pension or retirement benefits or similar payments;
 
(g)           neither the Award of Restricted Stock nor any provision of this Award Agreement, the Long-Term Incentive Plan or the policies adopted pursuant to the Long-Term Incentive Plan confer upon the Participant any right with respect to employment or continuation of current employment, and in the event that the Participant is not an employee of the Company or any Subsidiary of the Company, Restricted Stock shall not be interpreted to form an employment contract or relationship with the Company or any Subsidiary of the Company;
 
(h)           the future value of the underlying shares is unknown and cannot be predicted with certainty;
 
(i)            the value of such shares acquired under the Long-Term Incentive Plan may increase or decrease in value; and
 
(j)            no claim or entitlement to compensation or damages arises from termination of Restricted Stock, and no claim or entitlement to compensation or damages shall arise from any diminution in value of the Restricted Stock or forfeiture of Restricted Stock resulting from termination of the Participant's employment by the Company or the Employer (for any reason whatsoever and whether or not in breach of local labor laws) and the Participant irrevocably releases the Company and the Employer from any such claim that may arise; if, notwithstanding the foregoing, any such claim is found by a court of competent jurisdiction to have arisen, then, by signing this Award Agreement, the Participant shall be deemed irrevocably to have waived his or her entitlement to pursue such claim.
 
6.            
Data Privacy Notice and Consent
.   The Participant hereby explicitly and unambiguously consents to the collection, use and transfer, in electronic or other form, of the Participant's personal data as described in this Award Agreement by and among, as applicable, the Participant's Employer, the Company, its Subsidiaries and its affiliates for the exclusive purpose of implementing, administering and managing the Participant's participation in the Long-Term Incentive Plan.
 
The Participant
understands that the Company and
the Participant's
Employer may hold certain personal information about
the Participant
, including, but not limited to,
the Participant's
name, home address and telephone number, date of birth, social insurance number or other identification number, salary, nationality, job title, any shares of stock or directorships held in the Company, details of all
Restricted Stock
or any other entitlement to shares awarded, canceled, vested, unvested or outstanding in
the Participant's
favor, for the purpose of implementing, administering and managing the Long-Term Incentive Plan ("Data"). The
Participant
understands that Data may be transferred to any third parties assisting in the implementation, administration and management of the Long-Term Incentive Plan, that these recipients may be located in
the Participant's
country, or elsewhere, and that the recipient's country may have different data privacy laws and protections than
the Participant's
country.  The
Participant
understands that
the Participant
may request a list with the names and addresses of any potential recipients of the Data by contacting
the Participant's
local human resources representative.  The
Participant
authorizes the recipients to receive, possess, use, retain and transfer the Data, in electronic or other form, for the purposes of implementing, administering and managing
the Participant's
participation in the Long-Term Incentive Plan, including any requisite transfer of such Data as may be required to a broker, escrow agent or other third party with whom the
Restricted Stock
may be deposited.  The
Participant
understands that Data will be held only as long as is necessary to implement, administer and manage
the Participant's
participation in the Long-Term Incentive Plan.  The
Participant
understands that
the Participant
may, at any time, view Data, request additional information about the storage and processing of Data, require any necessary amendments to Data or refuse or withdraw the consents herein, in any case without cost, by contacting in writing
the Participant's
local human resources representative.  The
Participant
understands
 
 
that refusal or withdrawal of consent may affect
the Participant's
ability to participate in the Long-Term Incentive Plan.  For more information on the consequences of
the Participant's
refusal to consent or withdrawal of consent,
the Participant
understands that
the Participant
may contact
the Participant's
local human resources representative.
 
7.            
Termination in Event of Nonemployment
.
 
In the event of the Participant's termination of active employment (whether or not in breach of local labor laws) before all the Participant's Restricted Stock has vested, or in the event other conditions to the vesting of Restricted Stock have not been satisfied prior to any deadline for the satisfaction of such conditions set forth herein, the shares of Restricted Stock that have not vested shall be forfeited as of the date of termination and will not be extended by any notice or other period mandated under local law (e.g., active employment does not include a period of "garden leave" or similar period pursuant to local law, and any purchase price paid by the Participant shall be returned to the Participant.
 
8.            
Assignability
.
  The rights granted pursuant hereto shall not be assignable or transferable by the Participant other than in accordance with Section 16.7 of the Long-Term Incentive Plan.  No assignment of the rights herein granted shall be effective to bind the Company unless the Company shall have been furnished with written notice thereof and a copy of such documents and evidence as the Company may deem necessary to establish the validity of the assignment and the acceptance by the assignee or assignees of the terms and conditions hereof.
 
9.            
Rights as a Stockholder
. 
Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, the Participant shall have, with respect to the Restricted Stock granted pursuant to this Award before it has vested, all of the rights of a stockholder of the Company, including the right to vote the shares, and the right to receive any dividends thereon.
 
10.          
Administration
.  The Committee shall have the power to interpret the Long-Term Incentive Plan, the Notice of Grant and this Award, and to adopt such rules for the administration, interpretation, and application of the Long-Term Incentive Plan as are consistent therewith and to interpret or revoke any such rules.  All actions taken and all interpretations and determinations made by the Committee shall be final and binding upon the Participant, the Company, and all other interested persons.  No member of the Committee shall be personally liable for any action, determination, or interpretation made in good faith with respect to the Long-Term Incentive Plan or this Award.
 
11.          
Restrictions and Related Representations
.
Upon the acquisition of any Restricted Stock hereunder, the Participant may be required to enter into such written representations, warranties and agreements as the Company may reasonably request in order to comply with applicable securities laws, the Long-Term Incentive Plan, the Notice of Grant or with this Award.  In addition, to the extent a certificate or certificates are issued representing any Restricted Stock, the certificate or certificates will be stamped or otherwise imprinted with a legend in such form as the Company may require with respect to any applicable restrictions on sale or transfer, and the stock transfer records of the Company will reflect stop-transfer instructions, as appropriate, with respect to such Restricted Stock.
 
12.          
Notices and Electronic Delivery
.
  Any notice or other communication hereunder shall be in writing and shall be given by registered or certified mail unless the Company, in its sole discretion, decides to deliver any documents related to the Restricted Stock or any future restricted stock that may be granted under the Long-Term Incentive Plan by electronic means or to request the Participant's consent to participate in the Long-Term Incentive Plan by electronic means.  The Participant hereby consents to receive such documents by electronic delivery and, if requested, to agree to participate in the Long-Term Incentive Plan through an on-line electronic system established and maintained by the Company or another third party designated by the Company.  Any notice given by the Company to the Participant directed to him at his address on file with the
 
 
Company shall be effective to bind any other person who shall acquire rights hereunder.  The Participant shall be deemed to have familiarized himself with all matters contained herein and in the Long-Term Incentive Plan which may affect any of the Participant's rights or privileges hereunder.
 
13.          
Scope of Certain Terms
.
  Whenever the term "Participant" is used herein under circumstances applicable to any other person or persons to whom this Award may be assigned in accordance with the provisions of Paragraph 8 (Assignability) of this Agreement, it shall be deemed to include such person or persons.  The term "Long-Term Incentive Plan" as used herein shall be deemed to include the Long-Term Incentive Plan and any subsequent amendments thereto, together with any administrative interpretations which have been adopted thereunder by the Committee pursuant to Section 3.3 of the Long-Term Incentive Plan. Unless otherwise indicated, defined terms herein shall have the meaning ascribed to them in the Long-Term Incentive Plan.
 
14.          
General Restrictions
.  This Award is subject to the requirement that, if at any time the Committee shall determine that (a) the listing, registration or qualification of the shares of Common Stock subject or related thereto upon any securities exchange or under any state or federal law; (b) the consent or approval of any government regulatory body; or (c) an agreement by the recipient of an Award with respect to the disposition of shares of Common Stock, is necessary or desirable (in connection with any requirement or interpretation of any federal or state securities law, rule or regulation) as a condition of, or in connection with, the granting of such Award or the issuance, purchase or delivery of shares of Common Stock thereunder, such Award may not be consummated in whole or in part unless such listing, registration, qualification, consent, approval or agreement shall have been effected or obtained free of any conditions not acceptable to the Committee.
 
15.          
Adjustments for Changes in Capitalization
.  The number of shares of Restricted Stock covered by this Award shall be subject to adjustment in accordance with Articles 12-14 of the Long-Term Incentive Plan.
 
16.          
No Right of Employment
.
Neither the granting of this Award nor any provision of the Long-Term Incentive Plan or this Award shall constitute or be evidence of any understanding, express or implied, on the part of the Company or any Subsidiary to employ the Participant for any specified period.
 
17.          
Amendment
.  This Award may be amended only by a writing executed by the Company and the Participant which specifically states that it is amending this Award.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, this Award may be amended solely by the Committee by a writing which specifically states that it is amending this Award, so long as a copy of such amendment is delivered to the Participant, and provided that no such amendment adversely affecting the rights of the Participant hereunder may be made without the Participant's written consent.  Without limiting the foregoing, the Committee reserves the right to change, by written notice to the Participant, the provisions of the Restricted Stock or this Award in any way it may deem necessary or advisable to carry out the purpose of the grant as a result of any change in applicable laws or regulations or any future law, regulation, ruling, or judicial decision, provided that any such change shall be applicable only to Restricted Stock which are then subject to restrictions as provided herein.
 
18.          
Incorporation of the Long-Term Incentive Plan
.
This Agreement is subject to the Long-Term Incentive Plan, a copy of which has been furnished to the Participant herewith and for which the Participant acknowledges receipt. The terms and provisions of the Long-Term Incentive Plan are incorporated by reference herein.  In the event of a conflict between any term or provision contained herein and a term or provision of the Long-Term Incentive Plan, the applicable terms and provisions of the Long-Term Incentive Plan shall govern and prevail.
19.          
Construction
.  The Restricted Stock is being issued pursuant to Section 6.4 of the Long-Term Incentive Plan and are subject to the terms of the Long-Term Incentive Plan.  A copy of the Long-Term Incentive Plan has been given to the Participant, and additional copies of the Long-Term Incentive Plan are available upon request during normal business hours at the principal executive offices of the Company.  To the extent that any provision of this Award violates or is inconsistent with an express provision of the Long-Term Incentive Plan, the Long-Term Incentive Plan provision shall govern and any inconsistent provision in this Award shall be of no force or effect.
 
20.          
Severability
.  If one or more of the provisions of this Award shall be held invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby and the invalid, illegal or unenforceable provisions shall be deemed null and void; however, to the extent permissible by law, any provisions which could be deemed null and void shall first be construed, interpreted or revised retroactively to permit this Award Agreement to be construed so as to foster the intent of this Award and the Long-Term Incentive Plan.
 
21.          
Language
.  If the Participant has received this Agreement or any other document related to the Long-Term Incentive Plan translated into a language other than English and if the translated version is different than the English version, the English version will control.
 
22.          
Governing Law
.  The Restricted Stock grant and the provisions of this Agreement are governed by, and subject to, the laws of the State of Delaware,as provided in the Long-Term Incentive Plan.
 

Exhibit 10.7
 
STOCK APPRECIATION RIGHTS AWARD under the Fossil, Inc. 2008 Long-Term Incentive Plan
 
This STOCK APPRECIATION RIGHTS AWARD (the "Award"), is entered into effect as of the date of the grant (the "Effective Date").
 
W I T N E S S E T H:
 
Fossil, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company") has adopted the Fossil, Inc. 2008 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the "Long-Term Incentive Plan") effective as of the Effective Date (as defined in the Long-Term Incentive Plan) with the objective of retaining key executives and other selected employees and of rewarding them for making major contributions to the success of the Company and its Subsidiaries; and
WHEREAS,
 
the Long-Term Incentive Plan provides that an employee of the Company or its Subsidiaries may be granted a Stock Appreciation Right Award, which may consist of the right to receive a payment, in cash or shares of common stock, par value $.01 per share ("Common Stock"), of the Company, equal to the excess of the Fair Market Value of a specified number of shares of Common Stock on the date the Stock Appreciation Right ("SAR") is exercised over a specified strike price as set forth in the Award;
WHEREAS,
 
the Participant identified in the Notice of Grant is hereby awarded Stock Appreciation Rights in accordance with the following terms:
NOW, THEREFORE,
 
1.              Subject to the terms and conditions set forth in the Long-Term Incentive Plan, this Award and in the Notice of Grant, the Company hereby grants to the Participant that number of SARs set forth in the Notice of Grant, consisting of the right to receive, upon exercise of each SAR, shares of Common Stock with a Fair Market Value equal to the excess of the Fair Market Value of each share of Common Stock on the date of exercise minus the Fair Market Value of each share of Common Stock on the date of this Award, subject to any adjustments that may be made pursuant to the terms of the Long-Term Incentive Plan (the "SAR Payment Value").
.
Grant of Award; Stock Appreciation Rights
 
2.               The SARs granted pursuant to this Award may be exercised by the Participant at any time prior to the Expiration Date set forth in the Notice of Grant (the "Exercise Period"), subject to the limitation that such SARs shall vest and become exercisable only if the Participant remains continuously employed by the Company or its Subsidiaries through each Vesting Date set forth in the Notice of Grant (it being understood that the right to exercise the SARs shall be cumulative, so that the Participant may exercise on or after any Vesting Date and during the remainder of the Exercise Period that number of SARs which the Participant was entitled to exercise but did not exercise during any preceding period or periods).  Notwithstanding the vesting conditions set forth herein, (i) the Committee may in its discretion at any time accelerate the vesting of SARs; and (ii) all of the SARs shall vest upon a Change in Control of the Company or upon the death of the Participant.
.
SAR Exercise Period and Vesting
 
3.               The Participant (or his representative, guardian, devisee or heir, as applicable) may exercise any portion of this SAR that has become exercisable in accordance with the terms hereof as to all or any of the SARs shares of Common Stock As promptly as practicable following the receipt of such written notification, the Company shall electronically register the number of shares of Common Stock having a Fair Market Value (as of the effective date of the
.
Method of Exercise
by giving written notice of exercise to the Company, in form satisfactory to the Board, specifying the number of SARs to be exercised.  The SAR Payment Value shall be paid to the Participant in
This SAR may not be exercised for less than one (1) SAR or the number of whole SARs remaining under this Award, whichever is smaller.
 
Participant's notice of exercise) equal to the SAR Payment Value with respect to those SARs which have been exercised.  No stock certificate or certificates shall be issued with respect to such shares of Common Stock, unless, the Participant requests delivery of the certificate or certificates by submitting a written request to the General Counsel requesting deliver of the certificates.  The Company shall deliver the certificates requested by the Participant to the Participant as soon as administratively practicable following the Company's receipt of such request. Upon registration (or issuance) of any shares hereunder,  the Participant may be required to enter into such written representations, warranties and agreements as the Company may reasonably request in order to comply with applicable securities laws, the Long-Term Incentive Plan or with this Notice of Grant.
 
4.              In the event that the Participant ceases to be employed by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries during the Exercise Period for any reason other than death, at a time which the SARs granted pursuant hereto are still in force and unexpired, the SARs granted pursuant to this Award shall terminate, except to the extent that they are vested on the date of termination of employment, and exercised on or prior to the date that is three (3) months following termination of employment (or, if earlier, on the expiration date of the SARs).
.
Termination in Event of Nonemployment
 
5.             In the event that the Participant ceases to be employed by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries during the Exercise Period by reason of death at a time when the SARs granted pursuant hereto are still in force and unexpired, any unvested SARs shall be accelerated and 100% vested.  Such acceleration shall be effective as of the date of death of the Participant.  The Participant's representatives, devises or heirs, as applicable, shall have a period of one (1) year following the date of death in which to exercise the SARs (or, if earlier, on the expiration date of the SARs).
 
Death
.
 
6.               The SARs granted pursuant hereto shall not be assignable or transferable by the Participant other than by will or the laws of descent and distribution or pursuant to a qualified domestic relations order as defined by Code or Title I of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended.  Any attempt to do so contrary to the provisions hereof shall be null and void.  No assignment of the SARs herein granted shall be effective to bind the Company unless the Company shall have been furnished with written notice thereof and a copy of such documents and evidence as the Company may deem necessary to establish the validity of the assignment and the acceptance by the assignee or assignees of the terms and conditions hereof.
.
Assignability
 
7.               The Participant shall have no rights as a stockholder of the Company with respect to the SARs unless and until certificates evidencing shares of Common Stock shall have been electronically registered in the Participant's name, or if applicable, issued by the Company to the Participant.  Until such time, the Participant shall not be entitled to dividends or distributions in respect of any shares or to vote such shares on any matter submitted to the stockholders of the Company.  In addition, except as to adjustments that may from time to time be made by the Committee in accordance with the Long-Term Incentive Plan, no adjustment shall be made or required to be made in respect of dividends (ordinary or extraordinary, whether in cash, securities or any other property) or distributions paid or made by the Company or any other rights granted in respect of any shares for which the record date for such payment, distribution or grant is prior to the date upon which certificates evidencing such shares shall have been electronically registered by the Company in the Participant's name, or, if applicable, issued by the Company.
.
No Stockholder Rights
 
8.             .  The Committee shall have the power to interpret the Long-Term Incentive Plan, the Notice of Grant and this Award, and to adopt such rules for the administration, interpretation, and application of the Long-Term Incentive Plan as are consistent therewith and to interpret or revoke any such rules.  All actions taken and all interpretations and determinations made by
Administration
the Committee shall be final and binding upon the Participant, the Company, and all other interested persons.  No member of the Committee shall be personally liable for any action, determination, or interpretation made in good faith with respect to the Long-Term Incentive Plan or this Award.
 
9.               The Participant shall be required to deposit with the Company an amount of cash equal to the amount determined by the Company to be required with respect to any withholding taxes, FICA contributions, or the like under any federal, state, or local statute, ordinance, rule, or regulation in connection with the issuance of shares of Common Stock for the SAR Payment Value.  Alternatively, the Company may, at its sole election, (i) withhold the required amounts from the Participant's pay during the pay periods next following the date on which any such applicable tax liability otherwise arises, or (ii) withhold a number of shares of Common Stock otherwise deliverable having a Fair Market Value sufficient to satisfy the statutory minimum of all or part of the Participant's estimated total federal, state, and local tax obligations associated with payment of the SAR Payment Value.  The Company shall not deliver any of the shares of Company Stock until and unless the Participant has made the deposit required herein or proper provision for required withholding has been made.
.
Tax Withholding Obligations
 
10.           Upon the acquisition of any shares of Common Stock pursuant to the exercise of the SARs granted pursuant hereto, the Participant may be required to enter into such written representations, warranties and agreements as the Company may reasonably request in order to comply with applicable securities laws, the Long-Term Incentive Plan or with this Award.  In addition, to the extent a certificate or certificates are issued representing any shares, the certificate or certificates will be stamped or otherwise imprinted with a legend in such form as the Company may require with respect to any applicable restrictions on sale or transfer, and the stock transfer records of the Company will reflect stop-transfer instructions, as appropriate, with respect to such shares.
.
Restrictions and Related Representations
 
11.             Unless otherwise provided herein, any notice or other communication hereunder shall be in writing and shall be given by registered or certified mail unless the Company, in its sole discretion, decides to deliver any documents relating to the Award or future awards that may be granted under the Long-Term Incentive Plan by electronic means or to request the Participant's consent to participate in the Long-Term Incentive Plan by electronic means.  The Participant hereby consents to receive such documents by electronic delivery and, if requested, to agree to participate in the Long-Term Incentive Plan through an on-line or electronic system established and maintained by the Company or another third party designated by the Company.  All notices of the exercise by the Participant of the SARs granted pursuant hereto shall be directed to Fossil, Inc., Attention: Secretary, at the Company's then current address unless the Company, in writing or electronically, directs the Participant otherwise.  Any notice given by the Company to the Participant directed to him at his address on file with the Company and shall be effective to bind any other person who shall acquire rights hereunder.  The Company shall be under no obligation whatsoever to advise or notify the Participant of the existence, maturity or termination of any rights hereunder and the Participant shall be deemed to have familiarized himself with all matters contained herein and in the Long-Term Incentive Plan which may affect any of the Participant's rights or privileges hereunder.
.
Notices and Electronic Delivery
 
12.             Whenever the term "Participant" is used herein under circumstances applicable to any other person or persons to whom this Award may be assigned in accordance with the provisions of Paragraph 6 (Assignability) of this Agreement, it shall be deemed to include such person or persons.  The term "Long-Term Incentive Plan" as used herein shall be deemed to include the Long-Term Incentive Plan and any subsequent amendments thereto, together with any administrative interpretations which have been adopted thereunder by the Committee pursuant to Section 3.3
Scope of Certain Terms
.
 
of the Long-Term Incentive Plan. Unless otherwise indicated, defined terms herein shall have the meaning ascribed to them in the Long-Term Incentive Plan.
 
13.           .  This Award is subject to the requirement that, if at any time the Committee shall determine that (a) the listing, registration or qualification of the shares of Common Stock subject or related thereto upon any securities exchange or under any state or federal law; (b) the consent or approval of any government regulatory body; or (c) an agreement by the recipient of an Award with respect to the disposition of shares of Common Stock, is necessary or desirable (in connection with any requirement or interpretation of any federal or state securities law, rule or regulation) as a condition of, or in connection with, the granting of such Award or the issuance, purchase or delivery of shares of Common Stock thereunder, such Award may not be consummated in whole or in part unless such listing, registration, qualification, consent, approval or agreement shall have been effected or obtained free of any conditions not acceptable to the Committee.
General Restrictions
 
14.           .  The number of SARs covered by this Award shall be subject to adjustment in accordance with Articles 12-14 of the Long-Term Incentive Plan.
Adjustments for Changes in Capitalization
 
15.           Neither the granting of this SAR, the exercise of any part hereof, nor any provision of the Long-Term Incentive Plan or this Award shall constitute or be evidence of any understanding, express or implied, on the part of the Company or any Subsidiary to employ the Participant for any specified period.
.
No Right of Employment
 
16.           .  This Award may be amended only by a writing executed by the Company and the Participant which specifically states that it is amending this Award.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, this Award may be amended solely by the Committee by a writing which specifically states that it is amending this Award, so long as a copy of such amendment is delivered to the Participant, and provided that no such amendment adversely affecting the rights of the Participant hereunder may be made without the Participant's written consent.  Without limiting the foregoing, the Committee reserves the right to change, by written notice to the Participant, the provisions of the SARs or this Award in any way it may deem necessary or advisable to carry out the purpose of the grant as a result of any change in applicable laws or regulations or any future law, regulation, ruling, or judicial decision, provided that any such change shall be applicable only to SARs which have not been exercised as provided herein.
Amendment
 
17.             Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, the Participant agrees that he will not exercise the SARs granted pursuant hereto, and that the Company will not be obligated to issue any shares pursuant to this Award, if the exercise of the SARs or the issuance of such shares would constitute a violation by the Participant or by the Company of any provision of any law or regulation of any governmental authority or any national securities exchange or transaction quotation system.
.
Precondition of Legality
 
18.           This Award grant and the provisions of this Agreement are governed by, and subject to, the laws of the State of Delaware, as provided in the Long-Term Incentive Plan.
. 
Governing Law
 
19.           This Award is subject to the Long-Term Incentive Plan, a copy of which has been furnished to the Participant and for which the Participant acknowledges receipt.  The terms and provisions of the Long-Term Incentive Plan are incorporated by reference herein.  In the event of a conflict between any term or provision contained here in and a term or provision of the Long-Term Incentive Plan, the applicable terms and provisions of the Long-Term Incentive Plan shall govern and prevail.
.
Incorporation of the Long-Term Incentive Plan
 
20.           If one or more of the provisions of this Award shall be held invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby and the invalid, illegal or unenforceable provisions shall be deemed null and void; however, to the extent permissible by law, any provisions which could be deemed null and void shall first be construed, interpreted or revised retroactively to permit this Award to be construed so as to first the intent of this Award and the Long-Term Incentive Plan.
. 
Severability
 
21.           .  The SAR is being issued pursuant to Section 6.5 of the Long-Term Incentive Plan and are subject to the terms of the Long-Term Incentive Plan.  A copy of the Long-Term Incentive Plan has been given to the Participant, and additional copies of the Long-Term Incentive Plan are available upon request during normal business hours at the principal executive offices of the Company.  To the extent that any provision of this Award violates or is inconsistent with an express provision of the Long-Term Incentive Plan, the Long-Term Incentive Plan provision shall govern and any inconsistent provision in this Award shall be of no force or effect.
Construction


