FILE:FOSL/FOSL-8K-20081203110228.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
FORM 8-K
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7.01.             
Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
will be presenting an overview of the Company's business model, growth strategies and financial highlights at the Nasdaq OMX 22 Annual Investor Program held at the Renaissance Chancery Court Hotel in London on Wednesday, December 3, 2008 and the J.P. Morgan Tenth SMid Cap Conference held at the J.P. Morgan Conference Center in New York on Friday, December 5, 2008.
President, Mike Barnes, and Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Mike Kovar,
On December 1, 2008, Fossil, Inc. (the "Company") announced that its
th
 
The Company issued a press release announcing these presentations on December 1, 2008.  A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is hereby incorporated by reference herein.  A copy of the presentation is attached as Exhibit 99.2 to this report.
 
The information in this Current Report and the accompanying exhibits is being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
 
Certain statements contained in the presentation slides that are not historical facts constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and involve a number of risks and uncertainties.  The actual results of the future events described in such forward-looking statements could differ materially from those stated in such forward-looking statements.  Among the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially are the effect of worldwide economic conditions; significant changes in consumer spending patterns or preferences; acts of war or acts of terrorism; changes in foreign currency valuations in relation to the U.S. dollar, principally the Euro, British Pound and Swiss Franc; lowered levels of consumer spending resulting from a general economic downturn or generally reduced shopping activity caused by public safety or consumer confidence concerns; the performance of our products within the prevailing retail environment; customer acceptance of both new designs and newly-introduced product lines; financial difficulties encountered by customers; the effects of vigorous competition in the markets in which we operate; the integration of the organizations and operations of any acquired businesses into our existing organization and operations; the termination or non-renewal of material licenses, foreign operations and manufacturing; changes in the costs of materials, labor and advertising; government regulation; our ability to secure and protect trademarks and other intellectual property rights; and the outcome of current and possible future litigation, as well as the risks and uncertainties set forth in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended January 5, 2008 and its Form 10-Q reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
Item 9.01.              Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
Exhibits
(d)
                                
 
Press Release dated December 1, 2008.
99.1
                          
 
Slide show presentation of Fossil, Inc. dated December 3, 2008.
99.2
                          
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
Richardson, TX. December 1, 2008  Fossil, Inc. (FOSL: NASDAQ) announced today that the Company will be presenting at the Nasdaq OMX 22 Annual Investor Program held at the Renaissance Chancery Court Hotel in London on Wednesday, December 3, 2008 at 2:30 p.m. Eastern Time.  In addition, the Company will present at the J.P. Morgan Tenth SMid Cap Conference being held at the J.P. Morgan Conference Center in New York on Friday, December 5, 2008 at 11:45 a.m. Eastern Time.  President, Mike Barnes and Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Mike Kovar will host the presentations providing an overview of the Company's business model, growth strategies and financial highlights.
th
 
About Fossil
 
Fossil is a global design, marketing and distribution company that specializes in consumer fashion accessories.  The Company's principal offerings include an extensive line of men's and women's fashion watches and jewelry sold under proprietary and licensed brands, handbags, small leather goods, belts, sunglasses, and apparel. In the watch and jewelry product category, the Company's offerings include a diverse portfolio of globally recognized proprietary and licensed brand names under which its products are marketed. The Company's extensive range of accessory products, brands, distribution channels and price points allows it to target style-conscious consumers across a wide age spectrum on a global basis.  The Company's products are sold to department stores, specialty retail stores, and specialty watch and jewelry stores in the U.S. and in over 90 countries worldwide through 23 company-owned foreign sales subsidiaries and a network of approximately 58 independent distributors.  The Company also distributes its products in over 280 company owned and operated retail stores and through the Company's e-commerce website at www.fossil.com, where certain product, press release and SEC filing information concerning the Company are also available.
 

Exhibit 99.2
 


