FILE:FOSL/FOSL-8K-20091123105843.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
______________
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01.                      Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
On November 18, 2009, Fossil Partners, L.P. (Borrower), a subsidiary of Fossil, Inc. (the Company), the Company and certain subsidiaries of the Company, as guarantors, executed an Eighth Amendment to Loan Agreement (the Eighth Amendment) with Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, a national banking association (Wells Fargo), which amends that certain Loan Agreement, dated September 23, 2004, as amended by that certain First Amendment to Loan Agreement effective as of September 22, 2005, that certain Second Amendment to Loan Agreement effective as of September 22, 2005, that certain Third Amendment to Loan Agreement, effective as of September 21, 2006, that certain Fourth Amendment to Loan Agreement, effective as of December 22, 2006, that certain Fifth Amendment to Loan Agreement, effective as of September 19, 2007, that certain Sixth Amendment to Loan Agreement, effective as of September 19, 2008 and that certain Seventh Amendment to Loan Agreement, effective as of November 19, 2008 (the Loan Agreement).  The Eighth Amendment (i) amends Section 1 of the Loan Agreement to extend the maturity date of the Revolver (as defined below) to November 17, 2010 and allow for a decrease of the total commitment from $140,000,000 to $100,000,000, with a possible increase  up to $200,000,000 upon the request of the Borrower and the consent of Wells Fargo, (ii) amends Section 1 of the Loan Agreement to require the Borrower to pay on a quarterly basis a certain percentage fee based on the amount of unused total commitment and (iii) amends the address of Wells Fargo contained in Section 16 of the Loan Agreement.  On the same date, the parties also executed a Sixth Amended and Restated Revolving Line of Credit Note (the Sixth Amended Note), which amends that certain Revolving Line of Credit Note dated September 23, 2004, as amended by that certain Amended and Restated Revolving Line of Credit Note, dated September 22, 2005, that certain Second Amended and Restated Revolving Line of Credit Note, dated September 21, 2006, that certain Third Amended and Restated Revolving Line of Credit Note, dated September 20, 2007, that certain Fourth Amended and Restated Revolving Line of Credit Note, dated September 19, 2008 and that certain Fifth Amended and Restated Revolving Line of Credit Note, dated November 19, 2008 (the Revolver), in order to increase the maximum amount payable to $200,000,000, amend the definition of Interest Payment Date, set the total commitment at $100,000,000 subject to a possible increase up to $200,000,000, adjust the formula for calculating the minimum interest rate and certain interest options, extend the maturity date of the Revolver to November 17, 2010 and amend the address of Wells Fargo for receipt of notice.
The foregoing descriptions of the Eighth Amendment and the Sixth Amended Note are qualified in their entirety by the full text of such documents, which are incorporated herein by reference and filed as exhibits hereto.
                      
 
Item 9.01.
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
The following exhibits are filed in accordance with the provisions of Item 601 of Regulation S-K:
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
Exhibit No                                                                Description
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
THIS EIGHTH AMENDMENT TO LOAN AGREEMENT (this ) is made and entered into and effective as of November 18, 2009 (the ), by and among , a national banking association (the ), (the ), (the ), (), (), (), (), () and () (the Company, Fossil Intermediate, Fossil Trust, Fossil I, Arrow Merchandising, Fossil Holdings and Fossil International are sometimes referred to herein individually as a  and collectively as the ).
Amendment
Amendment Closing Date
WELLS FARGO BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
Bank
FOSSIL PARTNERS, L.P.
Borrower
FOSSIL, INC.
Company
FOSSIL INTERMEDIATE, INC.
Fossil Intermediate
FOSSIL TRUST
Fossil Trust
FOSSIL STORES I, INC.
Fossil I
ARROW MERCHANDISING, INC.
Arrow Merchandising
FOSSIL HOLDINGS, LLC
Fossil Holdings
FOSSIL INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS, INC.
Fossil International
Guarantor
Guarantors
 
 
WHEREAS, the Bank, the Borrower and certain of the Guarantors are parties to that certain Loan Agreement dated as of September 23, 2004 (as amended, modified or supplemented from time to time, the ); and
Agreement
 
WHEREAS, the Bank, the Borrower and the Guarantors desire to amend the Agreement and the other Loan Documents as herein set forth to, among other things, (a) allow for a possible increase of the Total Commitment from $100,000,000 to up to $200,000,000 upon the request of the Borrower and the consent of the Bank (which consent may or may not be granted in the Bank's sole and absolute discretion) and (b) extend the maturity date of the loans under the Line of Credit and the Revolving Note (which evidences such loans) to November 17, 2010.
 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises herein contained and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties, intending to be legally bound, agree as follows:
 
 
 
Section 1.01.
 
Capitalized terms used in this Amendment are defined in the Agreement, as amended hereby, unless otherwise stated.
 
 
 
Section 2.01.
 
.  Effective as of the Amendment Closing Date, of the Agreement is hereby amended and restated to read in its entirety as follows:
Amendment to Section 1
Section 1
 
1.           .  Subject to and upon the terms, conditions, covenants and agreements contained herein (including the proviso below) and in the Revolving Note (as hereinafter defined), the Bank agrees to loan to the Borrower, at any time and from time to time prior to November 17, 2010 (the maturity of the Revolving Note), such amounts as the Borrower may request up to but not exceeding at any time the aggregate principal amount of $100,000,000 (as such amount may be increased from time to time pursuant to the proviso below, the ); within such limits and during such period, the Borrower may borrow, repay and re-borrow hereunder (the ); , , that, from time to time upon the written request of the Borrower to the Bank and upon the written consent of the Bank to such request (which consent may or may not be granted by the Bank in its sole and absolute discretion), the Total Commitment may be increased to an amount not to exceed $200,000,000; , , , that, in connection with any written request of the Borrower to the Bank to increase the Total Commitment in accordance with the immediately preceding proviso, the Bank's requested consent thereto shall be deemed to have been automatically denied unless the Bank shall have delivered to the Borrower a written consent to such increase within fifteen (15) Business Days after such written request is delivered to the Bank.  All loans under the Line of Credit shall be evidenced by a Revolving Line of Credit Note (as amended, modified or supplemented, increased, renewed, extended or replaced from time to time, the ) in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, executed by the Borrower and payable to the order of the Bank, and bearing interest upon the terms provided therein (but in no event to exceed the maximum non-usurious interest rate permitted by law).  The principal of, and interest on, the Revolving Note shall be due and payable as provided in the Revolving Note.  Notation by the Bank on its records shall constitute prima facie evidence of the amount and date of any payment or borrowing thereunder.
The Line of Credit
Total Commitment
Line of Credit
provided
however
provided
further
however
Revolving Note
(a)
 
.  All renewals, extensions, modifications and rearrangements of the Revolving Note, if any, shall be deemed to be made pursuant to this Agreement, and, accordingly, shall be subject to the terms and provisions hereof, and the Borrower and the Guarantors shall be deemed to have ratified, as of such renewal, extension, modification or rearrangement date, all of the representations, covenants and agreements herein set forth.
Renewals and Extensions
 
(b)
 
.  Advances under the Line of Credit may be utilized by the Borrower to fund drawings under any Documentary or Stand-by Letters of Credit (as hereinafter defined) that are issued by the Bank for the account of the Borrower.  In the event the Borrower fails to reimburse the Bank for any such drawings, the Bank may, in its own discretion, advance funds under the Line of Credit to fund such drawings and all such advances shall be added to the principal amount of the Revolving Note.
Letters of Credit
 
(c)
 
.  The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee equal to (i) the Unused Fee Percentage (as such term is hereinafter defined) per annum multiplied by (ii) the amount by which the Total Commitment exceeds the average daily balance of the sum of the outstanding principal amount of loans under the Line of Credit plus the aggregate undrawn amount of Documentary and Standby Letters of Credit during the applicable period (which amount is hereinafter called the "").  Such fee shall be payable in arrears, on the last day of each December, March, June and September and on the maturity of the Revolving Note, based upon such average daily balance of the Unused Total Commitment during the period then ended on such payment date.  For avoidance of doubt, such fee shall commence to accrue on November 18, 2009.  The term "Unused Fee Percentage" shall mean the percentage specified in the following table, based upon the Unused Total Commitment.
Unused Fee
Unused Total Commitment
 
Section 2.02.
 
.  Effective as of the Amendment Closing Date, the address of the Bank contained in of the Agreement is hereby amended to read as follows:
Amendment to Section 16
Section 16
 
Wells Fargo Bank, National Association
1445 Ross Avenue, 3 Floor
rd
MAC T5303-031
Dallas, Texas  75202
Attention:  Julia Harman, Vice President
Fax:  (214) 953-3982
 
 
Section 3.01.
 
.  The effectiveness of this Amendment is subject to the satisfaction of the following conditions precedent, unless specifically waived in writing by the Bank:
Conditions to Effectiveness
 
(a)
 
The Bank shall have received (i) this Amendment, duly executed by the Borrower and each Guarantor, and (ii) an amended and restated Revolving Note in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank which, among other things, extends the maturity date of the Revolving Note to November 17, 2010, duly executed by the Borrower;
 
(b)
 
The Bank shall  have received (i) certified copies of any amendments or modifications to the organizational documents of the Borrower, each Guarantor and each Significant Foreign Subsidiary that have been entered into between November 19, 2008 and the Amendment Closing Date, (ii) certificates dated as of a recent date issued by the applicable governmental authorities which evidence the existence and good standing of the Borrower and each Guarantor, and (iii) certified copies of resolutions of the board of directors or other applicable governing body of the Borrower and each Guarantor which authorize the execution and delivery of this Amendment and the other Loan Documents executed in connection herewith, in each case in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank;
 
(c)
 
[intentionally omitted];
 
(d)
 
There shall have been no material adverse change in the business or financial condition of the Borrower, the Company and the Guarantors, taken as a whole;
 
(e)
 
There shall be no material adverse litigation, either pending or threatened, against the Borrower or any Guarantor that could reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on the business or financial condition of the Borrower, the Company and the Guarantors, taken as a whole;
 
(f)
 
The representations and warranties contained herein and in the Agreement and the other Loan Documents, as each is amended hereby, shall be true and correct in all material respects as of the date hereof, as if made on the date hereof, except to the extent such representations were made as of a specific date;
 
(g)
 
No default or Event of Default under the Agreement, as amended hereby, shall have occurred and be continuing, unless such default or Event of Default has been specifically waived in writing by the Bank; and
 
(h)
 
All requisite corporate, partnership or trust proceedings, as appropriate, shall have been taken the Borrower and each Guarantor to authorize the execution, delivery and performance of this Amendment, and such proceedings and other legal matters incident thereto shall be satisfactory to the Bank and its legal counsel.
 
 
 
Section 4.01.
 
.  The terms and provisions set forth in this Amendment shall modify and supersede all inconsistent terms and provisions set forth in the Agreement and the other Loan Documents, and, except as expressly modified and superseded by this Amendment, the terms and provisions of the Agreement and the other Loan Documents are ratified and confirmed and shall continue in full force and effect.  The parties hereto agree that the Agreement and the other Loan Documents, as amended hereby, shall continue to be legal, valid, binding and enforceable in accordance with their respective terms.
General Ratifications
 
Section 4.02.
 
.  Each of the Guarantors hereby acknowledges and consents to all of the terms and conditions of this Amendment and hereby ratifies and confirms the Guaranty Agreement to which it is a party to or for the benefit of the Bank and all of its obligations thereunder.  Each of the Guarantors hereby represents and acknowledges that it has not revoked, terminated, limited or otherwise modified its obligations under the Guaranty Agreement executed by it in any way and that it has no claims, counterclaims, offsets, credits or defenses to the Guaranty Agreement executed by it or to the other Loan Documents to which it is a party or the performance of its obligations thereunder, all of which obligations are legal, valid and binding in accordance with their terms.  Furthermore, each Guarantor agrees that nothing contained in this Amendment shall adversely affect any right or remedy of the Bank under the Guaranty Agreement to which such Guarantor is a party.  Each Guarantor hereby agrees that, with respect to the Guaranty Agreement to which it is a party, all references in such Guaranty Agreement to the Guaranteed Obligations shall include, without limitation, the obligations of the Borrower to the Bank under the Agreement, as amended hereby, and all indebtedness evidenced by the Revolving Note dated as of November 18, 2009, in the maximum original principal amount of $200,000,000 made by the Borrower payable to the order of the  Bank.  Finally, each of the Guarantors hereby represents and acknowledges that the execution and delivery of this Amendment, the Revolving Note and the other Loan Documents executed in connection herewith shall in no way change or modify its obligations as a guarantor, debtor, pledgor, assignor, obligor and/or grantor under its respective Guaranty Agreement (except as specifically provided in this ) and shall not constitute a waiver by the Bank of any of the Banks rights or remedies against such Guarantor.
Ratification of Guaranties
Section 4.02
 
Section 4.03.
 
.  The Company hereby agrees that the Stock Pledge Agreement is hereby expressly amended such that the definition of Secured Obligations contained therein includes, without limitation, all indebtedness and other obligations of the Borrower now or hereafter existing hereunder the Agreement, as amended hereby, and all indebtedness evidenced by the Revolving Note dated as of November 18, 2009, in the maximum original principal amount of $200,000,000 made by the Borrower payable to the order of the Bank.  Furthermore, the Company hereby ratifies and reaffirms its grant of a security interest in all Collateral, as such term is defined in the Stock Pledge Agreement, as security for the payment and performance of all Secured Obligations, as such term is defined in the Stock Pledge Agreement, and all other obligations under the Stock Pledge Agreement, as the same is amended hereby, and represents and acknowledges that the Stock Pledge Agreement is not subject to any claims, counterclaims, defenses or offsets and that all of its obligations thereunder are legal, valid and binding in accordance with their terms.  Finally, the Company hereby represents and acknowledges that the execution and delivery of this Amendment, the Revolving Note and the other Loan Documents executed in connection herewith shall in no way change or modify its obligations as a debtor, pledgor, assignor, obligor and/or grantor under the Stock Pledge Agreement (except as specifically provided in this ) and shall not constitute a waiver by the Bank of any of the Banks rights or remedies against the Company.
Ratification of Security Interests
Section 4.03
 
Section 4.04.
 
.  The Borrower and each of the Guarantors hereby jointly and severally represent and warrant to the Bank that (a) the execution, delivery and performance of this Amendment and any and all other Loan Documents executed and/or delivered in connection herewith have been duly authorized by all requisite corporate, partnership or trust proceedings, as appropriate, and will not contravene, or constitute a default under, any provision of applicable law or regulation or of the Agreement of Limited Partnership, Articles of Incorporation, By-Laws, Trust Agreement or other organizational document, as applicable, of the Borrower or any Guarantor, or of any mortgage, indenture, material contract, material agreement or other material instrument, or any judgment, order or decree, binding upon the Borrower or any Guarantor; (b) the officer(s) or other representatives, as applicable, of the Borrower and each Guarantor executing and delivering this Amendment and any and all other Loan Documents executed and/or delivered in connection herewith are duly elected and are authorized, by resolution of the board of directors, board of managers or trustees (or other applicable governing body) of the Borrower and each such Guarantor, to execute on behalf of each such entity this Amendment and any and all other Loan Documents executed and/or delivered in connection herewith; (c) the representations and warranties contained in the Agreement and the other Loan Documents, as amended hereby, are true and correct in all material respects on and as of the date hereof and on and as of the date of execution hereof as though made on and as of each such date, except to the extent such representations were made as of a specific date; (d) no default or Event of Default under the Agreement, as amended hereby, or any other Loan Document has occurred and is continuing, unless such default or Event of Default has been specifically waived in writing by the Bank; and (e) the Borrower and the Guarantors are in full compliance with all covenants and agreements contained in the Agreement and the other Loan Documents, as amended hereby.
Representations and Warranties, etc
 
Section 4.05.
 
  The Borrower and each of the Guarantors hereby jointly and severally represent and warrant to the Bank that (a) attached hereto as is a list of all majority-owned subsidiaries of the Company or the Borrower as of the Amendment Closing Date, (b) attached hereto as is a list of all Significant Domestic Subsidiaries as of the Amendment Closing Date and after giving effect to this Amendment, (c) attached hereto as is a list of all Significant Foreign Subsidiaries as of the Amendment Closing Date and after giving effect to this Amendment, and (d) each of the Borrower and the Guarantors is in compliance with the requirements of of the Agreement as of the Amendment Closing Date and after giving effect to this Amendment.
Subsidiaries, etc.
Eighth Amendment Schedule 1
Eighth Amendment Schedule 2
Eighth Amendment Schedule 3
Section 12(m)
 
 
 
Section 5.01.
 
.  All representations and warranties made in the Agreement or any other Loan Documents, including, without limitation, any document furnished in connection with this Amendment, shall survive the execution and delivery of this Amendment and the other Loan Documents to be executed in connection herewith, and no investigation by the Bank or any closing shall affect the representations and warranties or the right of the Bank to rely upon them.
Survival of Representations and Warranties
 
Section 5.02.
 
.  Each of the Agreement and the other Loan Documents, and any and all other agreements, documents or instruments now or hereafter executed and delivered pursuant to the terms hereof or thereof or pursuant to the terms of the Agreement, as amended hereby, are hereby amended so that any reference in the Agreement and such other Loan Documents to the Agreement shall mean a reference to the Agreement as amended hereby.
Reference to Agreement
 
Section 5.03.
 
.  As provided in the Agreement, the Borrower agrees to pay on demand all reasonable costs and expenses incurred by the Bank in connection with the preparation, negotiation and execution of this Amendment and the other Loan Documents executed pursuant hereto and any and all amendments, modifications and supplements hereto or thereto, including, without limitation, the costs and fees of the Banks legal counsel and all costs and expenses incurred by the Bank in connection with the enforcement or preservation of any rights or remedies under the Agreement or any other Loan Document, in each case as amended hereby, including, without, limitation, the costs and fees of the Banks legal counsel.
Expenses of the Bank
 
Section 5.04.
 
.  Any provision of this Amendment held by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid or unenforceable shall not impair or invalidate the remainder of this Amendment and the effect thereof shall be confined to the provision so held to be invalid or unenforceable.
Severability
 
Section 5.05.
 
.  This Amendment is binding upon and shall inure to the benefit of the Borrower, the Guarantors and the Bank and their respective successors and assigns; , , that neither the Borrower nor any Guarantor may assign any of its obligations hereunder or under any Loan Document without the prior written consent of the Bank.
Successors and Assigns
provided
however
 
Section 5.06.
 
.  This Amendment may be executed in one or more counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original, but all of which when taken together shall constitute one and the same instrument.  A facsimile signature or a signature transmitted electronically shall be effective as an original signature.
Counterparts
 
Section 5.07.
 
.  No consent or waiver, express or implied, by the Bank to or for any breach of or deviation from any covenant, condition or duty by the Borrower or any Guarantor shall be deemed a consent to or waiver of any other breach of the same or any other covenant, condition or duty.
Effect of Waiver
 
Section 5.08.
 
.  The headings, captions and arrangements used in this Amendment are for convenience only and shall not affect the interpretation of this Amendment.
Headings
 
Section 5.09.
 
.  THIS AMENDMENT AND ALL OTHER AGREEMENTS EXECUTED PURSUANT HERETO SHALL BE DEEMED TO HAVE BEEN MADE AND TO BE PERFORMABLE IN, AND SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF TEXAS.
Applicable Law
 
Section 5.10.
 
.  THE AGREEMENT AND THE OTHER LOAN DOCUMENTS, EACH AS AMENDED HEREBY, REPRESENT THE ENTIRE EXPRESSION OF THE PARTIES WITH RESPECT TO THE SUBJECT MATTER HEREOF AND THEREOF ON THE DATE THIS AMENDMENT IS EXECUTED. THE AGREEMENT AND THE OTHER LOAN DOCUMENTS, AS AMENDED HEREBY, MAY NOT BE CONTRADICTED BY EVIDENCE OF PRIOR, CONTEMPORANEOUS OR SUBSEQUENT ORAL AGREEMENTS OF THE PARTIES. THERE ARE NO UNWRITTEN ORAL AGREEMENTS BETWEEN OR AMONG THE PARTIES. NO MODIFICATION, RESCISSION, WAIVER, RELEASE OR AMENDMENT OF ANY PROVISION OF THIS AMENDMENT SHALL BE MADE, EXCEPT BY A WRITTEN AGREEMENT SIGNED BY THE BORROWER, THE GUARANTORS AND THE BANK.
Final Agreement
 
Section 5.11.
 
.  The parties agree to be bound by the terms and provisions of the Banks current Arbitration Program, a true and correct copy of which is attached hereto as and incorporated herein by reference and is acknowledged as received by the parties pursuant to which any and all disputes shall be resolved by mandatory binding arbitration upon the request of any party.
Agreement for Binding Arbitration
Exhibit A
 
 
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Amendment has been executed and is effective as of the date first above-written.
 
BANK
 
WELLS FARGO BANK,
NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
By:                                                                           
/s/ Julia Harman
Name:           Julia Harman
Title:           Vice President
BORROWER
FOSSIL PARTNERS, L.P.
By:           Fossil, Inc.
Title:           General Partner
By:                                                                 
/s/ Mike L. Kovar
Name:           Mike L. Kovar
Title:           Executive Vice President, Chief
Financial Officer and Treasurer
GUARANTORS
FOSSIL, INC.
By:                                                                           
/s/ Mike L. Kovar
Name:           Mike L. Kovar
Title:           Executive Vice President, Chief
Financial Officer and Treasurer
FOSSIL INTERMEDIATE, INC.
By:                                                                           
/s/ Mike L. Kovar
Name:           Mike L. Kovar
Title:           Treasurer
 
 
 
FOSSIL TRUST
By:                                                                           
/s/ Mike L. Kovar
Name:           Mike L. Kovar
Title:           Treasurer
FOSSIL STORES I, INC.
By:                                                                           
/s/ Mike L. Kovar
Name:           Mike L. Kovar
Title:           Treasurer
ARROW MERCHANDISING, INC.
By:                                                                           
/s/ Mike L. Kovar
Name:           Mike L. Kovar
Title:           Treasurer
FOSSIL HOLDINGS, LLC
By:                                                                           
/s/ Mike L. Kovar
Name:           Mike L. Kovar
Title:           Manager
FOSSIL INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS, INC.
By:                                                                           
/s/ Mike W. Barnes
Name:           Michael W. Barnes
Title:           President
 
 
 
Fossil Intermediate, Inc.
Fossil Stores I, Inc.
Arrow Merchandising, Inc.
Fossil Holdings, LLC
Fossil Trust
Fossil International Holdings, Inc.
Fossil Europe B.V.
Fossil Holdings (Gibraltar) Ltd.
Swiss Technology Holding GmbH
Fossil Austria GmbH
Fossil Japan, K.K.
Fossil (Gibraltar) Ltd.
Fossil Canada, Inc.
Fossil Mexico, S.A. de C. V.
Servicios Fossil Mexico, S.A. de C.V.
Fossil (East) Limited
Fossil Holding LLC Luxembourg, SCS
Fossil Luxembourg, Sarl
Pulse Time Center Company, Ltd.
Fossil (Asia) Ltd
Fossil Singapore Ptd Ltd.
FDT, Ltd.
Fossil (Australia) Pty Ltd.
Fossil (New Zealand) Ltd.
Fossil Time Malaysia Sdn. Bhd.
Fossil Industries Ltd.
Fossil Trading (Shanghai) Company Ltd.
Fossil (Asia) Holding Ltd.
Fossil Europe GmbH
Fossil Italia, S.r.l.
Gum, S.A.
Fossil, S.L.
Fossil U.K. Holdings Ltd.
FESCO, GmbH
Fossil Swiss No Time GmbH
Fossil Swiss X Time GmbH
In Time - Portugal
Fossil U.K. Ltd.
Fossil Stores U.K. Ltd.
Montres Antima SA
Fossil Group Europe, GmbH
Fossil France SA
Logisav SARL
Trotime Espana SL
Fossil Retail Stores (Australia) Pty. Ltd
Fossil Management Services Pty. Ltd.
Fossil Scandinavia AB
Fossil Norway AS
Fossil Denmark AS
Fossil Stores France SAS
Fossil Stores S.r.l.
Fossil (Korea) Ltd.
Fossil (Macau) Limited
Fossil India Private Ltd.
Fossil Stores Spain, S.L.
Fossil Stores Belgium BVBA
Fossil Belgium BVBA
Fossil Stores Sweden AB
Fossil Stores Denmark A/S
MW (Asia), Ltd.
Trylink International, Ltd.
Fossil Newtime Ltd.
Fossil Asia Pacific, Ltd.
 
 
 
Fossil Intermediate, Inc.
Fossil Trust
Fossil Stores I, Inc.
 
 
 
Fossil Europe B.V.
Fossil Holdings (Gibraltar) Ltd.
Swiss Technology Holding GmbH
 
 
 
 
 
 
(a)             .  The parties hereto agree, upon demand by any party, to submit to binding arbitration all claims, disputes and controversies between or among them (and their respective employees, officers, directors, attorneys, and other agents), whether in tort, contract or otherwise in any way arising out of or relating to (i) any credit subject hereto, or any of the Loan Documents, and their negotiation, execution, collateralization, administration, repayment, modification, extension, substitution, formation, inducement, enforcement, default or termination; or (ii) requests for additional credit.
Arbitration
(b)             .  Any arbitration proceeding will (i) proceed in a location in Texas selected by the American Arbitration Association (AAA); (ii) be governed by the Federal Arbitration Act (Title 9 of the United States Code), notwithstanding any conflicting choice of law provision in any of the documents between the parties; and (iii) be conducted by the AAA, or such other administrator as the parties shall mutually agree upon, in accordance with the AAAs commercial dispute resolution procedures, unless the claim or counterclaim is at least $1,000,000.00 exclusive of claimed interest, arbitration fees and costs in which case the arbitration shall be conducted in accordance with the AAAs optional procedures for large, complex commercial disputes (the commercial dispute resolution procedures or the optional procedures for large, complex commercial disputes to be referred to herein, as applicable, as the Rules).  If there is any inconsistency between the terms hereof and the Rules, the terms and procedures set forth herein shall control.  Any party who fails or refuses to submit to arbitration following a demand by any other party shall bear all costs and expenses incurred by such other party in compelling arbitration of any dispute.  Nothing contained herein shall be deemed to be a waiver by any party that is a bank of the protections afforded to it under 12 U.S.C. 91 or any similar applicable state law.
Governing Rules
(c)             .  The arbitration requirement does not limit the right of any party to (i) foreclose against real or personal property collateral; (ii) exercise self-help remedies relating to collateral or proceeds of collateral such as setoff or repossession; or (iii) obtain provisional or ancillary remedies such as replevin, injunctive relief, attachment or the appointment of a receiver, before during or after the pendency of any arbitration proceeding.  This exclusion does not constitute a waiver of the right or obligation of any party to submit any dispute to arbitration or reference hereunder, including those arising from the exercise of the actions detailed in sections (i), (ii) and (iii) of this paragraph.
No Waiver of Provisional Remedies, Self-Help and Foreclosure
 
(d)             .  Any arbitration proceeding in which the amount in controversy is $5,000,000.00 or less will be decided by a single arbitrator selected according to the Rules, and who shall not render an award of greater than $5,000,000.00.  Any dispute in which the amount in controversy exceeds $5,000,000.00 shall be decided by majority vote of a panel of three arbitrators; provided however, that all three arbitrators must actively participate in all hearings and deliberations.  The arbitrator will be a neutral attorney licensed in the State of Texas with a minimum of ten years experience in the substantive law applicable to the subject matter of the dispute to be arbitrated.  The arbitrator will determine whether or not an issue is arbitratable and will give effect to the statutes of limitation in determining any claim.  In any arbitration proceeding the arbitrator will decide (by documents only or with a hearing at the arbitrator's discretion) any pre-hearing motions which are similar to motions to dismiss for failure to state a claim or motions for summary adjudication.  The arbitrator shall resolve all disputes in accordance with the substantive law of Texas and may grant any remedy or relief that a court of such state could order or grant within the scope hereof and such ancillary relief as is necessary to make effective any award.  The arbitrator shall also have the power to award recovery of all costs and fees, to impose sanctions and to take such other action as the arbitrator deems necessary to the same extent a judge could pursuant to the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, the Texas Rules of Civil Procedure or other applicable law.  Judgment upon the award rendered by the arbitrator may be entered in any court having jurisdiction.  The institution and maintenance of an action for judicial relief or pursuit of a provisional or ancillary remedy shall not constitute a waiver of the right of any party, including the plaintiff, to submit the controversy or claim to arbitration if any other party contests such action for judicial relief.
Arbitrator Qualifications and Powers
(e)             .  In any arbitration proceeding, discovery will be permitted in accordance with the Rules.  All discovery shall be expressly limited to matters directly relevant to the dispute being arbitrated and must be completed no later than 20 days before the hearing date.  Any requests for an extension of the discovery periods, or any discovery disputes, will be subject to final determination by the arbitrator upon a showing that the request for discovery is essential for the party's presentation and that no alternative means for obtaining information is available.
Discovery
(f)             .  No party hereto shall be entitled to join or consolidate disputes by or against others in any arbitration, except parties who have executed any Loan Document, or to include in any arbitration any dispute as a representative or member of a class, or to act in any arbitration in the interest of the general public or in a private attorney general capacity.
Class Proceedings and Consolidations
(g)               The arbitrator shall award all costs and expenses of the arbitration proceeding.
Payment Of Arbitration Costs And Fees
.
(h)             .  To the maximum extent practicable, the AAA, the arbitrators and the parties shall take all action required to conclude any arbitration proceeding within 180 days of the filing of the dispute with the AAA.  No arbitrator or other party to an arbitration proceeding may disclose the existence, content or results thereof, except for disclosures of information by a party required in the ordinary course of its business or by applicable law or regulation.  If more than one agreement for arbitration by or between the parties potentially applies to a dispute, the arbitration provision most directly related to the Loan Documents or the subject matter of the dispute shall control.  This arbitration provision shall survive termination, amendment or expiration of any of the Loan Documents or any relationship between the parties.
Miscellaneous
 
 
 

 
 
 
FOR VALUE RECEIVED, the undersigned (hereinafter called ) does hereby unconditionally promise to pay to the order of , a national banking association (), at its office at 1445 Ross Avenue, 3rd Floor, MAC T5303-031, Dallas, Texas 75202, the principal sum of ($200,000,000.00), or such lesser amount as has been loaned or advanced by Payee to Maker hereunder or under the Loan Agreement, in lawful money of the United States of America, together with interest from the date hereof until maturity at the rates per annum provided below.
Maker
Wells Fargo Bank, National Association
Payee
TWO
HUNDRED MILLION AND NO/100 DOLLARS
 
1.
 
.  For purposes of this Sixth Amended and Restated Revolving Line of Credit Note (this ), unless the context otherwise requires, the following terms shall have the definitions assigned to such terms as follows and capitalized terms used herein but not defined herein shall have the meanings therefor specified in the Loan Agreement:
Definitions
Note
 
 shall mean:
Business Day
 
(a)
 
for all purposes (other than as covered by clause (b) below) any day except Saturday, Sunday or a day which in the United States is a legal holiday or a day on which banking institutions are authorized or required by law or other government action to close; and
 
(b)
 
with respect to all notices and determinations in connection with, and payments of principal and interest on, a LIBOR Balance, any day which is a Business Day described in clause (a) above and which is also a day for trading by and between banks in the interbank eurodollar market.
 
 shall mean, with respect to Makers payment, or conversion to a different Interest Option, of all or any portion of the then-outstanding principal amount of any LIBOR Balance on a day other than the last day of the LIBOR Interest Period related thereto, any loss, cost or expense incurred by Payee in redepositing such principal amount, including the sum of (a) the interest which, but for such payment, Payee would have earned in respect of such principal amount so paid for the remainder of LIBOR Interest Period applicable to such principal amount, reduced, if Payee is able to redeposit such principal amount so paid for the balance of such LIBOR Interest Period, by the interest earned by Payee as a result of so redepositing such principal amount, plus (b) any expense or penalty incurred by Payee on redepositing such principal amount.
Consequential Loss
 
 shall mean a rate of interest based upon the LIBOR Base Rate or WFB Base Rate in effect at any time pursuant to an Interest Notice.
Contract Rate
 
 and the sign  shall mean lawful currency of the United States of America.
Dollars
$
 
 shall mean, with respect to each LIBOR Interest Period, the maximum reserve percentage (expressed as a decimal) in effect on the first day of any LIBOR Interest Period, as prescribed by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (or any successor), for determining reserve requirements applicable to eurocurrency liabilities pursuant to Regulation D or any other then applicable regulation of the Board of Governors (or any successor) which prescribes reserve requirements applicable to eurocurrency liabilities, as presently defined in Regulation D, or any eurocurrency funding.
Eurocurrency Reserve Percentage
 
 shall mean an Event of Default as such term is defined in the Loan Agreement.
Event of Default
 
 shall mean, on any date, the amount by which (a) the amount of all interest which would have accrued prior to such date on the principal of this Note (had the applicable Contract Rate at all times been in effect without limitation by the Maximum Rate) exceeds (b) the aggregate amount of interest actually received by Payee on this Note on or prior to such date.
Excess Interest Amount
 
 means, for any day, the weighted average of the rates on overnight Federal funds transactions with members of the Federal Reserve System arranged by Federal funds brokers, as published on the immediately following Business Day by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York or, if such rate is not published for any Business Day, the average of the quotations for the day of the requested advance received by Payee from three Federal funds brokers of recognized standing selected by Payee.
Federal Funds Effective Rate
 
 shall mean the written notice given by Maker to Payee of the Interest Options selected hereunder.  Each Interest Notice shall specify the Interest Option selected, the amount of the unpaid principal balance of this Note to bear interest at the rate selected and, if the LIBOR Base Rate is specified, the length of the applicable LIBOR Interest Period.
Interest Notice
 
 shall have the meaning assigned to such term in hereof.
Interest Option
paragraph 7
 
 shall mean (a) in the case of any WFB Base Rate Balance, the last day of each December, March, June and September prior to November 17, 2010 (the maturity date of this Note) and the maturity date of this Note, and (b) in the case of any LIBOR Balance, the last day of the corresponding LIBOR Interest Period with respect to such LIBOR Balance and November 17, 2010 (the maturity date of this Note).
Interest Payment Date
 
 shall mean any principal balance of this Note which, pursuant to an Interest Notice, bears interest at a rate based upon the LIBOR Base Rate for the LIBOR Interest Period specified in such Interest Notice.
LIBOR Balance
 
 shall mean, with respect to each LIBOR Interest Period, on any day thereof the quotient of (a) the LIBOR Rate with respect to such LIBOR Interest Period, divided by (b) the remainder of 1.0 minus the Eurocurrency Reserve Percentage in effect on such day.
LIBOR Base Rate
 
 shall mean, with respect to any LIBOR Balance, a period commencing: (a) on any date upon which, pursuant to an Interest Notice, the principal amount of such LIBOR Balance begins to accrue interest at the LIBOR Base Rate, or (b) on the last day of the immediately preceding LIBOR Interest Period in the case of a rollover to a successive LIBOR Interest Period, and ending one month, two months or three months thereafter as Maker shall elect in accordance with the provisions hereof; provided, that: (i) any LIBOR Interest Period which would otherwise end on a day which is not a Business Day shall be extended to the next succeeding Business Day unless such Business Day falls in another calendar month, in which case such LIBOR Interest Period shall end on the next preceding Business Day; and (ii) any LIBOR Interest Period which begins on the last Business Day of a calendar month (or on a day for which there is no numerically corresponding day in the calendar month at the end of such LIBOR Interest Period) shall, subject to clauses (iii) below and (i) above, end on the last Business Day of a calendar month; and (iii) any LIBOR Interest Period which would otherwise end after November 17, 2010 shall end on November 17, 2010.
LIBOR Interest Period
 
 shall mean, with respect to each LIBOR Interest Period, the rate of interest determined by Payee to be the arithmetic average (rounded upward, if necessary to the nearest 1/16th of 1%) of the per annum rates of interest at which Dollar deposits with a maturity equal to the proposed LIBOR Interest Period (and in an amount approximating the LIBOR Balance) would be offered to Payee by major banks in the interbank eurodollar market at approximately 8:00 a.m. (Dallas, Texas time) on the Business Day immediately preceding the first day of such LIBOR Interest Period.
LIBOR Rate
 
 shall mean that certain Loan Agreement, dated as of September 23, 2004, by and among Maker, Payee and the subsidiaries and/or affiliates of Maker from time to time a party thereto, as guarantors, as amended, restated, supplemented and/or modified from time to time.
Loan Agreement
 
, as used herein, shall mean, with respect to the holder hereof, the maximum non-usurious interest rate, if any, that at any time, or from time to time, may be contracted for, taken, reserved, charged, or received on the indebtedness evidenced by this Note under the laws which are presently in effect of the United States and the State of Texas applicable to such holder and such indebtedness or, to the extent permitted by law, under such applicable laws of the United States and the State of Texas which may hereafter be in effect and which allow a higher maximum non-usurious interest rate than applicable laws now allow.  To the extent that any of the optional interest rate ceilings provided in Chapter 303 of the Texas Finance Code, as amended from time to time (as amended, the ), may be available for application to any loan(s) or extension(s) of credit under this Note for the purpose of determining the Maximum Rate hereunder pursuant to the Texas Finance Code, the applicable monthly ceiling (as such term is defined in Chapter 303 of the Texas Finance Code) from time to time in effect shall be used to the extent that it is so available, and if such monthly ceiling at any time is not so available then the applicable weekly ceiling (as such term is defined in Chapter 303 of the Texas Finance Code) from time to time in effect shall be used to the extent that it is so available.
Maximum Rate
Texas Finance Code
 
 shall mean Regulation D of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System from time to time in effect and shall include any successor or other regulation relating to reserve requirements applicable to member banks of the Federal Reserve System.
Regulation D
 
 shall mean $100,000,000.00; , , that, with the prior written consent of Payee (which consent may or may not be granted in Payee's sole and absolute discretion), the Total Commitment may be increased to an amount not to exceed $200,000,000.00 as provided in the Loan Agreement.  As of November 18, 2009, the Total Commitment is $100,000,000.00.
Total Commitment
provided
however
 
 shall mean Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, a national banking association, and its successors and assigns.
WFB
 
 shall mean, on any date of determination, a variable rate of interest per annum equal to the higher of either (a) the WFB Prime Rate, or (b) the Federal Funds Effective Rate plus one-half of one percent (0.50%).
WFB Base Rate
 
 shall mean that portion of the principal balance of this Note bearing interest at a rate based upon the WFB Base Rate.
WFB Base Rate Balance
 
 shall mean the rate of interest most recently announced within Payee at its principal office in San Francisco as its prime rate and is a base rate for calculating interest on certain loans.  The rate announced by Payee as its prime rate may or may not be the most favorable rate charged by Payee to its customers. Each change in the WFB Prime Rate shall become effective without prior notice to Maker automatically as of the opening of business on the date such change is announced within Payee.
WFB Prime Rate
 
2.
 
.  A request for an advance under this Note shall be made, or shall be deemed to be made, if Maker gives Payee notice of its intention to borrow, in which notice Maker shall specify (a) the aggregate principal amount of such advance and (b) the requested date of such advance, which shall be a Business Day.  Any such request for an advance shall be accompanied by an Interest Notice and shall be made (i) no later than 11:00 a.m. Dallas, Texas time at least three (3) Business Days prior to the requested advance date if the principal balance of such advance, pursuant to such Interest Notice, is to bear interest at a rate based upon the LIBOR Base Rate and (ii) no later than 11:00 a.m. Dallas, Texas time on the requested advance date if the principal balance of such advance, pursuant to such Interest Notice, is to bear interest at a rate based upon the WFB Base Rate.  Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, Payee shall have the right (but not the obligation) to permit or effectuate advances under this Note as a part of its cash management services provided to Maker and Payee shall have the right to refuse to accept a request for an advance under this Note if at the date any such request is made or any such advance is to be made there exists a default or an Event of Default under this Note or the Loan Agreement.  As an accommodation to Maker, Payee may permit telephonic requests for loans and electronic transmittal of instructions, authorizations, agreements or reports to Payee by Maker.  Unless Maker specifically directs Payee in writing not to accept or act upon telephonic or electronic communications from Maker, Payee shall have no liability to Maker for any loss or damage suffered by Maker as a result of Payees honoring of any requests, execution of any instructions, authorizations or agreements or reliance on any reports communicated to Payee telephonically or electronically and purporting to have been sent to Payee by any individual from time to time designated by Maker as an authorized officer and Payee shall have no duty to verify the origin or authenticity of any such communication.
Manner of Borrowing; Advance Requests
 
3.
 
.  Interest on the unpaid principal balance of this Note shall be due and payable on each Interest Payment Date as it accrues.  The unpaid principal balance of this Note shall be due and payable in full on November 17, 2010.
Payments of Interest and Principal
 
4.
 
.  The unpaid principal of the WFB Base Rate Balance shall bear interest at a rate per annum which shall from day to day be equal to the lesser of (a) the higher of either (i) the WFB Base Rate in effect from day to day, one and one-half of one percent (1.50%) or (ii) three percent (3.0%), or (b) the Maximum Rate.  The unpaid principal of each LIBOR Balance shall bear interest at a rate per annum which shall from day to day be equal to the lesser of (A) the LIBOR Base Rate for the LIBOR Interest Period in effect with respect to such LIBOR Balance three-quarters of one percent (0.75%), or (B) the Maximum Rate.  Each determination by Payee of the LIBOR Base Rate shall, in the absence of manifest error, be conclusive and binding.  Interest on this Note with respect to each WFB Base Rate Balance and each LIBOR Balance shall be calculated on the basis of the actual days elapsed in a year consisting of 360 days.
Rates of Interest
plus
plus
 
5.
 
.  If, on each Interest Payment Date or any other date on which interest payments are required hereunder, Payee does not receive interest on this Note computed at the Contract Rate because such Contract Rate exceeds or has exceeded the Maximum Rate, then Maker shall, upon the written demand of Payee, pay to Payee in addition to the interest otherwise required to be paid hereunder, on each Interest Payment Date thereafter, the Excess Interest Amount (calculated as of such later Interest Payment Date); provided that in no event shall Maker be required to pay interest at a rate exceeding the Maximum Rate effective during such period.
Interest Recapture
 
6.
 
.  From and after the occurrence and during the continuance of an Event of Default, this Note shall bear interest at any rate equal to or less than the Maximum Rate, as chosen by Payee, at its discretion.  All past due principal and, to the extent permitted by applicable law, interest upon this Note shall bear interest at any rate equal to or less than the Maximum Rate, as chosen by Payee, at its discretion.
Default Rate of Interest
 
7.
 
.  Subject to the provisions hereof (including clause (c) below), Maker shall have the option (an ) to designate portions of the unpaid principal balance hereof to bear interest at a rate based upon the LIBOR Base Rate or WFB Base Rate as provided in hereof; , , that (a) except in the case of any advance under this Note made by Payee to repay any negative cash balance of Maker relating to cash management services provided by Payee, in the case of selection of the WFB Base Rate, such advance shall not be less than $100,000 (or, if greater than $100,000, in integral multiples of $100,000 in excess thereof), (b) in the case of the selection of the LIBOR Base Rate, the LIBOR Balance for a particular LIBOR Interest Period shall not be less than $250,000 (or, if greater than $250,000, in integral multiples of $100,000 in excess thereof), and (c) notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, Maker shall not have the option to designate portions of the unpaid principal balance hereof to bear interest at a rate based upon the WFB Base Rate unless circumstances are such that designating such principal balance to bear interest at a rate based upon the LIBOR Base Rate is not feasible or practical for any of the reasons specified in , or hereof; , , that no more than five (5) LIBOR Balances shall be outstanding at any one time under this Note; , , that the sum of the aggregate amount of all LIBOR Balances and WFB Base Rate Balances outstanding under this Note shall at no time exceed the Total Commitment.  Subject to the foregoing, the option (or obligation, as applicable, if so required by clause (c) of this above) of Maker to designate portions of the principal of this Note to bear interest at a rate based upon the LIBOR Base Rate or WFB Base Rate shall be exercised in the manner provided below:
Interest Option
Interest Option
paragraph 4
provided
however
paragraph 8(a)
8(b)
8(c)
provided
further
however
provided
further
however
paragraph 7
 
(i)
 
.  Maker shall request advances under this Note in accordance with, and in the manner prescribed by, hereof.  In connection with any such advance request, Maker shall give Payee an Interest Notice indicating the Interest Option selected with respect to the principal amount of the proposed borrowing.
At Time of Borrowing
paragraph 2
 
(ii)
 
.  At least three (3) Business Days prior to the termination of any LIBOR Interest Period, Maker shall give Payee an Interest Notice indicating the Interest Option to be applicable to the corresponding LIBOR Balance, as appropriate, upon the expiration of such LIBOR Interest Period.  If the required Interest Notice shall not have been timely received by Payee prior to the expiration of the then relevant LIBOR Interest Period, Maker shall be deemed (A) to have selected a rate based upon the LIBOR Base Rate, with a LIBOR Interest Period which is the same as the then relevant LIBOR Interest Period, to be applicable to such LIBOR Balance or, if but only if Maker is then permitted to select a rate based upon the WFB Base Rate in accordance with of this 7 above, to have selected a rate based upon the WFB Base Rate to be applicable to such LIBOR Balance, and, in each case, such LIBOR Balance shall thereafter continue to be a LIBOR Balance or shall thereafter be a WFB Base Rate Balance (as applicable) upon the expiration of such LIBOR Interest Period, and (B) to have given Payee notice of such selections.
At Expiration of LIBOR Interest
clause (c)
paragraph
 
(iii)
 
.  During any period in which any portion of the principal hereof bears interest at a rate based upon the WFB Base Rate, Maker shall have the right (or obligation, as applicable, if so required by clause (c) of this above), on any Business Day (the ), to convert all or a portion of such principal amount from the WFB Base Rate Balance to a LIBOR Balance by giving Payee an Interest Notice of such selection at least three (3) Business Days prior to such Conversion Date for any LIBOR Balance.
Conversion From WFB Base Rate
paragraph 7
Conversion Date
 
8.
 
.
Special Provisions For LIBOR Pricing
 
(a)
 
.  If Payee reasonably determines that, by reason of circumstances affecting the interbank market generally, deposits in Dollars (in the applicable amounts) are not being offered to Payee in the interbank market for any LIBOR Interest Period, or that the rate at which such Dollar deposits are being offered will not adequately and fairly reflect the cost to Payee of making or maintaining a LIBOR Balance for such LIBOR Interest Period, Payee shall forthwith give notice thereof to Maker, whereupon until Payee notifies Maker that the circumstances giving rise to such suspension no longer exist, (i) the right of Maker to select an Interest Option based upon the LIBOR Base Rate shall be suspended, and (ii) Maker shall convert each LIBOR Balance into the WFB Base Rate Balance in accordance with the provisions hereof on the last day of the then-current LIBOR Interest Period applicable to such LIBOR Balance.
Inadequacy of LIBOR Pricing
 
(b)
 
.  If, after the date hereof, the adoption of any applicable law, rule or regulation, or any change therein, or any change in the interpretation or administration thereof by any governmental authority, central bank or comparable agency charged with the interpretation or administration thereof, or compliance by Payee with any request or directive (whether or not having the force of law) of any such authority, central bank or comparable agency shall make it unlawful or impossible for Payee to make or maintain a LIBOR Balance, Payee shall so notify Maker.  Upon receipt of such notice, Maker shall convert such LIBOR Balance into the WFB Base Rate Balance, on either (i) the last day of the then-current LIBOR Interest Period applicable to such LIBOR Balance if Payee may lawfully continue to maintain and fund such LIBOR Balance to such day, or (ii) immediately, if Payee may not lawfully continue to maintain such LIBOR Balance to such day.
Illegality
 
(c)
 
.
Increased Costs for LIBOR Balances
 
(i)
 
If, after the date hereof, the adoption of any applicable law, rule or regulation, or any change therein, or any change in the interpretation or administration thereof by any governmental authority, central bank or comparable agency charged with the interpretation or administration thereof, or compliance by Payee with any request or directive (whether or not having the force of law) of any such authority, central bank or comparable agency shall subject Payee to any tax (including without limitation any United States interest equalization or similar tax, however named), duty or other charge with respect to the LIBOR Balances, this Note or Payees obligation to compute interest on the principal balance of this Note at a rate based upon the LIBOR Base Rate, or shall change the basis of taxation of payments to Payee of the principal of or interest on the LIBOR Balances or any other amounts due under this Note in respect of the LIBOR Balances or Payees obligation to compute the interest on the balance of this Note at a rate based upon the LIBOR Base Rate (except for changes in the rate on the tax on the overall net income of Payee imposed by the jurisdiction in which Payees principal executive office is located); or
 
(ii)
 
if, after the date hereof, any governmental authority, central bank or other comparable authority shall at any time impose, modify or deem applicable any reserve (including, without limitation, any imposed by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System but excluding any reserve requirement included in the Eurocurrency Reserve Percentage of Payee), special deposit or similar requirement against assets of, deposits with or for the account of, or credit extended by, Payee, or shall impose on Payee (or its eurocurrency lending office) or the interbank market any other condition affecting a LIBOR Balance, this Note or Payees obligation to compute the interest on the balance of this Note at a rate based upon the LIBOR Base Rate; and the result of any of the foregoing is to increase the cost to Payee of maintaining a LIBOR Balance, or to reduce the amount of any sum received or receivable by Payee under this Note by an amount deemed by Payee to be material, then, upon demand by Payee, Maker shall pay to Payee such additional amount or amounts as will compensate Payee for such increased cost or reduction, the amount of which, when aggregated with interest to be paid under the LIBOR Balance, does not exceed the interest which would have been payable had the balance been calculated using the WFB Base Rate. Payee will promptly notify Maker of any event of which it has knowledge, occurring after the date hereof, which will entitle Payee to compensation pursuant to this paragraph.  A certificate of Payee claiming compensation under this paragraph and setting forth in reasonable detail the additional amount or amounts to be paid to Payee hereunder shall be conclusive in the absence of manifest error.
 
(d)
 
.  If notice has been given requiring a LIBOR Balance to be repaid or converted to the WFB Base Rate Balance, then unless and until Payee notifies Maker that the circumstances giving rise to such repayment no longer apply, the Interest Option shall be a rate based upon the WFB Base Rate.  If Payee notifies Maker that the circumstances giving rise to such repayment or conversion no longer apply, Maker may thereafter select a rate based upon the LIBOR Base Rate in accordance with the terms of this Note.
Effect on Balances
 
9.
 
.  Subject to the terms of the definitions of LIBOR Interest Period, should the principal of, or any interest on, this Note become due and payable on any day other than a Business Day, the maturity thereof shall be extended to the next succeeding Business Day, and interest shall be payable with respect to such extension.  All payments of principal of, and interest on, this Note shall be made by Maker to Payee at Payees principal banking office in Dallas, Texas in federal or other immediately available funds.  Payments made to Payee by Maker hereunder shall be applied first to accrued interest and then to principal.
Extension, Place and Application of Payments
 
10.
 
.  Maker may repay any WFB Base Rate Balance at any time without premium or penalty and without prior notice. Maker may prepay any LIBOR Balance prior to the expiration of the applicable LIBOR Interest Period upon three (3) Business Days prior written notice subject to Makers payment of the Consequential Loss incurred by Payee as a result of the timing of such prepayment; provided, however, that Maker shall not have the option to designate any portion of the unpaid principal balance hereof to bear interest at a rate based upon the LIBOR Base Rate for a period of ninety (90) days following any such prepayment of any LIBOR Balance.  Any repayment or permitted prepayment of principal made hereunder shall not be less than $100,000 (or, if greater than $100,000, in integral multiples of $100,000) or such lesser amount as is then outstanding under this Note.  Any repayment or permitted prepayment of principal made hereunder shall be made together with interest accrued through the date of such repayment or prepayment, as applicable.
Repayments of WFB Base Rate Balances; Prepayments of LIBOR Balances; Consequential Loss
 
11.
 
.  Payee will use its best efforts to supply the Maker advance notice of the interest and/or principal amounts that the Payee has calculated are due at the scheduled payment dates at least one day in advance, assuming the unpaid principal balance and interest rate remain the same until such scheduled payment date.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, no failure by the Payee to give such notice will reduce the obligation of the Maker to pay such amounts on the date they become due.
Advance Notice
 
12.
 
.  All notices required or permitted hereunder shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been given or made as follows:  (a) if sent by hand delivery, upon delivery; (b) if sent by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, upon receipt (as indicated on the return receipt); and (c) if sent by facsimile, upon receipt (which shall be confirmed by a confirmation report from the senders facsimile machine), addressed to Maker or Payee at the following respective addresses or such other address as such party may from time to time designate by written notice to the other:
Notices
 
Payee:                    Wells Fargo Bank, National Association
1445 Ross Avenue, 3rd Floor
   
MAC T5303-031
Dallas, Texas  75202
Attention:   Julia Harman, Vice President
Fax:  (214) 953-3982
Maker:                    Fossil Partners, L.P.
2323 North Central Expressway
Richardson, Texas  75082
Attention:  Mike L. Kovar
Fax:  (972) 498-9448
13.
 
.  If this Note is placed in the hands of any attorney for collection, or if it is collected through any legal proceeding at law or in equity or in bankruptcy, receivership or other court proceedings, Maker agrees to pay all costs of collection including, but not limited to, court costs and reasonable attorneys fees.
Legal Fees
 
14.
 
.  Maker and each surety, endorser, guarantor and other party ever liable for payment of any sums of money payable on this Note, jointly and severally waive presentment and demand for payment, protest, notice of protest, intention to accelerate, acceleration and nonpayment, or other notice of default, and agree that their liability under this Note shall not be affected by any renewal or extension in the time of payment hereof, or in any indulgences, or by any release or change in any security for the payment of this Note, and hereby consent to any and all renewals, extensions, indulgences, releases or changes, regardless of the number of such renewals, extensions, indulgences, releases or changes.
Waivers
 
No waiver by Payee of any of its rights or remedies hereunder or under any other document evidencing or securing this Note or otherwise shall be considered a waiver of any other subsequent right or remedy of Payee; no delay or omission in the exercise or enforcement by Payee of any rights or remedies shall ever be construed as a waiver of any right or remedy of Payee; and no exercise or enforcement of any such rights or remedies shall ever be held to exhaust any right or remedy of Payee.
 
15.
 
.  If Maker fails or refuses to pay any part of the principal of or interest upon this Note as the same become due, or upon the occurrence and during the continuance of any Event of Default, then in any such event the holder hereof may, at its option, declare the entire unpaid balance of principal and accrued interest on this Note to be immediately due and payable, and foreclose all liens and security interests securing payment hereof or any part hereof.
Acceleration
 
16.
 
.  Any provision herein, or in any document securing this Note, or any other document executed or delivered in connection herewith, or in any other agreement or commitment, whether written or oral, expressed or implied, to the contrary notwithstanding, neither Payee nor any holder hereof shall in any event be entitled to contract for, charge, receive or collect, nor shall or may amounts received hereunder be credited, so that Payee or any holder hereof shall be paid, as interest, a sum greater than the maximum amount permitted by applicable law to be charged to the person, partnership, firm or corporation primarily obligated to pay this Note at the time in question.  If any construction of this Note or any document securing this Note, or any and all other papers, agreements or commitments, indicate a different right given to Payee or any holder hereof to contract for, charge, receive or collect any larger sum as interest, such is a mistake in calculation or wording which this clause shall override and control, it being the intention of the parties that this Note, and all other instruments securing the payment of this Note or executed or delivered in connection herewith, shall in all things comply with applicable law and proper adjustments shall automatically be made accordingly.  In the event that Payee or any holder hereof ever contracts for, charges, receives, collects or applies, as interest, any sum in excess of the Maximum Rate, if any, such excess amount shall be applied to the reduction of the unpaid principal balance of this Note, and, if this Note is paid in full, any remaining excess shall be paid to Maker.  In determining whether or not the interest paid or payable, under any specific contingency, exceeds the Maximum Rate, if any, Maker and Payee or any holder hereof shall, to the maximum extent permitted under applicable law:  (a) characterize any non-principal payment as an expense or fee rather than as interest, (b) exclude voluntary prepayments and the effects thereof, and (c) spread the total amount of interest throughout the entire term of this Note; provided that if this Note is paid and performed in full prior to the end of the full contemplated term hereof, and if the interest received for the actual period of existence thereof exceeds the Maximum Rate, if any, Payee or any holder hereof shall refund to Maker the amount of such excess, or credit the amount of such excess against the aggregate unpaid principal balance of all advances made by the Payee or any holder hereof under this Note at the time in question.
Interest Laws; Spreading
 
17.
 
.  This Note is being executed and delivered, and is intended to be performed, in the State of Texas.  Except to the extent that the laws of the United States may apply to the terms hereof, the substantive laws of the State of Texas shall govern the validity, construction, enforcement and interpretation of this Note.  In the event of a dispute involving this Note or any other instruments executed in connection herewith, the undersigned irrevocably agrees that venue for such dispute shall lie in any court of competent jurisdiction in Dallas County, Texas to the extent such dispute is not resolved by binding arbitration pursuant to the Payees current Arbitration Program described in hereof.
Choice of Law
paragraph 19
 
18.
 
.  This Note is executed in connection with the Loan Agreement and the holder hereof is entitled to all the benefits provided therein and in the other agreements, documents, instruments and certificates entered into in connection with the Loan Agreement.
Loan Agreement
 
19.
 
.  The parties agree to be bound by the terms and provisions of the Payees current Arbitration Program which is incorporated by reference herein and is acknowledged as received by the parties pursuant to which any and all disputes shall be resolved by mandatory binding arbitration upon the request of any party.
AGREEMENT FOR BINDING ARBITRATION
 
20.
 
.  This Note increases, amends, modifies and restates, but does not extinguish the indebtedness evidenced by, that certain (a) Fifth Amended and Restated Revolving Line of Credit Note dated November 19, 2008, in the stated principal amount of $140,000,000, executed by Maker and payable to the order of Payee, (b) Fourth Amended and Restated Revolving Line of Credit Note dated September 19, 2008, in the stated principal amount of $100,000,000, executed by Maker and payable to the order of Payee, (c) Third Amended and Restated Revolving Line of Credit Note dated September 20, 2007, in the stated principal amount of $100,000,000, executed by Maker and payable to the order of Payee, (d) Second Amended and Restated Revolving Line of Credit Note dated September 21, 2006, in the stated principal amount of $100,000,000, executed by Maker and payable to the order of Payee, (e)  Amended and Restated Revolving Line of Credit Note dated September 22, 2005, in the stated principal amount of $100,000,000, executed by Maker and payable to the order of Payee, and (f) Revolving Line of Credit Note dated September 23, 2004, in the stated principal amount of $50,000,000, executed by Maker and payable to the order of Payee.
Amendment and Restatement
 
 
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Maker has caused this Note to be duly executed and delivered in Dallas, Texas, as of the date first above written.
 
FOSSIL PARTNERS, L.P.
By:           Fossil, Inc.
Title:           General Partner
By:                                                                 
/s/ Mike L. Kovar
Name:           Mike L. Kovar
Title:           Executive Vice President, Chief
Financial Officer and Treasurer
 
 
 


