FILE:FOSL/FOSL-8K-20100525135838.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
At the annual meeting of stockholders (the "Annual Meeting") of Fossil, Inc. (the "Company") held on May 19, 2010, the stockholders approved the Fossil, Inc. 2010 Cash Incentive Plan (the "Incentive Plan"). The Incentive Plan was adopted by the Company's Board of Directors (the "Board") on March 24, 2010, subject to stockholder approval.
The Incentive Plan provides for awards of cash incentive compensation that are payable upon satisfaction of specified performance goals over a specified performance period. The Company's Compensation Committee or, in the case of certain employees and if authorized by the Compensation Committee, the Chief Executive Officer, will (i) determine the employees who are eligible to participate in the Incentive Plan, (ii) establish the performance goals and achievement levels for each participant and (iii) certify the achievement of the performance goals. These decisions will be made solely by the Compensation Committee with respect to employees for whom the limitation on deductibility for compensation pursuant to Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and the treasury regulations thereunder are applicable, including the Company's named executive officers. Employees of the Company and its subsidiaries can be eligible to participate in the Incentive Plan.
For more information about the Incentive Plan, see our definitive proxy statement dated April 15, 2010, the relevant portions of which are incorporated herein by reference. The description above and such portions of the proxy statement are qualified in their entirety by reference to the full text of the Incentive Plan, filed as Exhibit 10.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and incorporated herein by reference.
 
At the Annual Meeting, the stockholders approved a proposal to amend and restate the Company's Second Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as amended, to eliminate the classification of the board of directors (the "Board") and to provide instead for the annual election of directors (the "Charter Amendment and Restatement").
On March 24, 2010, the Board approved the Charter Amendment and Restatement and recommended that it be submitted to the Company's stockholders for approval. On the same date, the Board approved the Third Amended and Restated Bylaws of the Company (the "New Bylaws"), contingent and effective upon stockholder approval of the Charter Amendment and Restatement. The New Bylaws became effective on May 19, 2010 upon approval of the Charter Amendment and Restatement.
Under Section 141 of the Delaware General Corporation Law (the "DGCL"), the elimination of the classification of the Board also has the effect of changing the ability of stockholders to remove directors other than for cause. Previously under the bylaws, directors could be removed only with cause, as defined. As required by Section 141 of the DGCL, the New Bylaws provide that directors may be removed with or without cause.
The New Bylaws also update the Company's registered agent and certain section numbering.
The foregoing descriptions of the Third Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and the New Bylaws are qualified in their entirety by reference to the full text of the Third Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and the New Bylaws, which are filed as Exhibits 3.1 and 3.2, respectively, to this Current Report on Form 8-K and are incorporated herein by reference.
 
The Company held the Annual Meeting on May 19, 2010 to (i) vote on a proposal to approve the Charter Amendment and Restatement to provide for the annual election of directors ("Proposal 1"), (ii) if Proposal 1 was approved, elect 10 directors to the Board to serve for a term of one year or until their respective successors are elected and qualified ("Proposal 2"), (iii) if Proposal 1 was not approved, elect three directors to the Board to serve for a term of three years or until their respective successors are elected and qualified ("Proposal 3"), (iv) vote on a proposal to approve the Incentive Plan ("Proposal 4"), and (v) ratify the appointment of Deloitte and Touche LLP as the Company's independent registered public accounting firm for the fiscal year ending January 1, 2011 ("Proposal 5"). For more information about the foregoing proposals, see our definitive proxy statement dated April 15, 2010, the relevant portions of which are incorporated herein by reference.
The table below shows the final results of the voting at the Annual Meeting. Because Proposal 1 was approved, Proposal 2 was submitted to the stockholders and voted upon and Proposal 3 was not.
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: May 25, 2010
 
 
 

Exhibit 3.1
Fossil, Inc., a corporation organized and existing under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the "Corporation"), does hereby certify as follows:
1. The name under which the Corporation was originally incorporated was Fossil Acquisition Corporation.
2. The date of filing of the original Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation (the "Original Certificate") with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware is December 26, 1991.
3. The date of filing of the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation (the "Amended and Restated Certificate") with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware is March 29, 1993.
4. The date of filing of the first Certificate of Amendment of the Amended and Restated Certificate (the "First Amended Certificate") with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware is June 21, 1995.
5. The date of filing of the Second Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation (the "Second Amended and Restated Certificate") with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware is June 23, 1998.
6. The date of filing of the first Certificate of Amendment of the Second Amended and Restated Certificate (the "Second Amended Certificate") with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware is June 12, 2000.
7. This Third Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation (the "Third Amended and Restated Certificate") was duly adopted in accordance with the provisions of Sections 242 and 245 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware ("DGCL").
8. This Third Amended and Restated Certificate restates, integrates and amends the Original Certificate, Amended and Restated Certificate, First Amended Certificate, Second Amended and Restated Certificate, and Second Amended Certificate to read in its entirety as follows:
The name of the Corporation is Fossil, Inc.
The address of the Corporation's registered office in the State of Delaware is 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, New Castle County, Delaware 19801. The name of the Corporation's registered agent at such address is The Corporation Trust Company.
The purpose of the corporation is to engage in any lawful act or activity for which corporations may be organized under the DGCL.
The aggregate number of shares of all classes of stock which the Corporation shall have authority to issue is 101,000,000 shares, consisting of 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $0.01 per share ("Preferred Stock"), and 100,000,000 shares of common stock, par value $0.01 per share ("Common Stock").
The Preferred Stock may be issued, from time to time, in one or more series as authorized by the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors, by resolution, shall designate that series to distinguish it from other series and classes of stock of the Corporation, shall specify the number of shares to be included in the series, and shall fix the terms, rights, restrictions, and qualifications of, the shares of the series, including any preferences, voting power, dividend rights and redemption, sinking fund and conversion rights. The relative powers, preferences and rights of each series of Preferred Stock in relation to the powers, preferences and rights of each other series of Preferred Stock shall be as fixed from time to time by the Board of Directors in the resolution or resolutions authorizing the issuance of each series adopted by the Board of Directors.
Except as otherwise required by law, this Certificate of Incorporation or the provisions of any resolutions adopted by the Board of Directors authorizing the issuance of Preferred Stock, each holder of shares of Common Stock shall be entitled to one vote in respect of each share of Common Stock held in his name on the books of the Corporation on each matter voted upon by the stockholders. Cumulative voting of shares of Common Stock is expressly prohibited.
The business affairs of the Corporation shall be managed by or under the direction of a Board of Directors, except as otherwise provided by law or by this Certificate of Incorporation.
The Board of Directors shall have the power to make, alter, amend, change, add to or repeal the bylaws of the Corporation.
The Board of Directors shall consist of such number of directors that, from time to time, shall be fixed by, or in the manner provided in, the bylaws of the Corporation. Election of directors need not be by written ballot unless the bylaws so provide.
Commencing with the 2010 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, the directors shall be elected annually for terms expiring at the next succeeding annual meeting. A director shall hold office until his or her successor shall be elected and shall qualify, subject, however, to prior death, resignation, retirement or removal from office.
In addition to the powers and authority conferred upon the Board of Directors by statute or by this Certificate of Incorporation, the Board of Directors is hereby empowered to exercise all such powers and do all such acts and things as may be exercised or done by the Corporation, subject to the provisions of the DGCL, this Certificate of Incorporation and any bylaws adopted by the stockholders; provided, however, that no bylaws adopted by the stockholders shall invalidate any prior act of the Board of Directors that would have been valid if such bylaws had not been adopted.
A director of the Corporation shall not be personally liable to the Corporation or its stockholders for monetary damages for breach of fiduciary duty as a director, except for liability (i) for any breach of the director's duty of loyalty to the Corporation or its stockholders, (ii) for acts or omissions not in good faith or which involve intentional misconduct or a knowing violation of law, (iii) under Section 174 of the DGCL, or (iv) for any transaction from which the director derived an improper personal benefit. If the DGCL is amended after the date of filing of this Certificate of Incorporation to authorize any corporate action which further eliminates or limits the personal liability of directors, then the liability of a director of the Corporation, in addition to the limitation on personal liability provided herein, shall be limited to the fullest extent permitted by the DGCL as amended. Any repeal or modification of this Article VI by the stockholders of the Corporation shall be prospective only, and shall not adversely affect any limitation on the personal liability of a director of the Corporation existing at the time of such repeal or modification.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this Third Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation on behalf of the Corporation on May 19, 2010.
 

Exhibit 3.2
 
 
 
Section 1.1. . The registered office of Fossil, Inc. ("the Corporation") in the State of Delaware is 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, New Castle County, Delaware 19801. The registered agent at such address is The Corporation Trust Company.
Registered Office
Section 1.2. . The Corporation may also have offices at such other places both within and without the State of Delaware as the Board of Directors may from time to time determine.
Other Offices
Section 2.1. . Meetings of the stockholders for the election of directors or for any other purpose, including the annual meeting of stockholders, shall be held on such date and at such time and place, either within or without the State of Delaware, as shall be designated from time to time by the Board of Directors and stated in the notice of the meeting or in a duly executed waiver of notice thereof.
Place Of Meetings
Section 2.2. . The annual meeting of stockholders shall be held on such date and at such time as shall be designated from time to time by the Board of Directors and stated in the notice of meeting, at which meeting the stockholders shall elect a Board of Directors, and transact such other business as may properly be brought before the meeting. Written notice of the annual meeting stating the place, date and hour of the meeting shall be given to each stockholder entitled to vote at such meeting not less than ten nor more than 60 days before the date of the meeting.
Annual Meetings
Section 2.3. . Unless otherwise prescribed by law or by the Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation, as amended from time to time (the "Certificate of Incorporation"), special meetings of stockholders, for any purpose or purposes, may be called by the Chairman of the Board, if any, or the President and shall be called by any officer at the request in writing of a majority of the Board of Directors or on the written request of holders of at least 50% of the total number of shares of capital stock of the Corporation issued and outstanding and entitled to vote. Such request shall state the specific purpose or purposes of the proposed meeting, and shall disclose any derivatives, hedged positions, synthetic and temporary ownership techniques, swaps, securities loans, timed purchases and other economic and voting interests or similar positions, securities or interests held by the requesting holders or their affiliates or to which any of the requesting holders or their affiliates are a party. Written notice of the special meeting stating the place, date and hour of the meeting and the purpose or purposes for which the meeting is called shall be given to each stockholder entitled to vote at such meeting not less than ten nor more than 60 days before the date of such meeting. Notwithstanding anything set forth in these Bylaws, at a special meeting called by the stockholders of the Corporation, only the Corporation and the stockholders who participated in the written meeting request may propose any item for consideration or nominate directors for election at such meeting.
Special Meetings
 
Section 2.4. . Except as otherwise provided by law or by the Certificate of Incorporation, the holders of a majority of the capital stock issued and outstanding and entitled to vote thereat, present in person or represented by proxy, shall constitute a quorum at all meetings of stockholders for the transaction of business. If, however, such quorum shall not be present or represented at any meeting of stockholders, then a majority of the stockholders entitled to vote thereat who are present in person or represented by proxy, shall have power to adjourn the meeting from time to time, without notice other than announcement at the meeting, until a quorum shall be present or represented. At such adjourned meeting at which a quorum shall be present or represented, any business may be transacted which might have been transacted at the meeting as originally noticed. If the adjournment is for more than 30 days, or if after the adjournment a new record date is fixed for the adjourned meeting, a notice of the adjourned meeting shall be given to each stockholder entitled to vote at the meeting.
Quorum
Section 2.5. . Unless otherwise required by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws, any question brought before any meeting of stockholders shall be decided by the vote of the holders of a majority of the stock present in person or represented by proxy and entitled to vote thereat. Each stockholder present in person or represented by proxy at a meeting of stockholders shall be entitled to cast one vote for each share entitled to vote thereat held by such stockholder. Votes may be cast in person or by proxy but no proxy shall be voted or acted on or after three years from its date, unless such proxy provides for a longer period. The Board of Directors, in its discretion, or the officer of the Corporation presiding at a meeting of stockholders, in his discretion, may require that any votes cast at such meeting shall be cast by written ballot.
Voting
Section 2.6. . The officer of the Corporation who has charge of the stock ledger of the Corporation shall prepare and make, at least ten days before every meeting of stockholders, a complete list of the stockholders entitled to vote at the meeting, showing the address of each stockholder and the number of shares registered in the name of each stockholder. Such list shall be open to the examination of any stockholder, for any purpose germane to the meeting, during ordinary business hours, for a period of at least ten days prior to the meeting, either at a place within the city where the meeting is to be held, which place shall be specified in the notice of the meeting, or if not so specified, at the place where the meeting is to be held. The list shall also be produced and kept at the time and place of the meeting during the whole time thereof and may be inspected by any stockholder of the Corporation who is present.
List of Stockholders Entitled to Vote
 
Section 2.7. . The stock ledger of the Corporation shall be the only evidence as to who are the stockholders entitled (i) to examine the stock ledger, the list required by Section 2.6 of this Article II or the books of the Corporation and (ii) to vote in person or by proxy at any meeting of stockholders.
Stock Ledger
Section 2.8. . In order that the Corporation may determine the stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at any meeting of stockholders or any adjournment thereof, or to express consent to corporate action in writing without a meeting or entitled to receive payment of any dividend or other distribution or allotment of any rights, or entitled to exercise any rights in respect of any change, conversion or exchange of stock or for the purpose of any other lawful action, the Board of Directors may fix, in advance, a record date, which in the case of a meeting, shall not be less than the minimum nor more than the maximum number of days prior to the scheduled date of such meeting permitted under the laws of the State of Delaware and which, in the case of any other action, shall be not less than the minimum nor more than the maximum number of days prior to any such action permitted by the laws of the State of Delaware. If no such record date is fixed by the Board of Directors, the record date shall be that prescribed by the laws of the State of Delaware. A determination of stockholders of record entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall apply to any adjournment of the meeting; provided, however, that the Board of Directors may fix a new record date for the adjourned meeting.
Record Date
Section 2.9. . All determinations of the presiding person at each meeting of stockholders shall be conclusive unless a matter is determined otherwise upon motion duly adopted by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 80% of the voting power of the shares of capital stock of the Corporation entitled to vote thereat held by stockholders present in person or represented by proxy at such meeting. Accordingly, subject to the previous sentence, in any meeting of stockholders or part thereof, the presiding person shall have the sole power to determine appropriate rules or to dispense with theretofore prevailing rules. Without limiting the foregoing, the following rules shall apply:
Conduct of Meetings by Presiding Person
(a) The presiding person may ask or require that anyone not a bona fide stockholder or proxy leave the meeting.
(b) A resolution or motion shall be considered for vote only if proposed by a stockholder or duly authorized proxy, and seconded by an individual who is a stockholder or a duly authorized proxy, other than the individual who proposed the resolution or motion, subject to compliance with any other requirements concerning such a proposed resolution or motion contained in these Bylaws. The presiding person may propose any motion for vote. The order of business at all meetings of stockholders shall be determined by the presiding person.
(c) The presiding person may impose any reasonable limits with respect to participation in the meeting by stockholders, including, but not limited to, limits on the amount of time at the meeting taken up by the remarks or questions of any stockholder, limits on the numbers of questions per stockholder, and limits as to the subject matter and timing of questions and remarks by stockholders.
 
(d) Before any meeting of stockholders, the Board of Directors may appoint any persons other than nominees for office to act as inspectors of election at the meeting or its adjournment. If no inspectors of election are so appointed, the presiding person may, and on the request of any stockholder or a stockholder's proxy shall appoint inspector(s) of election at the meeting of stockholders. If any person appointed as inspector fails to appear or fails or refuses to act, the presiding person may, and upon the request of any stockholder or a stockholder's proxy shall appoint a person to fill such vacancy.
The duties of these inspectors shall be as follows:
(i) Determine, as of the record date, the number of shares outstanding and the voting power of each, the shares represented at the meeting, the existence of a quorum, and the authenticity, validity and effect of proxies;
(ii) Receive votes or ballots;
(iii) Hear and determine all challenges and questions in any way arising in connection with the right to vote;
(iv) Count and tabulate all votes;
(v) Report to the Board of Directors the results based on the information assembled by the inspectors; and
(vi) Do any other acts that may be proper to conduct the election or vote with fairness to all stockholders.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the final certification of the results of any election or other matter acted upon at a meeting of stockholders shall be made by the Board of Directors.
Section 2.10. . A stockholder who wishes to nominate a director or directors for election must comply with this Section 2.10. A stockholder who wishes to include business in a proxy statement prepared by the Corporation must also comply with Rule 14a-8 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), as the same exists or may hereafter be amended or any other applicable laws as presently or hereafter in effect.
Nomination of Directors
Nominations for the election of directors may be made by the Board of Directors or by any stockholder (a "Nominator") entitled to vote in the election of directors. Such nominations, other than those made by the Board of Directors, shall be made in writing pursuant to timely notice delivered to or mailed to and received by the Secretary of the Corporation as set forth in this Section 2.10.
 
To be timely in connection with an annual meeting of stockholders, a Nominator's notice, setting forth the name and address of the person to be nominated, shall be delivered to or mailed to and received at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not less than 90 days nor more than 180 days prior to the date on which the immediately preceding year's annual meeting of stockholders was held; provided, however, that in the event that the date of the annual meeting is changed by more than 30 days from such anniversary date, notice by the stockholder to be timely must be so received not later than the close of business on the seventh day following the earlier of (i) the date on which notice of the date of the annual meeting was first mailed by or on behalf of the Corporation or (ii) public disclosure of the date of the annual meeting was first made by or on behalf of the Corporation. To be timely in connection with any election of a director at a special meeting of the stockholders, a Nominator's notice, setting forth the name of the person to be nominated, shall be delivered to or mailed to and received at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not less than 40 days nor more than 60 days prior to the date of such meeting; provided, however, that in the event that less than 50 days' notice or prior public disclosure of the date of the special meeting of the stockholders is given or made to the stockholders, the Nominator's notice to be timely must be so received not later than the close of business on the seventh day following the earlier of (i) the date on which notice of the date of the special meeting was first mailed by or on behalf of the Corporation or (ii) public disclosure of the date of the special meeting was first made by or on behalf of the Corporation. In no event shall any adjournment or postponement of an annual or special meeting or the announcement thereof commence a new time period for the giving of the notice and other items required by this Section 2.10.
At the time of giving the notice required by this Section 2.10, the Nominator shall also submit written evidence, reasonably satisfactory to the Secretary of the Corporation, that the Nominator is a stockholder of the Corporation and shall identify in writing (i) the name and address of the Nominator, (ii) the number of shares of each class of capital stock of the Corporation owned beneficially by the Nominator and a description of any derivatives, hedged positions, synthetic and temporary ownership techniques, swaps, securities loans, timed purchases and other economic and voting interests or similar positions, securities or interests held by the Nominator or their affiliates or to which the Nominator or their affiliates is a party, (iii) the name and address of each of the persons with whom the Nominator is acting in concert and (iv) the number of shares of capital stock beneficially owned by each such person with whom the Nominator is acting in concert pursuant to which the nomination or nominations are to be made and a description of any derivatives, hedged positions, synthetic and temporary ownership techniques, swaps, securities loans, timed purchases and other economic and voting interests or similar positions, securities or interests held by each such person with whom the Nominator is acting in concert or their affiliates or to which any person with whom the Nominator is acting in concert or their affiliates is a party.
At the time of giving the notice required by this Section 2.10, for the information of the Corporation and notwithstanding the fact that such information may not be submitted for inclusion in the Corporation's proxy statement with respect to such meeting, the Nominator shall also submit in writing (i) the information with respect to each such proposed nominee that would be required to be provided in a proxy statement prepared in accordance with Regulation 14A under the Exchange Act, (ii) a completed independence questionnaire regarding the potential nominee, which may be obtained from the Secretary of the Corporation, (iii) a description of any voting commitments and/or other obligations by which such potential nominee is or will be bound as a director, (iv) a description of any material relationships between such potential nominee and the Nominator, including compensation and financial transactions and (v) a notarized affidavit executed by each such proposed nominee to the effect that, if elected as a member of the Board of Directors, he or she will serve and that he or she is eligible for election as a member of the Board of Directors.
 
Within 30 days (or such shorter time period that may exist prior to the date of the meeting) after the Nominator has submitted the aforesaid items to the Secretary of the Corporation, the Secretary of the Corporation shall determine whether the evidence of the Nominator's status as a stockholder submitted by the Nominator is reasonably satisfactory and shall notify the Nominator in writing of his determination. The failure of the Secretary of the Corporation to find such evidence reasonably satisfactory, or the failure of the Nominator to submit the requisite information in the form or within the time indicated, shall make such nomination ineffective for the election at the meeting at which such person is attempted to be nominated. The presiding person at each meeting of stockholders shall, if the facts warrant, declare to the meeting that an attempted nomination was made not in accordance with the procedure prescribed by these Bylaws and the defective nomination shall be disregarded.
Section 2.11. . A stockholder who wishes to propose to amend or supplement the Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation must comply with this Section 2.11. A stockholder who wishes to include such business in a proxy statement prepared by the Corporation must also comply with Rule 14a-8 under the Exchange Act, as the same exists or may hereafter be amended or any other applicable laws as presently or hereafter in effect.
Stockholder Proposals Regarding Amendments to Certificate of Incorporation
No proposal by a stockholder to amend or supplement the Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation shall be voted upon at a meeting of stockholders unless such stockholder shall have delivered in writing to the Secretary of the Corporation (i) notice of such proposal and the text of such amendment or supplement, (ii) evidence, reasonably satisfactory to the Secretary of the Corporation, of such stockholder's status as such and of the number of shares of each class of the capital stock of the Corporation beneficially owned by such stockholder and a description of any derivatives, hedged positions, synthetic and temporary ownership techniques, swaps, securities loans, timed purchases and other economic and voting interests or similar positions, securities or interests held by such stockholder or their affiliates or to which such stockholder or their affiliates is a party, (iii) a list of the names and addresses of all other beneficial owners of shares of the capital stock of the Corporation, if any, with whom such stockholder is acting in concert, and of the number of shares of each class of the capital stock of the Corporation beneficially owned by each such beneficial owner and a description of any derivatives, hedged positions, synthetic and temporary ownership techniques, swaps, securities loans, timed purchases and other economic and voting interests or similar positions, securities or interests held by each such beneficial owner or their affiliates or to which each such beneficial owner or their affiliates is a party, (iv) a description of any interest that such stockholder has in the proposal, any benefits that such stockholder may derive from the outcome of the proposal and any agreements such stockholder has with other parties in connection with the proposal, and (v) an opinion of counsel, which counsel and the form and substance of which opinion shall be reasonably satisfactory to the Board of Directors of the Corporation, to the effect that the Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation, as proposed to be so amended or supplemented, would not be in conflict with the laws of the State of Delaware.
 
To be timely in connection with an annual meeting of stockholders, such notice must be delivered to or mailed to and received at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not less than 90 days nor more than 180 days prior to the date on which the immediately preceding year's annual meeting of stockholders was held; provided, however, that in the event that the date of the annual meeting is changed by more than 30 days from such anniversary date, notice by the stockholder to be timely must be so received not later than the close of business on the seventh day following the earlier of (i) the date on which notice of the date of the annual meeting was first mailed by or on behalf of the Corporation or (ii) public disclosure of the date of the annual meeting was first made by or on behalf of the Corporation. To be timely in connection with a special meeting of the stockholders, such notice must be delivered to or mailed to and received at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not less than 40 days nor more than 60 days prior to the date of such meeting; provided, however, that in the event that less than 50 days' notice or prior public disclosure of the date of the special meeting of the stockholders is given or made to the stockholders, such notice to be timely must be so received not later than the close of business on the seventh day following the earlier of (i) the date on which notice of the date of the special meeting was first mailed by or on behalf of the Corporation or (ii) public disclosure of the date of the special meeting was first made by or on behalf of the Corporation. In no event shall any adjournment or postponement of an annual or special meeting or the announcement thereof commence a new time period for the giving of the notice and other items required by this Section 2.11.
Within 30 days (or such shorter period that may exist prior to the date of the meeting) after such stockholder shall have delivered the aforesaid items to the Secretary of the Corporation, the Secretary and, with respect to the opinion of counsel, the Board of Directors shall determine whether such items are reasonably satisfactory and shall notify such stockholder in writing of such determination. If such stockholder fails to submit a required item in the form or within the time indicated, or if the Secretary or the Board of Directors of the Corporation determines that the items to be ruled upon by it are not reasonably satisfactory, then such proposal by such stockholder may not be voted upon by the stockholders of the Corporation at such meeting of stockholders. The presiding person at each meeting of stockholders shall, if the facts warrant, declare to the meeting that an attempted proposal by a stockholder to amend or supplement the Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation was made not in accordance with the procedure prescribed by these Bylaws and the defective proposal shall be disregarded.
Section 2.12. . Unless restricted by the Certificate of Incorporation, any action required to be taken at any annual or special meeting of stockholders, or any action that may be taken at any annual or special meeting of stockholders, may be taken without a meeting, without prior notice and without a vote, if a consent or consents in writing, setting forth the action so taken, shall be signed by the holders of outstanding shares having not less than the minimum number of votes that would be necessary to authorize or take such action at a meeting at which all shares entitled to vote were present and voted and such consent or consents are delivered to the Corporation in the manner prescribed by the Delaware General Corporation Law. Every written consent shall bear the date of the signature of each stockholder, and no written consent shall be effective to take the corporate action unless, within 60 days of the earliest dated consent, written consents signed by a sufficient number of holders to take action are delivered to the Corporation in the manner prescribed by the Delaware General Corporation Law.
Stockholder Action by Written Consent
 
Section 3.1. . The number of directors that shall constitute the whole Board Of Directors shall be fixed and determined from time to time by resolution adopted by the Board of Directors, , no decrease in the number shall have the effect of shortening the term of any incumbent director. Except as provided in Section 3.2 of this Article III, directors shall be elected by a plurality of the votes cast at the annual meetings of stockholders and each director so elected shall hold office until the next annual meeting and until his successor is duly elected and qualified or until his earlier resignation or removal. Any director may resign at any time upon notice to the Corporation. Directors need not be stockholders, citizens of the Untied States or residents of Delaware.
Number and Election of Directors
provided, however
Section 3.2. . Vacancies and newly created directorships resulting from any increase in the authorized number of directors may be filled by a majority of the directors then in office, though less than a quorum, or by a sole remaining director and the directors so chosen shall hold office until the next annual election and until their successors are duly elected and qualified or until their earlier resignation or removal. If there are no directors in office, then an election of directors may be held in the manner provided by statute.
Vacancies
Section 3.3. . The business of the Corporation shall be managed by or under the direction of the Board of Directors, which may exercise all such powers of the Corporation and do all such lawful acts and things as are not by statute or by the Certificate of Incorporation or by these Bylaws directed or required to be exercised or done by the stockholders.
Duties and Powers
Section 3.4. . The Board of Directors may hold meetings, both regular and special, either within or without the State of Delaware. Regular meetings of the Board of Directors may be held without notice at such time and at such place as may from time to time be determined by the Board of Directors. Special meetings of the Board of Directors may be called by or at the direction of the Chairman of the Board, if any, the President or a majority of the directors then in office. Notice thereof stating the place, date and hour of the meeting shall be given to each director either by facsimile, telephone, telegram, electronic mail or other electronic means at least twenty-four hours before the meeting. Notice need not be given to any director or to any member of a committee of directors who submits a written waiver of notice signed by him or her. Attendance of any such person at a meeting shall constitute a waiver of notice of such meeting, except when he or she attends a meeting for the express purpose of objecting, at the beginning of the meeting, to the transaction of any business because the meeting is not lawfully called or convened. Neither the business to be transacted at nor the purpose of, any regular or special meeting of the directors need be specified in any written waiver of notice.
Meetings
 
Section 3.5. . Except as may be otherwise specifically provided by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws, at all meetings of the Board of Directors a majority of the entire Board of Directors shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business and the act of a majority of the directors present at any meeting at which there is a quorum shall be the act of the Board of Directors. If a quorum is not present at a meeting of the Board of Directors, the directors present may adjourn the meeting from time to time, without notice other than by an announcement at the meeting, until a quorum is present.
Quorum
Section 3.6. . Unless otherwise provided by the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws, any action required or permitted to be taken at any Meeting of the Board of Directors or any committee thereof may be taken without a meeting, if all the members of the Board of Directors or committee consent thereto in writing, in one document or in counterparts, and the writing or writings are filed with the minutes of proceedings of the Board of Directors or committee.
Actions of Board
Section 3.7. . Unless otherwise provided by the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws, members of the Board of Directors or any committee designated by the Board of Directors may participate in a meeting of the Board of Directors or such committee by means of a conference telephone or similar communications equipment by means of which all persons participating in the meeting can hear each other, and participation in a meeting pursuant to this Section 3.7 shall constitute presence in person at such meeting.
Meetings by Means of Conference Telephone
Section 3.8. . The Board of Directors may from time to time by resolution authorize the payment of fees, the grant of options to acquire stock in the Corporation or other compensation to the Directors for services as such to the Corporation including, but not limited to, a fixed sum and expenses for attendance at each regular or special meeting of the Board of Directors or any committee thereof, provided that nothing contained herein shall be construed to preclude any director from serving the Corporation in any other capacity and receiving compensation therefor.
Compensation
Section 3.9. . No contract or transaction between the Corporation and one or more of its directors or officers, or between the Corporation and any other corporation, partnership, association or other organization in which one or more of its directors or officers are directors or officers, or have a financial interest, shall be void or voidable solely for this reason, or solely because the director or officer is present at or participates in the meeting of the Board of Directors or committee thereof that authorizes the contract or transaction or solely because his, her or their votes are counted for such purpose if (a) the material facts as to his, her or their relationship or interest and as to the contract or transaction are disclosed or are known to the Board of Directors or committee, and the Board of Directors or committee in good faith authorizes the contract or transaction by the affirmative vote of a majority of the disinterested directors, even though the disinterested directors be less than a quorum, (b) the material facts as to his, her or their relationship or interest and as to the contract or transaction are disclosed or are known to the stockholders entitled to vote thereon and the contract or transaction is specifically approved in good faith by vote of the stockholders or (c) the contract or transaction is fair as to the Corporation as of the time it is authorized, approved or ratified by the Board of Directors, a committee thereof or the stockholders. Common or interested directors may be counted in determining the presence of a quorum at a meeting of the Board of Directors or a committee that authorizes the contract or transaction.
Interested Directors
 
Section 3.10. . A stockholder who wishes to propose to remove a director of the Corporation must comply with this Section 3.10. A stockholder who wishes to include such business in a proxy statement prepared by the Corporation must also comply with Rule 14a-8 under the Exchange Act, as the same exists or may hereafter be amended or any other applicable laws as presently or hereafter in effect.
Removal
No proposal by a stockholder to remove a director of the Corporation shall be voted upon at a meeting of the stockholders unless such stockholder shall have delivered in writing to the Secretary of the Corporation (i) notice of such proposal, (ii) a statement of the grounds, if any, on which such director is proposed to be removed, (iii) evidence, reasonably satisfactory to the Secretary of the Corporation, of such stockholder's status as such and of the number of shares of each class of the capital stock of the Corporation beneficially owned by such stockholder and a description of any derivatives, hedged positions, synthetic and temporary ownership techniques, swaps, securities loans, timed purchases and other economic and voting interests or similar positions, securities or interests held by such stockholder or their affiliates or to which such stockholder or their affiliates is a party, (iv) a list of the names and addresses of all other beneficial owners of shares of the capital stock of the Corporation, if any, with whom such stockholder is acting in concert, and of the number of shares of each class of the capital stock of the Corporation beneficially owned by each such beneficial owner and a description of any derivatives, hedged positions, synthetic and temporary ownership techniques, swaps, securities loans, timed purchases and other economic and voting interests or similar positions, securities or interests held by each such beneficial owner or their affiliates or to which each such beneficial owner or their affiliates is a party, (iv) a description of any interest that such stockholder has in the proposal, any benefits that such stockholder may derive from the outcome of the proposal and any agreements such stockholder has with other parties in connection with the proposal, and (v) an opinion of counsel, which counsel and the form and substance of which opinion shall be reasonably satisfactory to the Board of Directors of the Corporation (excluding the director proposed to be removed), to the effect that, if adopted at a duly called special or annual meeting of the stockholders of the Corporation by the required vote as set forth in the first paragraph of this Section 3.10, such removal would not be in conflict with the laws of the State of Delaware, the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws.
 
To be timely in connection with an annual meeting of stockholders, a stockholder's notice and other aforesaid items must be delivered to or mailed to and received at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not less than 90 days nor more than 180 days prior to the date on which the immediately preceding year's annual meeting of stockholders was held; provided, however, that in the event that the date of the annual meeting is changed by more than 30 days from such anniversary date, notice by the stockholder to be timely must be so received not later than the close of business on the seventh day following the earlier of (i) the date on which notice of the date of the annual meeting was first mailed by or on behalf of the Corporation or (ii) public disclosure of the date of the annual meeting was first made by or on behalf of the Corporation. To be timely in connection with the removal of any director at a special meeting of the stockholders, a stockholder's notice and other aforesaid items must be delivered to or mailed to and received at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not less than 40 days nor more than 60 days prior to the date of such meeting; provided, however, that in the event that less than 50 days' notice or prior public disclosure of the date of the special meeting of stockholders is given or made to the stockholders, the stockholder's notice and other aforesaid items to be timely must be so received not later than the close of business on the seventh day following the earlier of (i) the date on which notice of the date of the special meeting was first mailed by or on behalf of the Corporation or (ii) public disclosure of the date of the special meeting was first made by or on behalf of the Corporation. In no event shall any adjournment or postponement of an annual or special meeting or the announcement thereof commence a new time period for the giving of the notice and other items required by this Section 3.10.
Within 30 days (or such shorter period that may exist prior to the date of the meeting) after such stockholder shall have delivered the aforesaid items to the Secretary of the Corporation, the Secretary and, with respect to the opinion of counsel, the Board of Directors shall determine whether such items are reasonably satisfactory and shall notify such stockholder in writing of such determination. If such stockholder fails to submit a required item in the form or within the time indicated, or if the Secretary or the Board of Directors of the Corporation determines that the items to be ruled upon by it are not reasonably satisfactory, then such proposal by such stockholder may not be voted upon by the stockholders of the Corporation at such meeting of stockholders. The presiding person at each meeting of stockholders shall, if the facts warrant, declare to the meeting that a proposal to remove a director of the Corporation was made not in accordance with the procedure prescribed by these Bylaws and the defective proposal shall be disregarded.
Section 4.1. . The Board of Directors may, by resolution passed by a majority of the whole Board, designate one or more committees, each committee to consist of one or more of the directors of the Corporation. The Board may designate one or more directors as alternate members of any committee, who may replace any absent or disqualified member at any meeting of the committee. In the absence or disqualification of a member of a committee, and in the absence of a designation by the Board of Directors of an alternate member to replace the absent or disqualified member, the member or members present at any meeting and not disqualified from voting, whether or not he or they constitute a quorum may unanimously appoint another member of the Board of Directors to act at the meeting in the place of any such absent or disqualified member. Any committee, to the extent provided in the resolution of the Board of Directors establishing such committee, shall have and may exercise all the powers and authority of the Board of Directors in the management of the business and affairs of the Corporation; , no committee shall have the power or authority to approve an amendment to the Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation, adopt an agreement of merger or consolidation, recommend to the stockholders the sale, lease or exchange of all or substantially all of the Corporation's property and assets, recommend to the stockholders a dissolution of the Corporation or a revocation of a dissolution, or amend these Bylaws; and, unless the resolution expressly so provides, no such committee shall have the power or authority to declare a dividend or to authorize the issuance of stock. Each committee shall keep regular minutes and report to the Board of Directors when required to do so.
Committees
provided, however
 
Section 4.2. . Unless the Board of Directors otherwise provides, each Committee designated by the Board may make, alter and repeal rules for the conduct of its business. In the absence of such rule, each committee shall conduct its business in the same manner as the Board of Directors conducts its business pursuant to Sections 3.4, 3.5, 3.6 and 3.7 of these Bylaws.
Committee Rules
Section 5.1. . The Board of Directors, in its discretion, may elect a Chairman of the Board (who must be a director), President, Secretary, Treasurer, Controller, and one or more Divisional Presidents, Vice Presidents, Assistant Secretaries, Assistant Treasurers and other officers. Any number of offices may be held by the same person, unless otherwise prohibited by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws. The officers of the Corporation need not be stockholders of the Corporation or, except in the case of the Chairman of the Board of Directors, directors of the Corporation.
General
Section 5.2. . The Board of Directors at its first meeting held after each annual meeting of stockholders shall elect the officers of the Corporation, who shall hold their offices for such terms and shall exercise such powers and perform such duties as shall be determined from time to time by the Board of Directors; and all officers of the Corporation shall hold office until their successors are chosen and qualified or until their earlier resignation or removal. Any officer elected by the Board of Directors may be removed at any time by the affirmative vote of a majority of the Board of Directors. Any vacancy occurring in any office of the Corporation shall be filled by the Board of Directors. The salaries of all officers of the Corporation shall be fixed by the Board of Directors and may be altered from time to time except as otherwise provided by contract.
Election
Section 5.3. . There shall be a Chairman of the Board of Directors who, under the direction and subject to the control of the Board of Directors, in general shall supervise and control all of the business and affairs of the Corporation. The Chairman of the Board of Directors shall preside at all meetings of the stockholders and of the Board of Directors and shall perform such other duties as the Board of Directors may assign him from time to time. The Chairman of the Board of Directors shall possess the power to sign all contracts, certificates and other Instruments of the Corporation as the Board of Directors from time to time may prescribe.
Chairman of the Board of Directors
 
Section 5.4. . The Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation will serve under the direction and subject to the control of the Board of Directors and the Chairman of the Board of Directors. The Chief Executive Officer in general shall supervise and control all of the business, affairs and property of the Corporation and shall be its chief policy making officer, shall have control over its officers, agents and employees; and shall see that all orders and resolutions of the Board of Directors and Chairman of the Board are carried into effect. In the absence of the Chairman of the Board of Directors the Chief Executive Officer shall perform such other duties as the Board of Directors may assign him from time to time. The Chief Executive Officer shall possess the same power as the Chairman of the Board to sign all contracts, certificates and other Instruments of the Corporation.
Chief Executive Officer
Section 5.5. . The President shall be the chief operating officer of the Corporation and shall report to the Chairman of the Board of Directors. The President shall, subject to the Powers of the Board of Directors and the Chairman of the Board of Directors, have general charge of the business, affairs and property of the Corporation, and control over its officers, agents, and employees; and shall see that all orders and resolutions of the Board of Directors are carried into effect. The President may execute and deliver certificates for shares of the Corporation, any deeds, mortgages, bonds, contracts or other instruments that the Board of Directors has authorized to be executed and delivered, except in cases where the execution and delivery thereof shall be expressly delegated to another officer and deliver thereof shall be otherwise required by law to be executed and delivered by another person. The President shall also perform such other duties and may exercise such other powers as from time to time my be assigned to him or her by these Bylaws or by the Board of Directors.
President
Section 5.6. . Each Vice President shall perform such duties and have such other powers as the Board of Directors from time to time may prescribe. Certain Vice Presidents may from time to time be designated by the Board of Directors or the Chairman of the Board of Directors as Executive Vice Presidents or Senior Vice Presidents which positions shall have such varying degrees of authority as the Board of Directors shall prescribe.
Vice President
Section 5.7. . The Divisional Presidents shall perform such duties and have such other powers as the Board of Directors from time to time may prescribe. The Divisional Presidents shall, subject to the powers of the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer and the President, have general charge of the business, affairs and property of that division over which he is Divisional President, and control over its officers, agents, and employees; and shall see that all orders and resolutions of the Board of Directors are carried into effect. The Divisional Presidents may execute and deliver such documents, certificates and such other instruments that the Board of Directors has authorized to be executed and deliver, except in cases where the execution and delivery thereof shall be expressly delegated to another officer or as otherwise required by law to be executed and delivered by another person.
Divisional Presidents
 
Section 5.8. . In the absence or disability of the Chairman of the Board of Directors and the Chief Executive Officer, or if there be none, the President shall preside at all meetings of the stockholders and (if the President is a director) the Board of Directors. In the absence or disability of both the Chairman of the Board of Directors and the President, or at the request of the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the Vice President or the Vice Presidents, if there be more than one, shall perform the duties of the Chairman of the Board of Directors, and when so acting, shall have all the powers of and be subject to all the restrictions upon the Chairman of the Board of Directors. If there be no Chairman of the Board of Directors, Chief Executive Officer, President or Vice President, the Board of Directors shall designate the officer of the Corporation who shall perform the duties of the Chairman of the Board of Directors, and when so acting, shall have all the powers of and be subject to all the restrictions upon the Chairman of the Board of Directors.
Absence of Officers
Section 5.9. . The Secretary shall attend all meetings of the Board of Directors and all meetings of stockholders and record all the proceedings thereat in a book or books to be kept for that purpose; the Secretary shall also perform like duties for the standing committees when required. The Secretary shall give, or cause to be given, notice of all meetings of the stockholders and special meetings of the Board of Directors, and shall perform such other duties as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors or Chairman of the Board of Directors, under whose supervision he or she shall be. If the Secretary shall be unable or shall refuse to cause to be given notice of all meetings of the Stockholders and special meetings of the Board of Directors, and if there be no Assistant Secretary, then either the Board of Directors or the Chairman of the Board of Directors may choose another officer to cause such notice to be given. The Secretary shall have custody of the seal of the Corporation and the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary, if there be one, shall have authority to affix the same to any instrument requiring it and when so affixed, it may be attested by the signature of the Secretary or by the signature of any such Assistant Secretary. The Board of Directors may give general authority to any other officer to affix the seal of the Corporation and to attest the affixing by his or her signature. The Secretary shall see that all books, reports, statements, certificates and other documents and records required by law to be kept or filed are properly kept or filed, as the case may be.
Secretary
Section 5.10. . The Chief Financial Officer of the Corporation shall have general supervision over the financial operations of the Corporation, subject to the direction of the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer and the President. The Chief Financial Officer may sign and execute in the name of the Corporation deeds, mortgages, bonds, contracts or other instruments authorized by the Board of Directors and may execute and deliver such documents, certificates and such other instruments that the Board of Directors has authorized to be executed and delivered, except in cases where the execution and delivery thereof shall be expressly delegated to another officer or as otherwise required by law to be executed and delivered by another person.
Chief Financial Officer
Section 5.11. . The Treasurer shall have the custody of the corporate funds and securities and shall keep full and accurate accounts of receipts and disbursements in books belonging to the Corporation and shall deposit all moneys and other valuable effects in the name and to the credit of the Corporation in such depositories as may be designated by the Board of Directors. The Treasurer shall disburse the funds of the Corporation as may be ordered by the Board of Directors, taking proper vouchers for such disbursements, and shall render to the Chairman of the Board of Directors and the Board of Directors, at its regular meeting or when the Board of Directors so requires, an account of all his or her transactions as Treasurer and of the financial condition of the Corporation. If required by the Board of Directors, the Treasurer shall give the Corporation a bond in such sum and with such surety or sureties as shall be satisfactory to the Board of Directors for the faithful performance of the duties of his or her office and for the restoration to the Corporation, in case of his or her death, resignation, retirement or removal from office, of all books, papers, vouchers, money and other property of whatever kind in his or her possession or under his or her control belonging to the Corporation.
Treasurer
 
Section 5.12. . The Controller, if there be one, shall have charge of the Corporation's books of account, records and auditing, and shall be subject in all matters to the control of the Chairman of the Board of Directors and the Board of Directors.
Controller
Section 5.13. . Except as may be otherwise provided in these Bylaws, Assistant Secretaries, if there be any, shall perform such duties and have such powers as from time to time may be assigned to them by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer, the President, any Vice President, if there be one, or the Secretary, and in the absence of the Secretary or in the event of his or her disability or refusal to act, shall perform the duties of the Secretary, and when so acting, shall have all the powers of and be subject to all the restrictions upon the Secretary.
Assistant Secretaries
Section 5.14. . Assistant Treasurers, if there be any, shall perform such duties and have such powers as from time to time may be assigned to them by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer, the President, any Vice President, if there be one, or the Treasurer, and in the absence of the Treasurer or in the event of his or her disability or refusal to act, shall perform the duties of the Treasurer, and when so acting, shall have all the powers of and be subject to all the restrictions upon the Treasurer. If required by the Board of Directors, an Assistant Treasurer shall give the Corporation a bond in such sum and with such surety or sureties as shall be satisfactory to the Board of Directors for the faithful performance of the duties of his or her office and for the restoration to the Corporation, in case of his or her death, resignation, retirement or removal from office of all books, papers, vouchers, money and other property of whatever kind in his or her possession or under his or her control belonging to the Corporation.
Assistant Treasurers
Section 5.15. . Such other officers as the Board of Directors may appoint shall perform such duties and have such powers as from time to time may be assigned to them by the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors may delegate to any other officer of the Corporation the power to choose such other officers and to prescribe their respective duties and powers.
Other Officers
 
Section 6.1. The shares of the Corporation shall be evidenced by certificates in such form as the appropriate officers of the Corporation may from time to time prescribe; provided that the Board may provide by resolution or resolutions that some or all of any or all classes or series of stock of the Corporation shall be uncertificated shares. Notwithstanding the foregoing, each holder of uncertificated shares shall be entitled, upon request, to a certificate representing such shares. Shares represented by certificates shall be numbered and registered in a share register as they are issued. Share certificates shall exhibit the name of the registered holder and the number and class of shares and the series, if any, represented thereby and the par value of each share or a statement that such shares are without par value as the case may be. Except as otherwise provided by law, the rights and obligations of the holders of uncertificated shares and the rights and obligations of the holders of certificated shares of the same class and series shall be identical.
Certificates; Signatures on Certificates.
Every share certificate shall be signed by the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the President or a Vice President; and by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary or the Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer; and shall be sealed with the Corporation's seal which may be facsimile, engraved or printed.
Section 6.2. . The Corporation may appoint a transfer agent to act on behalf of the Corporation in keeping certain records on each registered stockholder and to make legal transfers of the Corporation's shares.
Transfer Agent
Section 6.3. . Where a certificate is countersigned by (a) a transfer agent other than the Corporation or its designated employees or (b) a registrar other than the Corporation or its designated employees, any other signature on the Certificate may be a facsimile. In case any officer, transfer agent or registrar who has signed or whose facsimile signature has been placed upon a certificate shall have ceased to be such Officer, transfer agent or registrar before such certificate is issued, it may be issued by the Corporation with the same effect as if he or she were such officer, transfer agent or registrar at the date of issue.
Signatures
Section 6.4. . The Board of Directors may direct a new certificate to be issued in place of any certificate theretofore issued by the Corporation alleged to have been lost, stolen or destroyed, upon the making of an affidavit of that fact by the person claiming the certificate of stock to be lost, stolen or destroyed. When authorizing such issue of a new certificate, the Board of Directors may, in its discretion and as a condition precedent to the issuance thereof, require the owner of such lost, stolen or destroyed certificate, or his or her legal representative, to advertise the same in such manner as the Board of Directors shall require and/or to give the Corporation a bond or other indemnity deemed satisfactory by the Board of Directors in such sum as it may direct as indemnity against any claim that may be made against the Corporation with respect to the certificate alleged to have been lost, stolen or destroyed.
Lost Certificates
 
Section 6.5. . Upon surrender to the Corporation, or a transfer agent of the Corporation, of a certificate for shares duly endorsed or accompanied by proper evidence of succession, assignment or authority to transfer, the Corporation may issue a new certificate, or, upon request, evidence of the equivalent uncertificated shares, to the person entitled thereto, cancel the old certificate and record the transaction upon its books. Upon receipt of proper transfer instructions from the holder of uncertificated shares, the Corporation shall cancel such uncertificated shares and issue new equivalent uncertificated shares, or, upon such holder's request, certificated shares, to the person entitled thereto, and record the transaction upon its books.
Transfer of Shares
Section 6.6. . The Corporation and its transfer agents shall be entitled to treat the holder of record of any share or shares as the holder in fact thereof and shall not be bound to recognize any equitable or other claims to, or interest in, such shares on the part of any other person and shall not be liable for any registration or transfer of shares which are registered, or to be registered, in the name of a fiduciary or the nominee of a fiduciary unless made with actual knowledge that a fiduciary, or nominee of a fiduciary, is committing a breach of trust in requesting such registration or transfer, or with knowledge of such facts that its participation therein amounts to bad faith
Registered Stockholders
Section 7.1. . Whenever written notice is required by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws to be given to any director, member of a committee or stockholder, such notice may be given by mail, addressed to such director, member of a committee or stockholder, at his address as it appears on the records of the Corporation, with postage thereon prepaid, and such notice shall be deemed to be given at the time when the same shall be deposited in the United States mail. Written notice may also be given personally or by facsimile, electronic mail or other electronic means, telegram, telecopy, telex or cable and such notice shall be deemed given at the time when the same is sent.
Notices
Section 7.2. . Whenever any notice is required by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws to be given to any director, member of a committee or stockholder, a written waiver, signed by the person or persons entitled to such notice, whether before or after the time stated therein, shall be deemed equivalent to notice.
Waivers of Notice
 
Section 8.1. . The Corporation shall indemnify, and advance Expenses (as this and all other capitalized words used in this Article VIII and not previously defined in these Bylaws are defined in Section 8.14 of this Article VIII) to, Indemnitee to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law in effect on the date of the effectiveness of these Bylaws, and to such greater extent as applicable law may thereafter permit. The rights of Indemnitee provided under the preceding sentence shall include, but not be limited to, the right to be indemnified to the fullest extent permitted by 145(b) of the DGCL in Proceedings by or in the right of the Corporation and to the fullest extent permitted by 145(a) of the DGCL in all other Proceedings. The provisions set forth below in this Article VIII are provided in furtherance, and not by way of limitation, of the obligations expressed in this Section 8.1.
General
Section 8.2. . If Indemnitee is, by reason of his or her Corporate Status, a witness in or a party to and is successful, on the merits or otherwise, in any Proceeding, he or she, shall be indemnified against all Expenses actually and reasonably incurred by him or her or on his or her behalf in connection therewith. If Indemnitee is not wholly successful in such Proceeding but is successful, on the merits or otherwise, as to any Matter in such Proceeding, the Corporation shall indemnify Indemnitee against all Expenses actually and reasonably incurred by him or her or on his or her behalf relating to such Matter. The termination of any Matter in such a Proceeding by dismissal, with or without prejudice, shall be deemed to be a successful result as to such Matter.
Expenses Related to Proceedings
Section 8.3. . Indemnitee shall be advanced Expenses within ten days after requesting them to the fullest extent permitted by 145(e) of the DGCL.
Advancement of Expenses
Section 8.4. . To obtain indemnification Indemnitee shall submit to the Corporation a written request with such information as is reasonably available to Indemnitee. The Secretary of the Corporation shall promptly advise the Board of Directors of such request.
Request for Indemnification
Section 8.5. . If a Change of Control has not occurred prior to or at the time the request for Indemnification is sent, Indemnitee's entitlement to indemnification shall be determined in accordance with 145(d) of the DGCL. If entitlement to indemnification is to be determined by Independent Counsel, the Corporation shall furnish notice to Indemnitee within ten days after receipt of the request for indemnification, specifying the identity and address of Independent Counsel. Indemnitee may, within fourteen days after receipt of such written notice of selection, deliver to the Corporation a written objection to such selection. Such objection may be asserted only on the ground that the Independent Counsel so selected does not meet the requirements of Independent Counsel and the objection shall set forth with particularity the factual basis of such assertion. If there is an objection to the selection of Independent Counsel either the Corporation or Indemnitee may petition the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware or any other court of competent jurisdiction for a determination that the objection is without a reasonable basis and/or for the appointment of Independent Counsel selected by the court.
Determining Entitlement to Indemnification If No Change of Control
 
Section 8.6.  If a Change of Control has occurred prior to or at the time the request for indemnification is sent, Indemnitee's entitlement to indemnification shall be determined in a written opinion by Independent Counsel selected by Indemnitee. Indemnitee shall give the Corporation written notice advising of the identity and address of the Independent Counsel so selected. The Corporation may, within seven days after receipt of such written notice of selection, deliver to Indemnitee a written objection to such selection. Indemnitee may, within five days after the receipt of such objection from the Corporation, submit the name of another Independent Counsel and the Corporation may, within seven days after receipt of such written notice of selection, deliver to Indemnitee a written objection to such selection. Any objection is subject to the limitations in Section 8.5 of this Article VIII. Indemnitee may petition the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware or any other court of competent jurisdiction for a determination that the Corporation's objection to the first and/or second selection of Independent Counsel is without a reasonable, basis and/or for the appointment as Independent Counsel of a person selected by the court.
Determining Entitlement to Indemnification If Change of Control.
Section 8.7. . If a Change of Control has occurred prior to or at the time the request for indemnification is sent by Indemnitee, Indemnitee shall be presumed (except as otherwise expressly provided in this Article VIII) to be entitled to indemnification upon submission of a request for indemnification in accordance with Section 8.4 of this Article VIII, and thereafter the Corporation shall have the burden of proof to overcome the presumption in reaching a determination contrary to the presumption. The presumption shall be used by Independent Counsel as a basis for a determination of entitlement to indemnification unless the Corporation provides information sufficient to overcome such presumption by clear and convincing evidence or the investigation, review and analysis of Independent Counsel convinces him or her by clear and convincing evidence that the presumption should not apply.
Procedures of Independent Counsel
Except in the event that the determination of entitlement to indemnification is to be made by Independent Counsel if the person or persons empowered under Section 8.5 or 8.6 of this Article VIII to determine entitlement to indemnification shall not have made and furnished to Indemnitee in writing a determination within 60 days after receipt by the Corporation of the request therefor, the requisite determination of entitlement to indemnification shall be deemed to have been made and Indemnitee shall be entitled to such indemnification unless Indemnitee knowingly misrepresented a material fact in connection with the request for Indemnitee. The termination of any Proceeding or of any Matter therein, by judgment, order, settlement or conviction, or upon a plea of or its equivalent, shall not (except as otherwise expressly provided in this Article VIII) of itself adversely affect the right of Indemnitee to indemnification or create a presumption that (a) Indemnitee did not act in good faith and in a manner that he or she reasonably believed, in the case of conduct in his or her official capacity as a director of the Corporation, to be in the best interests of the Corporation or in all other cases that at least his or her conduct was not opposed to the Corporation's best interests, or (b) with respect to any criminal Proceeding, that Indemnitee had reasonable cause to believe that his or her conduct was unlawful.
nolo contendere
 
Section 8.8. . The Corporation shall pay any and all reasonable fees and expenses of Independent Counsel incurred acting pursuant to this Article VIII and in any proceeding to which it is a party or witness in respect of its investigation and written report and shall pay all reasonable fees and expenses incident to the procedures in which such Independent Counsel was selected or appointed. No Independent Counsel may serve if a timely objection has been made to his or her selection until a court has determined that such objection is without a reasonable basis.
Expenses of Independent Counsel
Section 8.9. . In the event that (a) a determination is made pursuant to Section 8.5 or 8.6 of this Article VIII that Indemnitee is not entitled to indemnification under this Article VIII, (b) advancement of Expenses is not timely made Pursuant to Section 8.3 of this Article VIII, (c) Independent Counsel has not made and delivered a written opinion determining the request for indemnification (i) within 90 days after being appointed by a court, (ii) within 90 days after objections to his of her selection have been overruled by a court or (iii) within 90 days after the time for the Corporation or Indemnitee to object to his or her selection or (d) payment of indemnification is not made within five days after a determination of entitlement to indemnification has been made or deemed to have been made pursuant to Section 8.5, 8.6 or 8.7 of this Article VIII, Indemnitee shall be entitled to an adjudication in any court of competent jurisdiction of his or her entitlement to such indemnification or advancement of Expenses. In the event that a determination shall have been made that Indemnitee is not entitled to indemnification, any judicial proceeding or arbitration commenced pursuant to this Section 8.9 shall be conducted in all respects as a trial on the merits, and Indemnitee shall not be prejudiced by reason of that adverse determination. If a Change of Control shall have occurred, in any judicial proceeding commenced pursuant to this Section 8.9, the Corporation shall have the burden of proving that Indemnitee is not entitled to indemnification or advancement of Expenses, as the case may be. If a determination shall have been made or deemed to have been made that Indemnitee is entitled to indemnification, the Corporation shall be bound by such determination in any judicial proceeding commenced pursuant to this Section 8.9, or otherwise, unless Indemnitee knowingly misrepresented a material fact in connection with the request for indemnification.
Trial De Novo
de novo
The Corporation shall be precluded from asserting in any judicial proceeding commenced pursuant to this Section 8.9 that the procedures and presumptions of this Article VIII are not valid, binding and enforceable and shall stipulate in any such court that the Corporation is bound by all provisions of this Article VIII. In the event that Indemnitee, Pursuant to this Section 8.9, seeks a judicial adjudication to enforce his or her rights under, or to recover damages for breach of this Article VIII, Indemnitee shall be entitled to recover from the Corporation, and shall be indemnified by the Corporation against any and all Expenses actually and reasonably incurred by him or her in such judicial adjudication, but only if he or she prevails therein. If it shall be determined in such judicial adjudication that Indemnitee, is entitled to receive part but not all of the indemnification or advancement of Expenses sought, the Expenses incurred by Indemnitee in connection with such judicial adjudication or arbitration shall be appropriately prorated.
 
Section 8.10. . The rights of indemnification and to receive advancement of Expenses as provided by this Article VIII shall not be deemed exclusive of any other rights to which Indemnitee may at any time be entitled under applicable law, the Certificate of Incorporation, these Bylaws, any agreement, a vote of stockholders, a resolution of the Board of Directors or otherwise. No amendment, alteration or repeal of this Article VIII or any provision hereof shall be effective, as to any Indemnitee for acts, events and circumstances that occurred in whole or in part, before such amendment, alteration or repeal. The provisions of this Article VIII shall continue as to an Indemnitee whose Corporate Status has ceased and shall inure to the benefit of his or her heirs, executors and administrators.
Non-Exclusivity
Section 8.11. . To the extent the Corporation maintains an insurance policy or policies providing liability insurance for directors or officers of the Corporation or of any other corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan or other enterprise which such person serves at the request of the Corporation. Indemnitee shall be covered by such policy or policies in accordance with its or their terms to the maximum extent of coverage available for any such director or officer under such policy or policies.
Insurance and Subrogation
In the event of any payment hereunder, the Corporation shall be subrogated to the extent of such payment to all the rights of recovery of Indemnitee, who shall execute all papers required and take all action necessary to secure such rights, including execution of such documents as are necessary to enable the Corporation to bring suit to enforce such rights.
The Corporation shall not be liable under this Article VIII to make any payment of amounts otherwise indemnifiable hereunder if, and to the extent that, Indemnitee has otherwise actually received such payment under any insurance policy, contract, agreement or otherwise.
Section 8.12. . If any provision or provisions of this Article VIII shall be held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable for any reason whatsoever, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby; and, to the fullest extent possible, the provisions of this Article VIII shall be construed so as to give effect to the intent manifested by the provision held invalid, illegal or unenforceable.
Severability
Section 8.13. . Notwithstanding any other provision of Article VIII, no person shall be entitled to indemnification or advancement of Expenses under this Article VIII with respect to any Proceeding, or any Matter therein, brought or made by such person against the Corporation.
Certain Persons Not Entitled to Indemnification
Section 8.14. . For purposes of this Article VIII:
Definitions
"Change of Control" means a change in control of the Corporation after the date of adoption of these Bylaws in any one of the following circumstances: (a) there shall have occurred an event required to be reported in response to Item 6(e) of Schedule 14A of Regulation 14A (or in response to any similar item on any similar schedule or form) promulgated under the Exchange Act, whether or not the Corporation is then subject to such reporting requirement; (b) any "person" (as such term is used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Exchange Act) shall have become the "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of securities of the Corporation representing 20% or more of the combined voting power of the Corporation's then outstanding voting securities without prior approval of at least two-thirds of the members of the Board of Directors in office immediately prior to such person's attaining such percentage interest; (c) the Corporation is a party to a merger, consolidation, sale of assets or other reorganization or a proxy contest as a consequence of which members of the Board of Directors in office immediately prior to such transaction or event constitute less than a majority of the Board of Directors thereafter or (d) during any period of two consecutive years, individuals who at the beginning of such period constituted the Board of Directors (including for this purpose any new director whose election or nomination for election by the Corporation's stockholders was approved by a vote of at least two-thirds of the directors then still in office who were directors at the beginning of such period) cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the Board of Directors.
 
"Corporate Status" describes the status of a person who is or was a director, Officer, or employee or agent of the Corporation or of any other corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan or other enterprise with which such person is or was serving at the request of the Corporation.
"DGCL" means the Delaware General Corporation Law, as currently in effect or as amended from time to time.
"Expenses" shall include all reasonable attorneys' fees, retainers, court costs, transcript costs, fees of experts, witness fees, travel expenses, duplicating costs, printing and binding costs, telephone charges, postage, delivery service fees, and all other disbursements or expenses of the types customarily incurred in connection with prosecuting, defending, preparing to prosecute or defend, investigating or being or preparing to be a witness in a Proceeding.
"Indemnitee" includes any person who is, or is threatened to be made, a witness in or a party to any Proceeding as described in Section 8.1 or 8.2 of this Section by reason of his or her Corporate Status.
"Independent Counsel" means a law firm, or member of a law firm that is experienced in matters of corporation law and neither presently is, nor in the five years previous to his or her selection or appointment has been, retained to represent: (a) the Corporation or Indemnitee in any matter material to either such party, (b) any other party to the Proceeding giving rise to a claim for indemnification hereunder or (c) the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of the Corporation representing 5% or more of the combined voting power of the Corporation's then outstanding voting securities.
"Matter" is a claim, a material issue, or a substantial request for relief.
"Proceeding" includes any action, suit, arbitration, alternate dispute resolution mechanism, investigation, administrative hearing or any other proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative, except one initiated by an Indemnitee pursuant to Section 8.9 of this Article VIII to enforce his or her rights under this Article VIII.
Section 8.15. . Any communication required or permitted to the Corporation shall be addressed to the Secretary of the Corporation and any such communication to Indemnitee shall be given in writing by depositing the same in the United States mail with postage thereon prepaid, addressed to the person to whom such notice is directed at the address of such person on the records of the Corporation, and such notice shall be deemed given at the time when the same shall be so deposited in the United States mail.
Notices
 
Section 8.16. . The right to be indemnified or to the advancement or reimbursement of Expenses (i) is a contract right based upon good and valuable consideration, pursuant to which Indemnitee may sue as if these provisions were set forth in a separate written contract between him or her and the Corporation, (ii) is and is intended to be retroactive and shall be available as to events occurring prior to the adoption of these provisions and (iii) shall continue after any rescission or restrictive modification of such provisions as to events occurring prior thereto.
Contractual Rights
Section 9.1. . The Board of Directors shall have the power to alter, amend or repeal these Bylaws or adopt new Bylaws by the affirmative vote of at least 80% of all directors then in office at any regular or special meeting of the Board of Directors called for that purpose, subject to repeal or change by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 80% of the voting power of all the shares of the Corporation entitled to vote in the election of directors, voting together as a single class.
Vote Requirements
Section 9.2. . A stockholder who wishes to propose to alter, amend or repeal these Bylaws or adopt new Bylaws must comply with this Section 9.2. A stockholder who wishes to include such business in a proxy statement prepared by the Corporation must also comply with Rule 14a-8 under the Exchange Act, as the same exists or may hereafter be amended or any other applicable laws as presently or hereafter in effect.
Stockholder Proposals
No proposal by a stockholder to alter, amend or repeal these Bylaws or adopt new Bylaws shall be voted upon at a meeting of stockholders unless such stockholder shall have delivered in a timely manner (as set forth in this Section 9.2) and in writing to the Secretary of the Corporation (i) notice of such proposal and the text of the proposed alteration, amendment or repeal, (ii) evidence, reasonably satisfactory to the Secretary of the Corporation, of such stockholder's status as such and of the number of shares of each class of capital stock of the Corporation beneficially owned by such stockholder and a description of any derivatives, hedged positions, synthetic and temporary ownership techniques, swaps, securities loans, timed purchases and other economic and voting interests or similar positions, securities or interests held by such stockholder or their affiliates or to which such stockholder or their affiliates is a party, (iii) a list of the names and addresses of all other beneficial owners of shares of the capital stock of the Corporation, if any, with whom such stockholder is acting in concert, and the number of shares of each class of the capital stock of the Corporation beneficially owned by each such beneficial owner and a description of any derivatives, hedged positions, synthetic and temporary ownership techniques, swaps, securities loans, timed purchases and other economic and voting interests or similar positions, securities or interests held by each such beneficial owner or their affiliates or to which each such beneficial owner or their affiliates is a party, (iv) a description of any interest that such stockholder has in the proposal, any benefits that such stockholder may derive from the outcome of the proposal and any agreements such stockholder has with other parties in connection with the proposal, and (v) an opinion of counsel, which counsel and the form and substance of which opinion shall be reasonably satisfactory to the Board of Directors of the Corporation, to the effect that the Bylaws (if any) resulting from the adoption of such proposal would not be in conflict with the Certificate of Incorporation or the laws of the State of Delaware.
 
To be timely in connection with an annual meeting of stockholders, such notice must be delivered to or mailed to and received at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not less than 90 days nor more than 180 days prior to the date on which the immediately preceding year's annual meeting of stockholders was held; provided, however, that in the event that the date of the annual meeting is changed by more than 30 days from such anniversary date, notice by the stockholder to be timely must be so received not later than the close of business on the seventh day the earlier of (i) the date on which notice of the date of the annual meeting was first mailed by or on behalf of the Corporation or (ii) public disclosure of the date of the annual meeting was first made by or on behalf of the Corporation. To be timely in connection with a special meeting of the stockholders, such notice must be delivered to or mailed to and received at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not less than 40 days nor more than 60 days prior to the date of such meeting; provided, however, that in the event that less than 50 days' notice or prior public disclosure of the date of the special meeting of the stockholders is given or made to the stockholders, such notice to be timely must be so received not later than the close of business on the seventh day following the earlier of (i) the date on which notice of the date of the special meeting was first mailed by or on behalf of the Corporation or (ii) public disclosure of the date of the special meeting was first made by or on behalf of the Corporation. In no event shall any adjournment or postponement of an annual or special meeting or the announcement thereof commence a new time period for the giving of the notice and other items required by this Section 9.2.
Within 30 days (or such shorter period that may exist prior to the date of the meeting) after such stockholder shall have delivered the aforesaid items to the Secretary of the Corporation, the Secretary and, with respect to the opinion of counsel, the Board of Directors of shall determine whether such items are reasonably satisfactory and shall notify such stockholder in writing of such determination. If such stockholder fails to submit a required item in the form or within the time indicated, or if the Secretary or the Board of Directors of the Corporation determines that the items to be ruled upon by it are not reasonably satisfactory, then such proposal by such stockholder may not be voted upon by the stockholders of the Corporation at such meeting of stockholders. The presiding person at each meeting of stockholders shall, if the facts warrant, declare to the meeting that a proposal made pursuant to this Article IX was made not in accordance with the procedure prescribed by these Bylaws and the defective proposal shall be disregarded.
 
Section 10.1. . Dividends upon the capital stock of the Corporation, subject to the provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation, if any, may be declared by the Board of Directors at any regular or special meeting and may be paid in cash, in property or in shares of the capital stock. Before payment of any dividend, there may be set aside out of any funds of the Corporation available for dividends such sum or sums as the Board of Directors from time to time, in its absolute discretion, deems proper as a reserve or reserves to meet contingencies, or for any proper purpose, and the Board of Directors may modify or abolish any such reserve.
Dividends
Section 10.2. . All checks or demands for money and notes of the Corporation shall be signed by such officer or officers or such other person or persons as the Board of Directors may from time to time designate.
Disbursements
Section 10.3. . The fiscal year of the Corporation shall be fixed by resolution of the Board of Directors.
Fiscal Year
Section 10.4. . The corporate seal shall have inscribed thereon the name of the Corporation, the year of its organization and the words "Corporate Seal Delaware." The seal may be used by causing it or a facsimile thereof to be impressed or affixed or reproduced.
Corporate Seal
Section 10.5. . "Beneficial owner" as used in these Bylaws means of the following:
Definition of Beneficial Owner
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
The purpose of the Fossil, Inc. 2010 Cash Incentive Plan (the "") is to advance the interests of Fossil, Inc. (the "") and its stockholders by (a) providing certain Employees of the Company and its Subsidiaries (as hereinafter defined) incentive compensation which is tied to the achievement of pre-established and objective performance goals, (b) identifying and rewarding superior performance and providing competitive compensation to attract, motivate, and maintain Employees who have outstanding skills and abilities and who achieve superior performance, and (c) fostering accountability and teamwork throughout the Company.
Plan
Company
The Plan is intended to provide Participants (as hereinafter defined) with incentive compensation which is not subject to the deduction limitation rules prescribed under Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the ""), and should be construed to the extent possible as providing for remuneration which is "performance-based compensation" within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code and the treasury regulations promulgated thereunder.
Code
For the purposes of this Plan, unless the context requires otherwise, the following terms shall have the meanings indicated:
"" means a grant of Incentive Compensation that may be paid to an Eligible Employee upon the satisfaction of specified Performance Goal(s) for a particular Performance Period; such Performance Period may be a period of less than a Fiscal Year (, six months, a ""), a period equal to a Fiscal Year (an ""), or a period in excess of a Fiscal Year (, three Fiscal Years, a "").
Award
e.g.
Short-Term Award
Annual Award
e.g.
Long-Term Award
"" means a Participant's base salary at the end of the applicable Performance Period, according to the books and records of the Company, excluding overtime, commissions, bonuses, disability pay, any Incentive Compensation paid to the Participant, or any other payment in the nature of a bonus or compensation paid under any other employee plan, contract, agreement, or program.
Base Pay
"" means the Board of Directors of the Company.
Board
"" means any segment or operating or administrative unit, including geographical unit, of the Company identified by the Committee as a separate business unit, or a Subsidiary identified by the Committee as a separate business unit.
Business Unit
"" means the Performance Goals established for each Business Unit in accordance with and below for any Performance Period.
Business Unit Performance Goals
Sections 4.1
4.2
"" or "" means the chief executive officer of the Company.
Chief Executive Officer
CEO
"" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
Code
 
"" means the Compensation Committee of the Board, which shall consist of two or more "outside directors" within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code.
Committee
"" means Fossil, Inc., a Delaware corporation.
Company
"" means the Performance Goals established for the Company in accordance with and below for any Performance Period.
Company Performance Goals
Sections 4.1
4.3
"" shall have the same meaning as the term "covered employee" (or its counterpart, as such term may be changed from time to time) contained in the treasury regulations promulgated under Section 162(m) of the Code, or their respective successor provision or provisions, provided that only an Employee for whom the limitation on deductibility for compensation pursuant to Section 162(m) of the Code is applicable shall be considered a "Covered Employee" for purposes of this Plan.
Covered Employee
"" means, for the Company or any Subsidiary, the net earnings of that entity before deductions by the entity for interest, income taxes, depreciation and amortization expenses.
EBITDA
"" shall mean any Employee of the Company or any Subsidiary.
Eligible Employee
"" means common law employee (as defined in accordance with the Regulations and Revenue Rulings then applicable under Section 3401(c) of the Code) of the Company or any Subsidiary of the Company.
Employee
"" means the fiscal year of the Company, with the first fiscal year of the Plan beginning on January 3, 2010 and ending on January 1, 2011.
Fiscal Year
"" means the compensation approved by the Committee to be paid to a Participant for any Performance Period under the Plan.
Incentive Compensation
"" means, for a Participant for any Performance Period, the maximum level of achievement of a set of Performance Goals required for Incentive Compensation to be paid which shall be a specified percentage of the Participant's Base Pay with respect to such set of Performance Goals, determined by the Committee in accordance with below.
Maximum Achievement
Section 4.1
"" means the Company's gross sales, the cost of sales (, product costs, markdowns, discounts, returns, shipping, royalties, etc.), operating expenses (, advertising, payroll, travel, entertainment, supplies, etc.), as such terms are understood under generally accepted accounting principles.
Operating Income
less
e.g.
less
e.g.
"" means an Employee of the Company or a Subsidiary who satisfies the eligibility requirements of of the Plan and who is selected by the Committee to participate in the Plan for any Performance Period.
Participant
Article III
"" means the Company Performance Goals and Business Unit Performance Goals established by the Committee for the Company and each Business Unit for any Performance Period, as provided in , and below.
Performance Goals
Sections 4.1
4.2
4.3
"" means the period selected by the Committee for the payment of Incentive Compensation. Unless the Committee, in its discretion, specifies other Performance Periods for the payment of Incentive Compensation hereunder, the Performance Period shall be a Fiscal Year.
Performance Period
 
"" means the Fossil, Inc. 2010 Cash Incentive Plan, as it may be amended from time to time.
Plan
"" means (i) any corporation in an unbroken chain of corporations beginning with the Company, if each of the corporations other than the last corporation in the unbroken chain owns stock possessing a majority of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock in one of the other corporations in the chain, (ii) any limited partnership, if the Company or any corporation described in item (i) above owns a majority of the general partnership interest and a majority of the limited partnership interests entitled to vote on the removal and replacement of the general partner, and (iii) any partnership or limited liability company, if the partners or members thereof are composed only of the Company, any corporation listed in item (i) above or any limited partnership listed in item (ii) above. "" means more than one of any such corporations, limited partnerships, partnerships, or limited liability company.
Subsidiary
Subsidiaries
"" means, for a Participant for any Performance Period, the level or range of achievement of a set of Performance Goals required for Incentive Compensation to be paid which shall be a specified percentage of the Participant's Base Pay with respect to such set of Performance Goals, determined by the Committee in accordance with below.
Target Achievement
Section 4.1
"" means, for a Participant for any Performance Period, the minimum level of achievement of a set of Performance Goals required for any Incentive Compensation to be paid which shall be a specified percentage of the Participant's Base Pay with respect to such set of Performance Goals, as determined by the Committee in accordance with below.
Threshold Achievement
Section 4.1
2.1 . Subject to the terms of this , the Plan shall be administered by the Committee. For each Performance Period, the Committee shall have full authority to (i) designate the Eligible Employees who shall participate in the Plan; (ii) establish the Performance Goals and achievement levels for each Participant pursuant to hereof; and (iii) establish and certify the achievement of the Performance Goals. The Committee may delegate its authority and responsibilities to the CEO; however, with respect to participation in the Plan by a Covered Employee, notwithstanding any provision of the Plan to the contrary, any decision concerning the awarding of Incentive Compensation hereunder (including, without limitation, establishment of Performance Goals, Threshold Achievement, Target Achievement, Maximum Achievement, and any other information necessary to calculate Incentive Compensation for such Covered Employee for such Performance Period) shall not be made by the CEO and shall be made exclusively by the members of the Committee who are at that time "outside" directors, as that term is used in Section 162(m) of the Code and the treasury regulations promulgated thereunder.
Committee's Authority
Article II
Article IV
2.2 . A majority of the Committee shall constitute a quorum, and the act of a majority of the members of the Committee present at a meeting at which a quorum is present shall be the act of the Committee.
Committee Action
2.3 . The Committee shall have the power, in its discretion, to take such actions as may be necessary to carry out the provisions and purposes of the Plan and shall have the authority to control and manage the operation and administration of the Plan. In order to effectuate the purposes of the Plan, the Committee shall have the discretionary power and authority to construe and interpret the Plan, to supply any omissions therein, to reconcile and correct any errors or inconsistencies, to decide any questions in the administration and application of the Plan, and to make equitable adjustments for any mistakes or errors made in the administration of the Plan. All such actions or determinations made by the Committee, and the application of rules and regulations to a particular case or issue by the Committee, in good faith, shall not be subject to review by anyone, but shall be final, binding and conclusive on all persons ever interested hereunder.
Committee's Powers
 
In construing the Plan and in exercising its power under provisions requiring the Committee's approval, the Committee shall attempt to ascertain the purpose of the provisions in question, and when the purpose is known or reasonably ascertainable, the purpose shall be given effect to the extent feasible. Likewise, the Committee is authorized to determine all questions with respect to the individual rights of all Participants under this Plan, including, but not limited to, all issues with respect to eligibility. The Committee shall have all powers necessary or appropriate to accomplish its duties under this Plan including, but not limited to, the power to:
 
(b) maintain complete and accurate records of all plan transactions and other data in the manner necessary for proper administration of the Plan;
(c) adopt rules of procedure and regulations necessary for the proper and efficient administration of the Plan, provided the rules and regulations are not inconsistent with the terms of the Plan as set out herein. All rules and decisions of the Committee shall be uniformly and consistently applied to all Participants in similar circumstances;
(d) enforce the terms of the Plan and the rules and regulations it adopts;
(e) review claims and render decisions on claims for benefits under the Plan;
(f) furnish the Company or the Participants, upon request, with information that the Company or the Participants may require for tax or other purposes;
(g) employ agents, attorneys, accountants or other persons (who also may be employed by or represent the Company) for such purposes as the Committee considers necessary or desirable in connection with its duties hereunder; and
(h) perform any and all other acts necessary or appropriate for the proper management and administration of the Plan.
For each Performance Period, the Committee shall select the particular Eligible Employees to whom Incentive Compensation may be awarded for such Performance Period; with respect to Covered Employees, such determination shall be made within the first ninety (90) days of such Performance Period (and in the case of a Performance Period that is less than twelve (12) months, such determination shall be made no later than the date 25% of the Performance Period has elapsed). To the extent permitted by the Committee, Employees who participate in the Plan may also participate in other incentive or benefit plans of the Company or any Subsidiary. Senior management of each Business Unit shall recommend to the Committee within not more than ninety (90) days after the beginning of a Performance Period (and in the case of a Performance Period less than a Fiscal Year, such determination shall be made no later than the date 25% of the Performance Period has elapsed) those Employees of such Business Unit to be eligible to participate in the Plan for such Performance Period; the Committee shall consider, but shall not be bound by, such recommendations. Notwithstanding any provision in this Plan to the contrary, the Committee may grant one or more Awards to an Eligible Employee at any time, and from time to time, and the Committee shall have the discretion to determine whether any such Award shall be a Short-Term Award, an Annual Award or a Long-Term Award.
 
4.1 . No later than the ninetieth (90
Establishment of Business Unit and Company Performance Goals
th
) day of the Performance Period (and in the case of a Performance Period less than a Fiscal Year, such determination shall be made no later than the date 25% of the Performance Period has elapsed), the Committee shall approve and deliver to the Chief Executive Officer of the Company a written report setting forth: (i) the Business Unit Performance Goals for the Performance Period, (ii) Company Performance Goals for the Performance Period, (iii) the Threshold Achievement, Target Achievement, and Maximum Achievement levels for Business Unit Performance Goals and Company Performance Goals for the Performance Period, (iv) with respect to each Participant, Incentive Compensation as a percentage of Base Pay for achievement of Threshold Achievement, Target Achievement, and Maximum Achievement levels and the relative weighting of each Performance Goal in determining the Participant's Incentive Compensation, and (v) a schedule setting forth payout opportunity as a percentage of Base Pay for Threshold Achievement, Target Achievement, and Maximum Achievement levels. The Committee may delegate to the CEO to establish and report to the Committee for each Participant the determinations under items (i) through (v) above. The Committee shall consider, but shall not be bound by, the recommendations and determinations of the CEO with respect to such items.
4.2 . The Business Unit Performance Goals established by the Committee for any Performance Period may differ among Participants and Business Units. For each Business Unit, the Business Unit Performance Goals shall be based on the performance of the Business Unit. Performance criteria for a Business Unit shall be related to the achievement of financial and operating objectives of the Business Unit, which, where applicable, shall be within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code, and consist of one or more or any combination of the following criteria: (a) Operating Income; (b) operating profit; (c) net profit; (d) net earnings (e) net sales or changes in net sales; (f) EBITDA or other measures of cash flow; (g) total stockholder return, stockholder return based on growth measures or the attainment by the shares of a specified value for a specified period of time, share price or share price appreciation; (h) earnings growth; (i) return on net assets, return on invested capital, or other return measures, including return or net return on working assets, equity, capital or net sales; (j) pre-tax profits; (k) operating margins; (l) growth in operating earnings or growth in earnings per share; (m) value of assets; (n) market share or market penetration with respect to specific designated products or product groups and/or specific geographic areas; (o) aggregate product price and other product measures; (p) expense or cost levels; (q) reduction of losses, loss ratios or expense ratios; (r) reduction in fixed assets; (s) operating cost management; (t) management of capital structure; (u) debt reduction; (v) productivity improvements; (w) inventory and/or receivables control; (x) satisfaction of specified business expansion goals or goals relating to acquisitions or divestitures; (y) customer satisfaction based on specified objective goals or a Company-sponsored customer survey; (z) employee diversity goals; (aa) employee turnover; (bb) specified objective social goals; (cc) safety record; (dd) store sales or productivity; or (ee) other objectively measurable factors directly tied to the performance of the Business Unit.
Categories of Business Unit Performance Goals
 
4.3 . The Company Performance Goals established by the Committee for any Performance Period shall relate to the achievement of predetermined financial and operating objectives for the Company and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis, which, where applicable, shall be within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code and consist of one or more or any combination of the factors set forth in above, as applied to the Company and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis. The Company Performance Goals may be established either on an absolute or on a per share basis reflecting dilution of shares as the Committee deems appropriate and, if the Committee so determines, net of or including cash dividends. The Company Performance Goals may also be established on a relative basis as compared to the performance of a published or special index deemed applicable by the Committee or a group of companies deemed by the Committee to be comparable to the Company.
Company Performance Goals
Section 4.2
4.4 . Within seventy-five (75) days after the end of each Performance Period, the senior management of the Company and each Business Unit shall report to the Committee the extent to which Company and Business Unit Performance Goals were achieved for the Performance Period. As soon as practicable following the finalization of the Company's financial statements or receipt of the Independent Auditor's Report on the Company's financial statements for a Performance Period consisting of one or more Fiscal Year's covered by the financial statements or other accounting finalizing of the Company's financial results for any Performance Period and receipt of the report of the Company and Business Unit senior management, the Committee shall certify in writing and, where applicable, in compliance with the requirements of Treasury Regulation 1.162-27 (and successor regulations thereto) in the case of any Award intended to qualify under Section 162(m) of the Code: (i) the extent to which the Company achieved its Company Performance Goals for the Performance Period, (ii) the extent to which each Business Unit achieved its Business Unit Performance Goals for the Performance Period, (iii) the calculation of the Participants' Incentive Compensation, and (iv) the determination by the Committee of the amount of Incentive Compensation, if any, to be paid to each Participant for the Performance Period. In determining whether Performance Goals have been achieved and Incentive Compensation is payable for a given Performance Period, generally accepted accounting principles to the extent applicable to the Performance Goal shall be applied on a basis consistent with prior periods, and such determinations shall be based on the calculations made by the Company and binding on each Participant. After the certification described in this the Committee may, in its sole and absolute discretion, decrease the Incentive Compensation to be paid to one or more Participants for such Performance Period.
Certification
Section
4.5 . If Threshold Achievement is attained with respect to a Performance Goal, then the Incentive Compensation that may be paid to such Participant with respect to such Performance Goal shall be based on a specified percentage of Base Pay and the Committee's predetermined schedule (which may allow for interpolation between achievement levels) setting forth the earned award as a percentage of Base Pay; provided that, as described in , the Committee may decrease (but never increase) the Incentive Compensation to be paid to one or more Participants for such Performance Period.
Earned Award Based on Level of Achievement
Section 4.4
4.6 Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary contained herein, the maximum Incentive Compensation payable to any Covered Employee with respect to any single Award shall not exceed $1,750,000.
Limitation on Total Incentive Compensation.
5.1 . Subject to the provisions of and below and except as otherwise provided herein, a Participant's Incentive Compensation for each Performance Period shall be paid as soon as practicable after the results for such Performance Period have been finalized, but in no event later than the date that is 2
Form and Time of Payment
Sections 5.2
5.3
 1
/
2
months immediately following the close of Fiscal Year in which such Performance Period ended. The payment shall be in the form of a cash lump sum.
 
5.2 . If a Participant's employment with the Company and all of its Subsidiaries is terminated voluntarily by the Participant or is terminated by his or her employer for any reason during a Performance Period or after a Performance Period but prior to the date of actual payment in accordance with above, then such Participant will immediately forfeit any right to receive any Incentive Compensation hereunder for such Performance Period.
Forfeiture Upon Termination Prior to Date of Payment
Section 5.1
5.3 . Any individual who is newly-hired or becomes an Eligible Employee during a Performance Period and who is selected by the Committee to participate in the Plan shall be eligible to receive a pro rata portion of the Incentive Compensation to which he or she could have been entitled if he or she had been employed for the full Performance Period, based on the number of full months during the Performance Period during which he or she is a Participant in the Plan and calculated on the basis of his or her Base Pay received for the Performance Period. Such Incentive Compensation shall be paid at the time and in the manner set forth in hereof.
Pro Rata Payment for New Hires; Promotions
Section 5.1
In the case of a promotion or transfer from a position where an individual was already a Participant for Incentive Compensation for a Performance Period to a position where the Participant is eligible for a higher or lower maximum amount of Incentive Compensation, the Participant shall complete his or her participation in the prior position until the end of the complete month containing his or her date of promotion or transfer, prior to participating in the Performance Period for the transferred or promoted position. The overall Incentive Compensation will be pro rated for both Performance Periods. In calculating the pro rated amount, (i) the prior Performance Period will be prorated using the Participant's Base Pay immediately prior to the date of promotion or transfer, and (ii) the subsequent Performance Period will be pro rated using the Participant's Base Pay at the end of the Performance Period. If a Participant is transferred to a lateral position (, the same job grade or level), then the Incentive Compensation will not be pro rated based on the lateral change in position.
i.e.
Participants who are eligible for participation at the beginning of a Performance Period, but who subsequently become ineligible to participate during the Performance Period will receive a pro rated portion of the Incentive Compensation based on the number of full months completed during such Performance Period.
6.1 . A Participant may not alienate, assign, pledge, encumber, transfer, sell or otherwise dispose of any rights or benefits awarded hereunder prior to the actual receipt thereof; and any attempt to alienate, assign, pledge, sell, transfer or assign prior to such receipt, or any levy, attachment, execution or similar process upon any such rights or benefits shall be null and void.
Non-Assignability
6.2 . Nothing in the Plan confers upon any Employee the right to continue in the employ of the Company or any Subsidiary, or interferes with or restricts in any way the right of the Company and its Subsidiaries to discharge any Employee at any time (subject to any contract rights of such Employee).
No Right To Continue In Employment
 
6.3 . No member of the Committee nor any officer or employee of the Company acting with or on behalf of the Committee, shall be personally liable for any action, determination, or interpretation taken or made in good faith with respect to the Plan, and all members of the Committee, and each officer or Employee of the Company acting with it or on its behalf shall, to the extent permitted by law, be fully indemnified and protected by the Company with respect to any such action, determination or interpretation.
Indemnification Of Committee
6.4 . The Plan shall at all times be entirely unfunded, and no provision shall at any time be made with respect to segregating assets of the Company for payment of any amounts hereunder. No Participant, beneficiary, or other person shall have any interest in any particular assets of the Company by reason of the right to receive Incentive Compensation under the Plan. Participants and beneficiaries shall have only the rights of a general unsecured creditor of the Company.
No Plan Funding
6.5 . This Plan shall be construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Delaware and the rights and obligations created hereby shall be governed by the laws of the State of Delaware.
Governing Law
6.6 . This Plan shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the Company, its successors and assigns, and the Participants, and their heirs, assigns, and personal representatives.
Binding Effect
6.7 . The captions used in this Plan are for convenience only and shall not be construed in interpreting the Plan. Whenever the context so requires, the masculine shall include the feminine and neuter, and the singular shall also include the plural, and conversely.
Construction of Plan
6.8 . This Plan constitutes the final and complete expression of agreement with respect to the subject matter hereof.
Integrated Plan
6.9 . The Company (and, where applicable, its Subsidiaries) shall have the power and the right to deduct or withhold, or require a Participant to remit to the Company, an amount sufficient to satisfy applicable taxes required by law to be withheld with respect to any payment of any Incentive Compensation to a Participant.
Tax Requirements
6.10 . In the event of a merger, consolidation, sale of assets, reorganization or other business combination in which the Company is not the surviving or continuing corporation, or pursuant to which shares of the Company's common stock would be converted into cash, securities or other property (other than a merger of the Company in which the holders of the Company's Common Stock immediately prior to the merger have the same proportionate ownership of Common Stock of the surviving corporation immediately after the merger), the Committee shall adjust the Performance Goals and achievement levels so that the Incentive Compensation amounts to which a Participant is entitled are not adversely affected by such events.
Reorganization, Merger or Consolidation
The Committee may at any time and from time to time, without the consent of the Participants, alter, amend, revise, suspend, or discontinue the Plan in whole or in part; provided that any amendment that modifies any preestablished Performance Goal for a Participant who is a Covered Employee (or his successor(s), as may be applicable) under this Plan with respect to any particular Performance Period may only be effected on or prior to that date which is ninety (90) days following the commencement of such Performance Period (and in the case of a Performance Period less than a Fiscal Year, such determination shall be made no later than the date 25% of the Performance Period has elapsed). In addition, the Board shall have the power to discontinue the Plan in whole or in part and amend the Plan in any manner advisable in order for Incentive Compensation granted under the Plan to qualify as "performance-based" compensation under Section 162(m) of the Code (including amendments as a result of changes to Section 162(m) or the regulations thereunder to permit greater flexibility with respect to Incentive Compensation granted under the Plan).
 
Neither the adoption of this Plan nor any action of the Board or the Committee shall be deemed to give any Participant any right to be granted Incentive Compensation or any other rights. In addition, nothing contained in this Plan and no action taken pursuant to its provisions shall be construed to (a) give any Participant any right to any compensation, except as expressly provided herein; (b) be evidence of any agreement, contract or understanding, express or implied, that the Company or any Subsidiary will employ a Participant in any particular position; (c) give any Participant any right, title, or interest whatsoever in or to any investments which the Company may make to aid it in meeting its obligations hereunder; or (d) create a trust of any kind or a fiduciary relationship between the Company and a Participant or any other person.
The effective date of this Plan shall be as of January 3, 2010, subject to stockholder approval. The material terms of this Plan shall be disclosed to the stockholders of the Company for approval in accordance with Section 162(m) of the Code. This Plan and any benefits granted hereunder shall be null and void if stockholder approval is not obtained at the next annual meeting of stockholders of the Company, and no award or payment of Incentive Compensation under this Plan to any Covered Employee shall be made unless such stockholder approval is obtained. This Plan shall remain in effect until it is terminated by the Committee or the Board.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Plan has been adopted this 24th day of March, 2010, effective January 3, 2010.
 
 


