FILE:FOSL/FOSL-8K-20110812150541.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On August 11, 2011, Gary Kusin was appointed to the Board of Directors (the "Board") of Fossil, Inc. (the "Company"), effective immediately.
Mr. Kusin is not a party to any arrangement or understanding with any person pursuant to which he was appointed as a director, nor is he a party to any transactions required to be disclosed under Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K involving the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
For his service on the Board, Mr. Kusin will receive the Company's compensation for a non-employee director. Such compensation currently consists of an annual retainer of $40,000, a fee of $1,500 for each in-person meeting, and a fee of $1,000 for each telephonic meeting in excess of one hour. In addition, pursuant to the Company's 2008 Long-Term Incentive Plan, Mr. Kusin received a grant of restricted stock units as of the effective date of his appointment. On August 11, 2011, Mr. Kusin was granted restricted stock units equal to the number of shares of common stock having an aggregate fair market value of $100,000, pro-rated to reflect the number of days between the date of his appointment and the one year anniversary of the 2011 Annual Stockholders Meeting. Mr. Kusin would also receive an additional grant of restricted stock units equal to the number of shares of common stock having an aggregate fair market value of $100,000 on the date of the Company's 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders if he is then serving as a non-employee director. The restricted stock units granted to Mr. Kusin vest and are convertible into shares of common stock (i) upon the first anniversary of the date of grant for the restricted stock units granted upon his appointment to the Board; and (ii) upon the earlier of the first anniversary of the date of grant or the first Annual Stockholders Meeting following the date of grant for the restricted stock units to be granted on the date of the 2012 Annual Stockholders Meeting; provided that Mr. Kusin is providing services to the Company or its subsidiaries on such date.
On August 11, 2011, the Company issued a press release announcing the appointment of Mr. Kusin, which is incorporated herein by reference. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date:    August 12, 2011
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
Richardson, TX. August 11, 2011  Fossil, Inc. (Nasdaq GS: FOSL) (the "Company") announced the appointment of Gary Kusin to its Board of Directors effective today. With the appointment, the size of the Company's Board of Directors is ten (10) members, including eight (8) independent directors and two (2) members of senior management.
Kosta Kartsotis, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the Company said, "We are very excited to have Gary join our Board of Directors. Gary's significant entrepreneurial and leadership experience will be invaluable to us as we continue to execute our growth strategies."
Mr. Kusin is a Senior Advisor to TPG, a private equity firm based in San Francisco and Ft. Worth. He is former president and chief executive officer of FedEx Kinko's, today operating as FedEx Office. Prior to joining Kinko's in 2001, Mr. Kusin was chief executive officer of HQ Global Workplaces, the world leader in serviced offices, now a part of Regus. In 1995, Mr. Kusin co-founded Laura Mercier Cosmetics, a makeup line now sold through leading specialty and department stores worldwide, which he sold to Neiman-Marcus in 1998. Prior to co-founding Laura Mercier Cosmetics, Mr. Kusin was president and co-founder of Babbage's Inc., the leading consumer software specialty store chain in the US, which now operates under the name GameStop (NYSE: GME). Earlier in his career, he was vice president and general merchandise manager for the Sanger-Harris division of Federated Department Stores, today operating as Macy's.
An . magazine "Entrepreneur of Year" award winner, Mr. Kusin serves on the board of directors of Petco, Sabre Holdings, American Tire Distributors and Republic- a UK based men's and women's fashion apparel retailer. He earned a BA from the University of Texas at Austin and a MBA from the Harvard Business School.
Inc
About Fossil
Fossil is a global design, marketing and distribution company that specializes in consumer fashion accessories. The Company's principal offerings include an extensive line of men's and women's fashion watches and jewelry sold under proprietary and licensed brands, handbags, small leather goods, belts, sunglasses, soft accessories, shoes, and clothing. In the watch and jewelry product category, the Company's
 
offerings include a diverse portfolio of globally recognized proprietary and licensed brand names under which its products are marketed. The Company's extensive range of accessories products, brands, distribution channels and price points allows it to target style-conscious consumers across a wide age spectrum on a global basis. The Company's products are sold to department stores, specialty retail stores, and specialty watch and jewelry stores in the U.S. in approximately 120 countries worldwide through 23 company-owned foreign sales subsidiaries and a network of approximately 60 independent distributors. The Company also distributes its products in over 360 company-owned and operated retail stores and through international e-commerce websites and the Company's U.S. e-commerce website at , where certain product, press release and SEC filing information concerning the Company is also available.
www.fossil.com
 


