FILE:FOSL/FOSL-8K-20120917154529.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (seeGeneral Instruction A.2. below):
 
o
           
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
           
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02               Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
On September 13, 2012, Fossil, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing that, in March 2013, Michael L. Kovar will retire from his position as the Company's Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer in order to pursue personal interests. Mr. Kovar's departure is not the result of any disagreement with the Company regarding its operations, policies or practices.
 
A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
 
Item 9.
01
                                            
Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(d) Exhibits
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
Richardson, TX. September 13, 2012 -- Fossil, Inc. (Nasdaq GS: FOSL) (the "Company") today announced that Michael L. Kovar will retire as Chief Financial Officer in March 2013.  Mr. Kovar joined the Company in March 2000 and was promoted to Chief Financial Officer in October 2000.  The Company is commencing a search for his successor.
 
"Mike has been an integral part of our executive team as we have driven the Company's sales and earnings growth dramatically over the last twelve years," said Mr. Kosta Kartsotis, the Company's Chairman and Chief Executive officer.
 
"Leading the finance function at Fossil has been a wonderful experience, both personally and professionally.  Fossil's prospects have never been brighter and I look forward to watching its continued success as I pursue personal interests and spend more time with my family," said Mr. Kovar.
 
About Fossil
 
Fossil is a global design, marketing and distribution company that specializes in consumer fashion accessories.  The Company's principal offerings include an extensive line of men's and women's fashion watches and jewelry sold under proprietary and licensed brands, handbags, small leather goods, belts, sunglasses, soft accessories, shoes and clothing. In the watch and jewelry product categories, the Company's offerings include a diverse portfolio of globally recognized proprietary and licensed brand names under which its products are marketed. The Company's extensive range of accessory products, brands, distribution channels and price points allows it to target style-conscious consumers across a wide age spectrum on a global basis.  The Company's products are sold to department stores, specialty retail stores and specialty watch and jewelry stores in the U.S. and in approximately 120 countries worldwide through 26 Company-owned foreign sales subsidiaries and a network of approximately 60 independent distributors.  The Company also distributes its products in over 400 Company-owned and operated retail stores and through international e-commerce websites and the Company's U.S. e-commerce website at www.fossil.com, where certain product, press release and SEC filing information concerning the Company are also available.
 


