FILE:FOSL/FOSL-8K-20120222113204.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On February 20, 2012, the Board of Directors (the "Board") of Fossil, Inc. (the "Company") elected Diane Neal as a director of the Company, effective immediately, and also appointed her to the Compensation Committee of the Board.
Ms. Neal is not a party to any arrangement or understanding with any person pursuant to which she was appointed as a director, nor is she a party to any transactions required to be disclosed under Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K involving the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
For her service on the Board, Ms. Neal will receive the Company's standard compensation for a non-employee director, which currently consists of an annual retainer of $52,500, a fee of $1,500 for each in-person Board meeting, and a fee of $1,000 for each telephonic Board meeting in excess of one hour. For her service on the Compensation Committee, Ms. Neal will receive a fee of $1,250 for each in-person Compensation Committee meeting and a fee of $1,000 for each telephonic Compensation Committee meeting in excess of one hour.
In addition, pursuant to the Company's 2008 Long-Term Incentive Plan, as amended, Ms. Neal received a grant of restricted stock units on February 20, 2012 equal to the number of shares of the Company's common stock having an aggregate fair market value of $100,000, pro-rated to reflect the number of days between the date of her appointment and the one year anniversary of the Company's 2011 Annual Stockholders Meeting. Ms. Neal will receive additional grants of restricted stock units that are automatically awarded to the Company's outside directors on the date of the Company's annual stockholders meeting equal to the number of shares of the Company's common stock having an aggregate fair market value of $120,000 if she is then serving as a non-employee director. The restricted stock units granted to Ms. Neal vest and are convertible into shares of the Company's common stock (i) upon the first anniversary of the date of grant for the restricted stock units granted to her upon her appointment to the Board; and (ii) upon the earlier of the first anniversary of the date of grant or the first annual stockholders meeting following the date of grant for the restricted stock units granted on the date of the Company's annual stockholders meeting; provided, in each case, that Ms. Neal is providing services to the Company or its subsidiaries on such date.
On February 21, 2012, the Company issued a press release announcing the appointment of Ms. Neal, which is incorporated herein by reference. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: February 22, 2012
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
Richardson, TX. February 21, 2012Fossil, Inc. (Nasdaq GS: FOSL) (the "Company") announced the appointment of Diane Neal to its Board of Directors effective February 20, 2012. With the appointment, the Company's Board of Directors consists of eleven (11) members, including nine (9) independent directors, one (1) former member of senior management and one (1) current member of senior management. Ms. Neal will serve on the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors.
Kosta Kartsotis, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the Company said, "We are very pleased to add Diane to our Board. Her extensive experience in retailing and merchandising will be invaluable to us as we continue to expand our FOSSIL accessories and multi-brand watch businesses globally."
Ms. Neal most recently served as CEO of Bath & Body Works. She resigned from that position in July 2011 to relocate to San Francisco for personal reasons. Ms. Neal joined Bath & Body Works in November 2006 as President and COO and held those positions until her promotion to CEO in June 2007. Prior to joining Bath & Body Works, Ms. Neal served as President of the Outlet Division for Gap Inc., where she was responsible for the outlet business for all three Gap Inc. brands. Prior to joining Gap Inc., Ms. Neal spent 22 years with Target Corporation in multiple divisions, including Dayton's Department Stores (now Macy's), Mervyn's, Target Sourcing Services and Target Stores. During her career with Target Corporation, Ms. Neal spent 16 years at Target Stores, where she held multiple positions and responsibilities, including merchandising, planning, distribution and sourcing. Ms. Neal was promoted to President of Mervyn's in 2001 and served in that capacity until 2004, when she joined Gap Inc.
About Fossil
Fossil is a global design, marketing and distribution company that specializes in consumer fashion accessories. The Company's principal offerings include an extensive line of men's and women's fashion watches and jewelry sold under proprietary and licensed brands, handbags, small leather goods, belts, sunglasses, soft accessories, shoes, and clothing. In the watch and jewelry product category, the Company's offerings include a diverse portfolio of globally recognized proprietary and licensed brand names under which its products are marketed. The Company's extensive range of accessories products, brands, distribution channels and price points allows it to target style-conscious consumers across a wide age spectrum on a global
 
basis. The Company's products are sold to department stores, specialty retail stores, and specialty watch and jewelry stores in the U.S. and in approximately 120 countries worldwide through 22 company-owned foreign sales subsidiaries and a network of approximately 60 independent distributors. The Company also distributes its products in over 390 company-owned and operated retail stores and through international e-commerce websites and the Company's U.S. e-commerce website at , where certain product, press release and SEC filing information concerning the Company is also available.
www.fossil.com
 


