FILE:FOSL/FOSL-8K-20120817161154.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02.
Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
The Board of Directors (the "Board") of Fossil, Inc. (the "Company") has appointed John A. White to serve as Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of the Company, effective September 4, 2012. Mr. White will report directly to the Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Kosta N. Kartsotis.
Mr. White, age 40, most recently served as President for Pandora North America, a division of Pandora, A/S ("Pandora"). Pandora is a global jewelry company headquartered in Denmark. Mr. White joined Pandora in March 2007 and held various roles including General Manager and Managing Director until his promotion to President for North America in October 2010. Prior to joining Pandora, Mr. White served as a Strategy Consultant for the Operations and Supply Chain Strategy and Design Team for Booz | Allen | Hamilton from April 2006 until March 2007.
Mr. White will be an at-will employee of the Company. In connection with the appointment of Mr. White, the Board has approved a base salary of $600,000. Mr. White will receive a sign on bonus of $100,000. In March 2013, Mr. White will receive a cash bonus of 100% of his base salary, pro-rated based on the number of full calendar months in the 2012 calendar year during which he serves as Executive Vice President and Chief Operating officer, provided that he is continuously employed by the Company until the date of payment. On October 15, 2012, Mr. White will receive (i) a grant of restricted stock units pursuant to the Company's 2008 Long Term Incentive Plan (the "2008 Plan") equal to the number of shares of the Company's common stock having an aggregate fair market value of $367,500 on October 15, 2012 and (ii) stock appreciation rights settled in common stock of the Company pursuant to the 2008 Plan, the strike price of which will be the fair market value of the common stock on October 15, 2012, having a Black-Scholes value of $367,500. One-third of each award will vest annually on October 15 in each of 2013, 2014 and 2015, provided that Mr. White is continuously employed by the Company through each such anniversary date. Mr. White will also be eligible to receive reimbursement for up to $275,000 in relocation expenses in connection with his move from Maryland to the Dallas, Texas area.
Mr. White is not a party to any transaction described in Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K involving the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
On August 15, 2012, the Company issued a press release announcing the appointment of Mr. White. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
Richardson, TX. August 15, 2012  Fossil, Inc. (Nasdaq GS: FOSL) (the "Company") today announced the appointment of John A. White as Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer effective September 4, 2012. Mr. White will be responsible for the Company's supply chain, distribution and warehousing, legal and information technology operations, with a focus on long-term strategy. Mr. White will report directly to Kosta N. Kartsotis, Chief Executive Officer.
"We are very excited to have John join our executive team. His track record of driving strategic improvements and operational excellence across large organizations will be invaluable to us as we continue our global expansion", said Mr. Kartsotis.
Mr. White most recently served as President for Pandora North America, a division of Pandora, A/S ("Pandora"). Pandora is a global jewelry company headquartered in Denmark. Mr. White joined Pandora in March 2007 and held various roles including General Manager and Managing Director until his promotion to President, North America in October 2010. Prior to joining Pandora, Mr. White served as a Strategy Consultant for the Operations and Supply Chain Strategy and Design Team for Booz | Allen | Hamilton from April 2006 until March 2007.
Mr. White received his Bachelor of Science in Engineering from the University of Maryland and a Masters of Business Administration from Marylhurst University.
Safe Harbor
Certain statements contained herein that are not historical facts constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and involve a number of risks and uncertainties. The actual results of the future events described in such forward-looking statements could differ materially from those stated in such forward-looking statements. Among the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially are: changes in economic trends and financial performance, changes in consumer demands, tastes and fashion trends, lower levels of consumer spending resulting from a general
economic downturn, shifts in market demand resulting in inventory risks, changes in foreign currency exchange rates, difficulties in integrating the recently acquired Skagen businesses, and the outcome of current and possible future litigation, as well as the risks and uncertainties set forth in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011 and its Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC").
About Fossil
Fossil is a global design, marketing and distribution company that specializes in consumer fashion accessories. The Company's principal offerings include an extensive line of men's and women's fashion watches and jewelry sold under proprietary and licensed brands, handbags, small leather goods, belts, sunglasses, soft accessories, shoes and clothing. In the watch and jewelry product categories, the Company's offerings include a diverse portfolio of globally recognized proprietary and licensed brand names under which its products are marketed. The Company's extensive range of accessory products, brands, distribution channels and price points allows it to target style-conscious consumers across a wide age spectrum on a global basis. The Company's products are sold to department stores, specialty retail stores and specialty watch and jewelry stores in the U.S. and in approximately 120 countries worldwide through 26 Company-owned foreign sales subsidiaries and a network of approximately 60 independent distributors. The Company also distributes its products in over 400 Company-owned and operated retail stores and through international e-commerce websites and the Company's U.S. e-commerce website at , where certain product, press release and SEC filing information concerning the Company are also available.
www.fossil.com
 


