FILE:FOSL/FOSL-8K-20120417144453.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02.
Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On April 16, 2012, Thomas M. Nealon was appointed to the Board of Directors (the "Board") of Fossil, Inc. (the "Company"), effective immediately. Mr. Nealon has not been appointed to any committees of the Board.
Mr. Nealon is not a party to any arrangement or understanding with any person pursuant to which he was appointed as a director, nor is he a party to any transactions required to be disclosed under Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K involving the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
For his service on the Board, Mr. Nealon will receive the Company's compensation for a non-employee director. Such compensation currently consists of an annual retainer of $52,500, a fee of $1,500 for each in-person meeting, and a fee of $1,000 for each telephonic meeting in excess of one hour. The annual retainer to be paid to Mr. Nealon is paid on a quarterly basis in arrears and shall be pro-rated for the second quarter to reflect the number of days between the date of his appointment and June 30, 2012, the end of the second calendar quarter.
In addition, pursuant to the Company's 2008 Long-Term Incentive Plan, as amended, Mr. Nealon received a grant of restricted stock units as of the effective date of his appointment. On April 16, 2012, Mr. Nealon was granted restricted stock units equal to the number of shares of common stock having an aggregate fair market value of $100,000, pro-rated to reflect the number of days between the date of his appointment and the one year anniversary of the 2011 Annual Stockholders Meeting. Mr. Nealon would also receive an additional grant of restricted stock units equal to the number of shares of common stock having an aggregate fair market value of $120,000 on the date of the Company's 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders if he is then serving as a non-employee director. The restricted stock units granted to Mr. Nealon vest and are convertible into shares of common stock (i) upon the first anniversary of the date of grant for the restricted stock units granted upon his appointment to the Board; and (ii) upon the earlier of the first anniversary of the date of grant or the first Annual Stockholders Meeting following the date of grant for the restricted stock units to be granted on the date of the 2012 Annual Stockholders Meeting; provided that Mr. Nealon is providing services to the Company or its subsidiaries on such date.
On April 16, 2012, the Company issued a press release announcing the appointment of Mr. Nealon, which is incorporated herein by reference. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: April 17, 2012
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
Richardson, TX. April 16, 2012  Fossil, Inc. (Nasdaq GS: FOSL) (the "Company") announced the appointment of Thomas M. Nealon to its Board of Directors effective today. With the appointment, the Company's Board of Directors consists of twelve members, including ten independent directors, one former member of senior management and one current member of senior management.
Kosta Kartsotis, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the Company said, "We are tremendously pleased to have Tom join our Board. As we continue to expand our business globally, Tom's significant experience in corporate strategy and information technology in the retail industry will be very beneficial to us."
Mr. Nealon is currently a member of the Board of Directors of Southwest Airlines Co. Mr. Nealon most recently served as Group Executive Vice President of J. C. Penney Company, Inc. He resigned from that position effective December 1, 2011 for personal reasons. Mr. Nealon joined J. C. Penney in 2006 as Chief Information Officer, and held that position until his promotion to Group Executive Vice President in 2010. Prior to joining J. C. Penney, Mr. Nealon was with Electronic Data Systems, now a division of the Hewlett-Packard Company, from 2004 to 2006 and served on assignment as Senior Vice President and Chief Information Officer for Southwest Airlines Co. Prior to joining Electronic Data Systems, Mr. Nealon was a partner from 2000 to 2004 at the Feld Group, an IT management consultancy firm later acquired by Electronic Data Systems. Mr. Nealon also spent 15 years at Frito-Lay, Inc., a division of PepsiCo, serving in critical roles across the information technology organization, including two years as Chief Information Officer.
About Fossil
Fossil is a global design, marketing and distribution company that specializes in consumer fashion accessories. The Company's principal offerings include an extensive line of men's and women's fashion watches and jewelry sold under proprietary and licensed brands, handbags, small leather goods, belts, sunglasses, soft accessories, shoes, and clothing. In the watch and jewelry product category, the Company's offerings include a diverse portfolio of globally recognized proprietary and licensed brand names under which its products are marketed. The Company's extensive range of accessories products, brands, distribution channels and price points allows it to target style-conscious consumers across a wide age spectrum on a global basis. The Company's products are sold to department stores, specialty retail stores, and specialty watch and jewelry stores in the U.S. and in approximately 120 countries worldwide through 22 company-owned foreign sales subsidiaries and a network of approximately 60 independent distributors. The Company also distributes its products in over 390 company-owned and operated retail stores and through international e-commerce websites and the Company's U.S. e-commerce website at , where certain product, press release and SEC filing information concerning the Company is also available.
www.fossil.com
 


