FILE:FOSL/FOSL-8K-20121113090025.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
o
    Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
    Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Item 5.02.
    
Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
 
The Board of Directors (the "Board") of Fossil, Inc. (the "Company") has appointed Dennis R. Secor to serve as Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer of the Company, effective December 10, 2012.  Mr. Secor will report directly to the Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Kosta N. Kartsotis.
 
As previously announced, Mike L. Kovar, our current Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer, will retire from the Company in March 2013.  Effective with the appointment of Mr. Secor on December 10, 2012, Mr. Kovar will resign as Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer and assist Mr. Secor as he transitions into his new role with the Company.
 
Mr. Secor, age 50, has served as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer for Guess?, Inc.  since July 2006.  Guess? designs, markets, distributes and licenses a lifestyle collection of contemporary apparel, denim, handbags, watches, footwear and other fashion accessories.  Prior to joining Guess?, Mr. Secor served as Vice President and Chief Financial Officer for Electronic Arts (Canada), Inc.  from August 2004 until July 2006.  Electronic Arts develops, markets, publishes, and distributes game software content and services for video game consoles, personal computers, mobile phones, tablets and electronic readers, and the Internet.
 
Mr. Secor will be an at-will employee of the Company.  In connection with the appointment of Mr. Secor, the Board has approved a base salary of $500,000.  Mr. Secor will receive a sign on bonus of $200,000.  On January 15, 2013, Mr. Secor will receive (i) a grant of restricted stock units pursuant to the Company's 2008 Long Term Incentive Plan (the "2008 Plan") equal to the number of shares of the Company's common stock having an aggregate fair market value of $306,250 on January 15, 2013 and (ii) stock appreciation rights settled in common stock of the Company pursuant to the 2008 Plan, with a strike price equal to the fair market value of the common stock on January 15, 2013 and having a Black-Scholes value of $306,250.  One-third of each award will vest annually on January 15 in each of 2014, 2015 and 2016, provided that Mr. Secor is continuously employed by the Company through each such anniversary date. Mr. Secor will also be eligible to receive reimbursement for up to $275,000 in relocation expenses in connection with his move from California to the Dallas, Texas area.
 
Mr. Secor is not a party to any transaction described in Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K involving the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
 
On November 8, 2012, the Company issued a press release announcing the appointment of Mr. Secor.  A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this report
.
 
Item 9.01   Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d)
                                
Exhibits
 
99.1
                       
Press Release, dated November 8, 2012, announcing the appointment of Dennis R. Secor.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
Richardson, TX. November 8, 2012  Fossil, Inc. (Nasdaq GS: FOSL) (the "Company") today announced the appointment of Dennis R. Secor as Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer effective December 10, 2012.  Mr. Secor will report directly to Kosta N. Kartsotis, Chief Executive Officer.
 
"We are very excited to have Dennis join our team.  He brings diverse industry and international experience along with strong business and customer focus.  Dennis has a proven ability to lead teams and drive strategic growth initiatives which make him an excellent fit for Fossil at this stage of our lifecycle," said Mr. Kartsotis.
 
As previously announced, Mike L. Kovar, the Company's current Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer, will retire from the Company in March 2013.  Effective with the appointment of Mr. Secor on December 10, 2012, Mr. Kovar will resign as Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer and assist Mr. Secor as he transitions into his new role with the Company.
 
Mr. Secor currently serves as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer for Guess?, Inc.  Guess? designs, markets, distributes and licenses a lifestyle collection of contemporary apparel, denim, handbags, watches, footwear and other fashion accessories.  Guess? is publicly traded and is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol GES.  Mr. Secor joined Guess? in July 2006.  Prior to joining Guess?, Mr. Secor served as Vice President and Chief Financial Officer for Electronic Arts (Canada), Inc.  from August 2004 until July 2006.  Electronic Arts develops, markets, publishes, and distributes game software content and services for video game consoles, personal computers, mobile phones, tablets and electronic readers, and the Internet.
 
Mr. Secor received his Bachelor of Business Administration  Accounting from the University of San Diego.
 
Safe Harbor
 
Certain statements contained herein that are not historical facts constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and involve a number of risks and
 
uncertainties.  The actual results of the future events described in such forward-looking statements could differ materially from those stated in such forward-looking statements.  Among the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially are: changes in economic trends and financial performance, changes in consumer demands, tastes and fashion trends, lower levels of consumer spending resulting from a general economic downturn, shifts in market demand resulting in inventory risks, changes in foreign currency exchange rates, difficulties in integrating the recently acquired Skagen Designs, Ltd. businesses, and the outcome of current and possible future litigation, as well as the risks and uncertainties set forth in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011 and its Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC").
 
About Fossil
 
Fossil is a global design, marketing and distribution company that specializes in consumer fashion accessories.  The Company's principal offerings include an extensive line of men's and women's fashion watches and jewelry sold under proprietary and licensed brands, handbags, small leather goods, belts, sunglasses, soft accessories, shoes and clothing. In the watch and jewelry product categories, the Company's offerings include a diverse portfolio of globally recognized proprietary and licensed brand names under which its products are marketed. The Company's extensive range of accessory products, brands, distribution channels and price points allows it to target style-conscious consumers across a wide age spectrum on a global basis.  The Company's products are sold to department stores, specialty retail stores and specialty watch and jewelry stores in the U.S. and in approximately 120 countries worldwide through 23 Company-owned foreign sales subsidiaries and a network of approximately 60 independent distributors.  The Company also distributes its products in over 400 Company-owned and operated retail stores and through international e-commerce websites and the Company's U.S. e-commerce website at www.fossil.com, where certain product, press release and SEC filing information concerning the Company are also available.


