FILE:FOSL/FOSL-8K-20121010121317.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (seeGeneral Instruction A.2. below):
 
o
    Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
    Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02              Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
On October 9, 2012, Fossil, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing that on October 26, 2012, Mark Quick will retire from his position as the Company's Vice Chairman and will be appointed to the Company's Board of Directors effective October 26, 2012. Mr. Quick will not be appointed to any committees of the Board on October 26, 2012.  Mr. Quick's departure is not the result of any disagreement with the Company regarding its operations, policies or practices.  A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
 
Mr. Quick is not a party to any arrangement or understanding with any person pursuant to which he was appointed as a director, nor is he a party to any transactions required to be disclosed under Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K involving the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
 
For his service on the Board, Mr. Quick will receive the Company's compensation for a non-employee director. Such compensation currently consists of an annual retainer of $52,500, a fee of $1,500 for each in-person meeting, and a fee of $1,000 for each telephonic meeting in excess of one hour. The annual retainer to be paid to Mr. Quick is paid on a quarterly basis in arrears and shall be pro-rated for the fourth quarter to reflect the number of days between the date of his appointment and December 31, 2012, the end of the fourth calendar quarter.
 
In addition, pursuant to the Company's 2008 Long-Term Incentive Plan, as amended, Mr. Quick will receive a grant of restricted stock units as of the effective date of his appointment. On October 26, 2012, Mr. Quick will be granted restricted stock units equal to the number of shares of common stock having an aggregate fair market value of $120,000, pro-rated to reflect the number of days between the date of his appointment and the one year anniversary of the 2012 Annual Stockholders Meeting. Mr. Quick would also receive an additional grant of restricted stock units equal to the number of shares of common stock having an aggregate fair market value of $120,000 on the date of the Company's 2013 Annual Meeting of Stockholders if he is then serving as a non-employee director. The restricted stock units granted to Mr. Quick will vest and convert into shares of common stock (i) upon the first anniversary of the date of grant for the restricted stock units granted upon his appointment to the Board; and (ii) upon the earlier of the first anniversary of the date of grant or the first Annual Stockholders Meeting following the date of grant for the restricted stock units to be granted on the date of the 2013 Annual Stockholders Meeting; provided that Mr. Quick is providing services to the Company or its subsidiaries on such date.
 
Item 9.
01
                                          
Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(d) Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
Richardson, TX. October 9, 2012  Fossil, Inc. (Nasdaq GS: FOSL) (the "Company") today announced that Mark Quick will retire as Vice Chairman on October 26, 2012.  Mr. Quick joined the Company in November 1995 and has held a number of senior leadership positions.  Mr. Quick has served as Vice Chairman since January 2007.  Mr. Quick's responsibilities will be assigned to other senior executives.  Fossil further announced that Mr. Quick has been appointed to its Board of Directors effective October 26, 2012.  With the appointment, the Company's Board of Directors will consist of twelve members, including nine independent directors, two former members of senior management and one current member of senior management.
 
"Mark's contributions and accomplishments over the last seventeen years have been an instrumental part of the growth of Fossil.  We look forward to Mark taking a new role as a Fossil board member," said Mr. Kosta Kartsotis, the Company's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.
 
"The past seventeen years of working with our incredible Fossil team has been the most rewarding time of my career.   I am excited to stay connected with Fossil's success story through my Board appointment," said Mr. Quick.
 
About Fossil
 
Fossil is a global design, marketing and distribution company that specializes in consumer fashion accessories.  The Company's principal offerings include an extensive line of men's and women's fashion watches and jewelry sold under proprietary and licensed brands, handbags, small leather goods, belts, sunglasses, soft accessories, shoes and clothing. In the watch and jewelry product categories, the Company's offerings include a diverse portfolio of globally recognized proprietary and licensed brand names under which its products are marketed. The Company's extensive range of accessory products, brands, distribution channels and price points allows it to target style-conscious consumers across a wide age spectrum on a global basis.  The Company's products are sold to department stores, specialty retail stores and specialty watch and jewelry stores in the U.S. and in approximately 120 countries worldwide through 26 Company-owned foreign sales subsidiaries and a network of approximately 60 independent distributors.  The Company also distributes its products in over 400 Company-owned and operated retail stores and through international e-commerce websites and the Company's U.S. e-commerce website at www.fossil.com, where certain product, press release and SEC filing information concerning the Company are also available.
 


