FILE:XOM/XOM-8K-20030507082726.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
 
ITEM 9.          Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
The following information is furnished pursuant to this Item 9 and also pursuant to "Item 12.  Results of Operations and Financial Condition."
 
The Registrant hereby furnishes the information set forth in its 2002 Financial and Operating Review, a copy of which is included as Exhibit 99.1.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
Projections, targets, expectations, estimates, and business plans in this report are forward-looking statements. Actual future results, including demand growth and energy mix; capacity growth; project plans, dates, and capacities; production rates and resource recoveries; and efficiency gains and savings could differ materially due to, for example, changes in market conditions affecting the oil and gas industry; war and other political or security disturbances; changes in, and adherence by countries to, OPEC quotas; weather; the occurrence and duration of economic recessions; the outcome of commercial negotiations; and other factors discussed in this report and under the the heading "Factors Affecting Future Results" on our web site and in Item 1 of ExxonMobil's most recent Form 10-K.
 
Definitions of certain financial and operating measures and other terms used in this report are contained in the section titled "Frequently Used Terms" on pages 85 through 88. In the case of financial measures that we believe constitute "non-GAAP financial measures" under SEC Regulation G, the definitions also include a reconciliation to the most comparable GAAP measure and other information required by that rule.
 
Certain prior-period amounts include reclassifications to reflect a previously announced change in segment reporting. Earnings of divested coal and copper mining businesses are reported as discontinued operations.
 
 
EXXONMOBIL'S COMPETITIVE STRENGTHS
 
ExxonMobil has a long history of leadership in the petroleum and petrochemical industries. The discipline and commitment we apply in the execution of our business strategies have led to sustainable competitive advantages.
 
  ExxonMobil maintains a uniquely strong commitment to proprietary technology in all of our business functions  consistently investing more than competition.
Commitment to Technology.
 
Business Approach
 
  ExxonMobil's straightforward approach to ethics and business integrity is reflected in all of our activities. Our goal is to report results that are clear and readily understood by investors.
Business Integrity.
 
  ExxonMobil takes a disciplined, long-term approach to making investment decisions.
Capital Discipline.
 
  ExxonMobil has consistently maintained an unwavering focus on the performance of our base business.
Operational Excellence.
 
  ExxonMobil implements our strategies through 10 global functional companies, providing a competitive advantage through global ranking of opportunities and effective deployment of people in ever-changing business conditions.
Global Functional Organization.
 
Long-Standing History
 
  The exceptional quality of ExxonMobil's workforce has long been valued as a source of competitive advantage.
Employees.
 
  ExxonMobil's global presence allows us to build upon existing business experience to capture opportunities in the world's higher-growth regions, such as the deep waters offshore West Africa and in areas recently opened to private investment, such as the Caspian region and Russia.
Worldwide Experience.
 
  The company's size, geographic diversity, and the complementary nature of the Upstream, Downstream, and Chemical businesses mitigate the corporation's sensitivity to fluctuations in individual business lines and markets.
Diversity of Operations.
 
  ExxonMobil's worldwide businesses are pursuing a broad portfolio of profitable projects.
Outstanding Portfolio of Opportunities.
 
Industry-Leading Results
 
  A strong cash flow and financial position, combined with a long-standing triple-A credit rating, allow ExxonMobil to pursue all profitable opportunities.
Financial Strength.
 
  ExxonMobil views return on capital employed as the most critical and best measure of capital productivity in our capital-intensive industry. In 2002, ExxonMobil remained the industry leader, with a 13.5 percent return on capital employed.
Leadership in Return on Capital Employed.
 
 
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
 
 
KEY FINANCIAL RATIOS
 
Capital employed consists of shareholders' equity and debt, including ExxonMobil's share of amounts applicable to equity companies.
(1)
         
See Frequently Used Terms.
Debt includes short- and long-term debt. Capital includes short- and long-term debt, shareholders' equity, and minority interests.
(2)
         
Current liabilities include short-term debt (notes and loans payable).
(3)
         
 
 
ExxonMobil
is committed to our proven business approach and the long-standing fundamental strategies that capitalize on our core strengths. Our business approach is straightforward and focused on the long term, as the company achieves superior financial and operating results that enhance long-term returns to our shareholders.
 
 
2002 HIGHLIGHTS
 
  Record safety performance.
              
 - 
 
  Proved reserves additions replaced 117 percent of production.
              
 - 
 
  Oil-equivalent production capacity was up 1 percent.
              
 - 
 
  Upstream capital and exploration spending grew by $1.6 billion to $10.4 billion.
              
 - 
 
  Ten new major projects brought onstream with targeted gross daily peak production of more than 490 thousand barrels and 230 million cubic feet of gas.
              
 - 
 
  Key resource additions from Angola, Nigeria, Australia, Kazakhstan, and North America.
              
 - 
 
  Downstream continued to capture substantial pre-tax efficiencies of $1.4 billion during the year.
              
 - 
 
  Record Chemical sales volumes for the fourth consecutive year and 4 percent above last year's level.
              
 - 
 
  Substantial earnings from divestments of our Chilean copper business and Colombian coal business.
              
 - 
 
  Annual dividend payments increased for the 20th consecutive year.
              
 - 
 
2002 INDUSTRY CONDITIONS
 
 -  
              
World GDP grew about 2 percent in 2002 versus 1.4 percent in 2001, extending a period of relatively weak demand growth for oil and gas. World oil demand increased by about 250 thousand barrels per day in 2002.
 
 -  
              
Brent oil prices averaged approximately $25 per barrel in 2002, about 50 cents per barrel higher versus 2001.
 
 -  
              
Natural gas prices in the United States increased through the year, but on average were about 25 percent lower versus 2001. Natural gas prices were down about 15 percent in Europe.
 
 -  
              
Industry refining margins in the U.S. and Europe fell significantly in 2002 due to weak product demand. In Asia-Pacific, excess refinery capacity also contributed to depressed margins.
 
 -  
              
Chemical margins remained near bottom-of-cycle levels in 2002 for most high-volume petrochemicals, reflecting sufficient supply and moderate demand growth.
 
 
Leadership Position in Core Businesses
In the Upstream, ExxonMobil participates in every major producing area in the world. We have a substantial production base in the United States, Europe, and the Asia-Pacific region and are unique in having interests in the four major growth areas of West Africa, the Middle East, the Caspian, and Russia. ExxonMobil has the largest resource base of any nongovernment company in the world with 72 billion oil-equivalent barrels. Our proprietary technology, financial strength, worldwide experience, and disciplined approach make ExxonMobil the partner of choice for host governments and joint-venture partners.
In the Downstream, ExxonMobil is the largest fuels refiner and manufacturer of lubes basestocks in the world. We market retail petroleum products and finished lubricants under three strong brands. Our refineries are 50-percent larger than industry average, with more than 80 percent of capacity integrated with other ExxonMobil manufacturing operations, which results in world-class efficiency. ExxonMobil's range of market-focused retail formats and customer-targeted lubricant products differentiates us from the competition and provides continued competitive advantage.
In Chemical, ExxonMobil is a leading producer and supplier of primary petrochemicals, including olefins, polyolefins, and aromatics, as well as a number of specialty petrochemicals. Our Chemical business is competitively advantaged by our leading-edge technology, integration of more than 90 percent of our assets with refineries, mix of cyclical and non-cyclical businesses, and superior cost structure.
 
INDUSTRY OUTLOOK
 
World Energy Demand Growing
 
There is a long-standing, proven link between economic growth and energy use. Growing economies will continue to require reliable and affordable energy supplies. We expect hydrocarbons, which currently account for about 80 percent of energy supply, to maintain a significant share of world energy demand.
 
Responsible Development
 
Today, roughly 85 percent of the world's population lives in developing countries, where GDP per capita is only about 6 percent of that in the developed world. Some 1.6 billion people have no access to electricity, and more than 1 billion people lack access to safe drinking water. Such needs provide a tremendous opportunity and responsibility to help improve the quality of life for people around the world.
 
 
Efficiency and Conservation Important to Meeting Future Energy Needs
 
 
Economic growth will remain the primary driver of energy demand. The global economy has grown at an average rate of about 3 percent per year since 1970. We expect growth to continue at that pace, on average, for the next couple of decades as developing nations play a greater role in the global economy, and increases in productivity offset lower population growth.
 
We expect worldwide energy demand to grow at about 2 percent per year, reflecting significant but yet-to-be-achieved advances in energy efficiency. Contributing to these efficiency gains will be the development and deployment of new technologies such as natural gas combined-cycle turbines for power generation, and advanced internal combustion engine and hybrid vehicles. We expect world energy demand will be close to 290 million oil-equivalent barrels per day by 2020  or about 40 percent more than today.
 
 
Oil and Gas Will Remain Predominant Energy Sources
 
We anticipate that hydrocarbon fuels will remain the dominant energy source, at least through the middle of the century. Wind and solar power will continue to grow rapidly, due to significant government policies and incentives, not market economics. To put this in perspective, solar power can cost somewhere between $100 and $250 per oil-equivalent barrel.
 
 
The intermittent nature of solar energy can result in additional costs for backup supplies. Starting from a low base today, wind and solar energy are unlikely to exceed a 1-percent share of the world's energy needs by 2020, even with double-digit growth rates.
 
This view recognizes the role and scope of hydrocarbon supplies today, including their enduring competitive advantages in terms of cost and ease of use in multiple applications. The oil and gas share of the world's energy supply  close to 60 percent today  is expected to remain at that level over the next two decades.
 
Some 50 years ago, natural gas represented about 10 percent of the world's energy demand. Today it exceeds 20 percent of demand. Over the next couple of decades, we expect this trend to continue, with natural gas capturing about one-third of all incremental energy growth. Driving this growth is the fact that natural gas remains the fuel of choice to meet increasing electricity demand around the world. By 2020, gas is likely to supply about one-quarter of global energy requirements  second only to oil.
 
Growing Oil and Gas Demand Requires New Supplies
 
The ongoing task of our industry is to find, produce, and deliver energy products in an economic and environmentally sound manner. By 2015, the petroleum industry will likely need to add some 100 million oil-equivalent barrels per day to meet demand  an amount close to 80 percent of today's production levels.
 
Meeting growing energy demand will require access to resources, technology advances, significant investments, timely development, and the cooperation of host governments. As indigenous supplies of oil and gas within mature market areas decline while demand grows, the dependency between importing and exporting countries is expected to increase. We expect growing supplies from West Africa, Russia, the Caspian region, and the Middle East to support higher imports into the United States, Europe, and Asia.
 
The prospect of higher import levels continues to raise concerns about security of supply. The key to security will be found in diversity of supply. Governments can do much to help this effort by promoting diversity through access to resource acreage in all regions.
 
 
Technology Gains Required to Help Meet Future Needs
 
New technologies will continue to help improve the recovery of hydrocarbon resources, as demonstrated in the past by improvements in 3-D seismic imaging and reservoir modeling, advanced drilling, and arctic and deepwater resource development. ExxonMobil's commitment to new technology will help reduce the cost of producing difficult-to-reach resources and increase the potential for discovering resources that will contribute to future energy supplies.
 
ExxonMobil will continue to improve on the legacy of our technology successes. Our industry-leading resource base, technology advantages, project-management discipline and financial strength provide us with a sustainable competitive advantage to capitalize on the opportunities ahead.
 
COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGES BUILD SHAREHOLDER VALUE
 
Unparalleled Execution of Business Strategies
 
ExxonMobil's fundamental approach to our business is disciplined, straightforward, and focused on the long term. Although other companies may take a similar approach, it is the execution of our strategies that distinguishes us from competition. It is this superior execution that delivers industry-leading results in all aspects of our business.
 
Unwavering Capital Discipline
 
In our industry, where large capital investments are required, it is important to demonstrate the prudent use of capital resources. ExxonMobil's relentless drive to maximize the value of our assets begins with the investment decision. We apply a disciplined approach to selecting and pursuing the most-attractive opportunities, and this discipline continues through execution of all phases of the project from design through start-up and ongoing operations. We continuously work to control costs. Once investments are made, a rigorous re-appraisal process is completed to ensure relevant lessons are learned and improvements are incorporated into future projects. This rigorous approach ensures that we are achieving the maximum value for our assets and clearly distinguishes us from our competition.
 
 
Operational Excellence Delivers Superior Results
 
The same disciplined approach we take to making investment decisions is applied to managing our operations. We call this Operational Excellence. ExxonMobil believes that Operational Excellence starts with safety. When a company is committed to safety, as we are, the same discipline and commitment are applied in all aspects of business. In 2002, ExxonMobil set another record in safety performance, and led the industry again in this area.
 
Additionally, ExxonMobil management's commitment to proven, structured management systems ensures consistent quality of work in the 200 countries and territories where the company operates. We have achieved strong results by focusing on continuous productivity improvements and cost efficiencies.
 
 
Global Functional Organization Creates Efficiencies
ExxonMobil is the only multinational integrated oil company organized to operate the functional business lines on a global basis. Through the functional organization, global opportunities are ranked and people are promptly deployed to ever-changing business conditions. The functional organization also helps to more promptly identify and prioritize high-impact technology needs, and it facilitates the rapid sharing of ideas and best practices across our global operations.
 
ExxonMobil's functional approach is delivering savings to the bottom line through operating cost efficiencies and revenue enhancements. In 2002, ExxonMobil businesses delivered almost $1.9 billion before-tax in efficiencies, and we expect to deliver an additional $1 billion in 2003.
 
Ethics and Business Integrity Remain Core Values
At ExxonMobil, we have long recognized the importance and value of ethics and business integrity. We believe they are key to long-term, sustainable results. Our approach is straightforward and is reflected in all of our activities. We strive to ensure our results are clear and readily understood by our investors.
 
Geographic and Functional Diversity Provides Balance
 
The company's size, geographic diversity, and the complementary nature of the Upstream, Downstream, and Chemical businesses mitigate the corporation's sensitivity to fluctuations in individual business lines and markets. By taking advantage of synergies among these businesses, ExxonMobil is able to optimize total company performance.
 
 
Strong Cash Flow Results from Business Approach
 
In 2002, we generated $24 billion in cash flow from operations and asset sales. We invested $14 billion in capital and exploration expenditures, and distributed more than $10 billion to shareholders through dividend payments and share repurchases.
 
During the last three years, we have generated nearly $77 billion in cash flow from operations and asset sales, invested $37 billion in capital and exploration expenditures, and distributed $29 billion to shareholders in the form of dividends and share buybacks. The company also reduced debt outstanding and grew cash balances during this time period.
 
 
Financial Strength Enables Pursuit of all Profitable Opportunities
ExxonMobil is one of few U.S. industrial companies with a triple-A credit rating  a rating that has been sustained for 84 years. Our financial strength allows us to readily access capital markets and fund the capital needed to pursue any and all profitable opportunities. Strong business results and a prudent and well-tested approach to financial management ensure we maintain this financial strength at any stage of the industry cycle.
 
Net debt to capital (net of cash) ended the year at about 4 percent. Fixed charge coverage was almost 14 times for 2002, and cash flow to net debt was near 700 percent. This performance demonstrates the rigorous commitment to financial and capital investment discipline that has yielded a productive capital base throughout the business cycle.
 
The company's financial position, size, and geographic and functional diversity provide a natural hedge to mitigate risk from changes in commodity prices, foreign exchange, and interest rates. As a result, the company seldom uses derivatives, and only does so to offset exposures from existing transactions.
 
 
Competitive Advantages (continued)
 
Industry Leader in Return on Capital Employed
 
ExxonMobil views return on capital employed as the most critical and best measure of historical capital productivity in our capital-intensive, long-term industry. ExxonMobil has a long history of leadership in return on capital employed. The combination of our disciplined investments and operational excellence leads to consistent industry-leading returns. In 2002, ExxonMobil remained the industry leader in return on capital employed, with a return of 13.5 percent.
 
ExxonMobil
s Approach Grows Shareholder Value
'
 
Long-term growth in shareholder value is our core, fundamental objective, and our track record demonstrates we continue to provide substantial benefits for our shareholders. ExxonMobil has paid a dividend every year for more than a century, and dividend payments have increased in each of the past 20 years, reaching $0.92 per share in 2002. During 2002, we distributed more than $10 billion to shareholders through dividend payments and share repurchases, representing a total yield of about 4 percent of the company's equity market capitalization at the beginning of the year. During the last three years, $29 billion in dividends and share buybacks has been distributed to shareholders, representing more than 10 percent of ExxonMobil's year-end 1999 market value.
 
Returns on ExxonMobil shares have consistently outpaced those of the S&P 500 index. ExxonMobil shareholders have earned annualized returns of 16.9 percent and 14.8 percent during the last 20 and 30 years, respectively, compared with returns from the S&P 500 index of 12.7 percent and 10.7 percent in the same time periods.
 
The volatility of ExxonMobil's stock price, a measure of the fluctuation of monthly returns around its average and a key indication of risk, has equaled the volatility of the diversified S&P 500 index during the past five years, and has been well below that of peers in our industry during that same time period.
 
 
Disciplined Management of Annuity Plans
 
ExxonMobil and its affiliates manage more than 100 pension plans. The funding arrangement for each plan depends on the prevailing practices and regulations of the countries where the company operates.
 
In several countries, such as the United States, Canada, and the United Kingdom, the prevailing practice is to fund most pension obligations through separate assets or insurance arrangements. These plans are managed in compliance with the requirements of governmental authorities, and meet or exceed required funding levels as measured by relevant actuarial and government standards at the mandated measurement dates.
 - 
       
 
Book reserves are established for plans in other countries, as well as certain smaller plans in the U.S., because tax conventions and regulatory practices do not encourage funding. Book reserves are added as additional pension costs are incurred with company service, and benefit payments are made from corporate cash flow.
 - 
       
 
The approach to managing the financial assets associated with these plans is consistent with the core principles followed in all ExxonMobil businesses. Our fund management reflects careful assessment of the risks of various asset classes, diversification to minimize the portfolio's risk, and a long-term orientation that minimizes transaction costs and takes advantage of more-predictable, long-term asset returns.
 
ExxonMobil is a capital-intensive, rather than a labor-intensive, business. Pension expense represented only 2 percent of total operating costs in 2002. Pension expense is calculated based on U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, which require certain assumptions, such as discount rate and long-term expected earnings. Assumptions are developed conservatively, are reviewed by outside actuaries and senior management, and are within the range of peer practice and actual experience. For example, our long-term earnings rate assumption has been, and will continue to be, consistent with historical returns. The 2003 assumption is 9 percent for the U.S. pension plan versus 9.5 percent in 2002. Returns over the past 10- and 20-year periods were 10 percent and 11 percent, respectively.
 
NUMBER OF REGULAR EMPLOYEES AT YEAR END
 
CORS employees are employees of company-operated retail sites.
(1)
         
 
DIVIDEND AND OTHER SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
 
Dividends per common share for 1998 and 1999 reflect the sum of the dividends paid by Exxon and Mobil divided by the number of shares that would have been outstanding for the periods, after adjusting the Mobil shares for the exchange ratio of 1.32015 shares of ExxonMobil common stock.
(1)
         
Total shareholder returns are the appreciation of the stock price over a year plus the value of the dividends, with dividend reinvestment, and excluding trading commissions and taxes. See Frequently Used Terms.
(2)
         
Market quotations for common stock reflect Exxon share prices through November 30, 1999, the effective date of the merger, and ExxonMobil share prices thereafter.
(3)
         
Cash flow includes cash from operations and asset sales. See Frequently Used Terms.
(4)
         
 
FUNCTIONAL EARNINGS
 
 
RETURN ON AVERAGE CAPITAL EMPLOYED(1) BY BUSINESS
 
Capital employed consists of shareholders' equity and debt, including ExxonMobil's share of amounts applicable to equity companies.  See Frequently Used Terms.
(1)
         
 
 
AVERAGE CAPITAL EMPLOYED(2) BY BUSINESS
 
Average capital employed is the average of beginning and end of year business segment capital employed.
(2)
         
See Frequently Used Terms.
 
NET INVESTMENT IN PROPERTY, PLANT, AND EQUIPMENT AT YEAR END
 
 
 
DEPRECIATION AND DEPLETION EXPENSES
 
 
 
OPERATING COSTS EXCLUDING MERGER EXPENSES AND DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS
 
 
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET AT YEAR END
 
The consolidated financial statements shown on pages 13 through 15 should be read in the context of the notes thereto provided in Appendix A of the corporation's 2003 Proxy Statement. The notes are an integral part of these statements.
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME
 
 
The consolidated financial statements shown on pages 13 through 15 should be read in the context of the notes thereto provided in Appendix A of the corporation's 2003 Proxy Statement. The notes are an integral part of these statements.
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
 
The consolidated financial statements shown on pages 13 through 15 should be read in the context of the notes thereto provided in Appendix A of the corporation's 2003 Proxy Statement. The notes are an integral part of these statements.
 
CAPITAL AND EXPLORATION EXPENDITURES( 1 )
 
 
See Frequently Used Terms.
(1)
         
Including related transportation.
(2)
         
 
Capital and Exploration Expenditures(1) (continued)
 
 
See Frequently Used Terms.
(1)
         
 
 
DISTRIBUTION OF CAPITAL AND EXPLORATION EXPENDITURES
 
Not included as part of total Capital and Exploration Expenditures, but included as part of exploration expenses in the Consolidated Statement of Income, page 14.
(2)
         
 
Safety
, Health & Environment
 
 
Guiding Principle
ExxonMobil is committed to maintaining high standards of safety, health, and environmental care. We comply with all applicable environmental laws and regulations, and apply responsible standards where laws and regulations do not exist.
 
Energy and chemicals are essential to economic growth. ExxonMobil has shown that we can produce these valuable products while protecting the health and safety of people, and safeguarding the environment. Our goal is to drive injuries, illnesses, and operational incidents as close to zero as possible.
 
Corporate Citizenship Report (CCR)
 
The ExxonMobil CCR, which further demonstrates our results in safety, health, environmental, and civic performance, is available on our web site and is updated periodically.
 
 
 
Employees from ExxonMobil's Antwerp Polymers plant in Belgium regularly practice at the Fire Brigade Training Center of the Province of Antwerp.
 
Goal of "Nobody Gets Hurt"
ExxonMobil leads the industry in safety performance, and 2002 was another record safety year  the safest in ExxonMobil history. Our leadership in safety results demonstrates the commitment and discipline we apply to all aspects of our business.
We believe that a safe work environment is a commitment we make to our employees. We also believe that a business unit with outstanding safety performance will also deliver superior results in the other areas of its operations. Good safety performance provides the foundation for the sound and efficient operation of our businesses around the world.
Disciplined Management of Safety, Health, and Environmental Activities
Risks are inherent in the energy and petrochemical business, but these risks can be successfully mitigated if managed properly. The Operations Integrity Management System (OIMS) is ExxonMobil's framework for the disciplined management of safety, health, and environmental activities throughout the company. It is designed to drive all operational incidents as close to zero as possible.
For existing operations and new projects, we conduct risk assessments to understand how we can achieve the highest levels of operating standards and prevent potentially adverse conditions. Management systems are in place to address the identified risks and must include documentation of the following five characteristics:
       Clear scope and objectives that fully define the purpose and expected results.
 - 
       Well-qualified people who are accountable to execute the system.
 - 
       Documented procedures to ensure the system functions properly.
 - 
       Measurable results to verify that the intent of the system is fulfilled.
 - 
       Performance feedback that drives continuous improvement of the system.
 - 
OIMS complies with the International Standard for Environmental Management systems (ISO 14001).
Our Environmental Business Planning ensures environmental issues are incorporated into local business decisions at our operations around the world.
Energy Efficiency Management
ExxonMobil has focused on becoming more energy efficient in our operations for decades. We have successfully improved our energy efficiency in our refineries and chemical plants by saving 1.8 billion oil-equivalent barrels, which is equal to all the gasoline consumed by European drivers for two years. These improvements have also reduced carbon dioxide emissions.
We have extended our energy-efficiency efforts by applying our Global Energy Management System (G-EMS) to ExxonMobil refineries and chemical plants and our most energy-intensive production facilities. G-EMS is a comprehensive energy-management system developed by ExxonMobil that identifies opportunities to improve energy efficiency by reducing energy use, emissions, and operating costs. Opportunities have been identified to further improve energy efficiency by 15 percent in the next several years.
Across all of our operations, we devote significant investments to energy conservation. Cogeneration, a power and steam producing facility, requires substantially less energy than making steam and power separately by conventional processes. ExxonMobil has installed cogeneration facilities at more than 30 locations worldwide. These units have capacity to generate nearly 2,900 megawatts of electricity, reducing carbon dioxide emissions by almost 7 million tons a year from what they otherwise would have been. In 2002, a 170-megawatt cogeneration plant began operating at our Cold Lake facility in Canada. In addition, we began construction of a 115-megawatt cogeneration facility at our LaBarge, Wyoming, gas-treatment facility and major new projects are under development at several refinery sites. In 2004, a 90-megawatt cogeneration facility is scheduled to start up at our Sarnia complex in Canada.
 
Technology
 
STRENGTH THROUGH TECHNOLOGY
ExxonMobil's unparalleled commitment to the development and application of industry-leading technologies provides the business with opportunities to discover, access, develop, refine, and market oil and gas resources not available to competitors. Our technology-development efforts are matched to our business needs through a rigorous prioritization and stewardship process that ensures decisions are based on sound technical and economic evaluation. Our emphasis is on proprietary research. We balance our investment between technology extensions, which can be rapidly deployed to our existing operations, and breakthrough research that could have a significant and lasting impact on the corporation and the industry.
 
ExxonMobil's leadership in technology is evident in the number of patents awarded to the company. During the past four years, ExxonMobil has received almost 4,000 patents in the United States and Europe, and we continue to be the industry-leading developer of a broad range of world-class technologies.
Patents Leverage Technology Investment.
 
 
A new 100,000-square-foot, state-of-the-art Upstream Training Center in Houston, Texas, is scheduled for completion in mid-2004. This center will feature multi-use classrooms, equipped with the latest audio-visual and other presentation equipment, that are capable of accommodating nearly 300 students per day. This investment reaffirms ExxonMobil's commitment to deploy leading-edge technologies through its highly-trained and competent workforce.
 
Upstream Technology
Technologies developed and deployed with the objectives of knowing where to focus exploration resources, where to target exploratory wells, and how to interpret the results with greater precision, at lower cost, and in less time are critical elements of our technology. ExxonMobil proprietary technology addresses each of these objectives with appropriate deployment ensured through our global exploration company.
Finding New Resources and Reducing Exploration Risk.
 
Understanding the three-dimensional evolution of a basin, including the sources, fluids, migration, traps, and reservoirs, provides focus and efficiency to exploration efforts. ExxonMobil's proprietary basin-modeling software delivers industry-leading analysis of a basin's hydrocarbon potential. is used from the earliest acreage acquisition efforts through our mature exploration-drilling campaigns to identify the highest-potential areas and prospects.
Stellar
Stellar
 
translates into additional opportunities and reduced risk. A proprietary suite of seismic-imaging capabilities has been developed by ExxonMobil to provide a competitive advantage in areas where seismic data quality limits exploration or development effectiveness.
quality
Sharper and more-accurate seismic images are often a critical competitive advantage in the acquisition of exploration acreage. Improved data
 
 
technology
ExxonMobil
provides unique exploration capabilities leading to improved drilling results.
 
Data integration and analysis, the rapid, accurate, and precise synthesis of the vast amount of information collected, is an area where ExxonMobil's technology has consistently led the industry. Our proprietary volume-interpretation and visualization capabilities are now deployed worldwide. These tools have reduced interpretation time for specific activities up to 90 percent, with as much as a 50-percent reduction in the overall interpretation cycle time.
 
ExxonMobil is uniquely positioned to maximize the value of proprietary technology through its broad portfolio of projects under development as well as through the focus provided by our global development business. Planning the optimum number and placement of development wells, the best development concept, and the most-efficient drilling designs are supported by ExxonMobil's technologies. These technologies enable the most cost-effective development of resources in the widest spectrum of environments and geologic conditions.
Efficient Development of Resources.
 
ExxonMobil developed and is now applying the industry's only next-generation reservoir simulator, . Its unique features more accurately predict the production characteristics of even the most-complex reservoirs. has proven to provide greater precision due to its more robust algorithms, and to save substantial time due to its unique unstructured gridding capability.
EMpower
EMpower
 
We have broad experience with the diverse suite of deepwater-development technologies employed today worldwide. Our efforts were recognized in 2002, when we were awarded the Offshore Technology Conference Distinguished Achievement Award for a number of industry firsts associated with the development of the deepwater Hoover-Diana fields. Our Early Production System concept is being deployed in three of our West Africa developments  Yoho, Xikomba, and Zafiro  to reduce the time to first production.
 
More than 25 years of arctic experience supports the profitable development of resources in remote areas such as Sakhalin, offshore Russia. ExxonMobil technology contributed to the design of the ice-resistant offshore platform, while proprietary tools enabled the design of the extended-reach drilling program that will develop a large part of the accumulation from land.
 
ExxonMobil has equity positions in many of the largest remote gas accumulations in the world and is uniquely positioned to benefit from new liquefied natural gas (LNG) and other gas commercialization technology. New technologies developed by our research labs are effectively deployed to gas projects worldwide.
New Technology Enables Commercialization of Remote Gas Resources.
 
Technology designed to improve the efficiency of liquefaction, transportation, and regassification has enabled us to improve the competitiveness of gas from the giant North Field in Qatar. The development of larger LNG trains to liquefy the gas, as well as larger and more-efficient ship designs, has resulted in a dramatic reduction in unit costs and has opened markets to us. Through ongoing research efforts dedicated to reducing costs, ExxonMobil expects to help satisfy an increasing percentage of the world's growing gas needs.
 
 
Direct Hydrocarbon Detection Research
 
ExxonMobil is developing proprietary technologies that have the potential to deliver breakthrough capabilities in direct hydrocarbon detection. This technology is expected to significantly improve the chance of success in finding new resources, plays, and prospects before drilling. It would also aid in better delineating the precise location and extent of discovered hydrocarbons.
 
ExxonMobil is investing in proprietary research on two approaches to direct detection of hydrocarbons. One of ExxonMobil's methods results in two- or three-dimensional images of hydrocarbons in the earth through a combination of surface-surveying techniques, including seismic and electromagnetic sources. This technique is applicable in deepwater environments, and our two-dimensional capability has been successfully field tested. While others may be developing similar two-dimensional capabilities, the three-dimensional imaging capability would be, to our knowledge, unique to ExxonMobil. One U.S. patent has been granted, with others pending.
 
The second approach for this technology does not rely on integration with conventional two- or three-dimensional seismic data. Research to date has shown that a signal in direct response to reservoired hydrocarbons can be generated and measured at the surface. ExxonMobil has seven patents issued for this technology and has developed the required instruments, algorithms, and work processes to acquire, process, and interpret these data. To date, this technology has been demonstrated for land applications and has undergone preliminary field testing, with encouraging results.
 
Strength Through Technology (continued)
Downstream Technology
ExxonMobil is developing and implementing molecular fingerprinting and modeling technologies designed to enhance our business both now and in the future. Competitive advantage is achieved in optimization of current operations and in meeting future product quality and environmental requirements. When we merge this molecular modeling technology with proprietary analysis methods for optimization of raw material inputs to our refineries, and with dynamic real-time optimization of plant operations, we achieve an industry-leading technology combination.
Industry-Leading Molecular Management Tools Provide a Competitive Edge.
 
Development of the molecular fingerprinting technology has involved collaboration with the National Institute of Science and Technology. Their neutron-scattering facility has helped to differentiate the types of molecules in crude oil. This type of collaborative work between ExxonMobil scientists and those in university and national laboratories continues to be a key enabler for delivery of innovative technology solutions to our business.
 
ExxonMobil's research laboratories are developing new refractory materials to significantly enhance fluid catalytic cracker (FCC) operations. FCC's are used in the refinery to convert high-boiling-point feedstock to motor fuel and high-value chemical feedstock. The combination of our metallurgical expertise and refinery operating experience has allowed us to make significant improvements in refractory materials for FCC hardware. These units, which operate at high temperatures and in highly erosive environments, require special materials that have the temperature stability of metals, but the erosion resistance of ceramics. Improving durability increases FCC reliability, reduces maintenance expenses, and improves performance.
New Materials Technologies Improve Established Refining Processes.
 
ExxonMobil fluidization experts have developed new computer tools to improve catalyst circulation that can be used in existing refinery FCC units. In an FCC, a powdered catalyst, similar in consistency to beach sand, is used to facilitate the conversion of feed and must be circulated rapidly between a reactor and regenerator to restore catalyst activity and supply heat to the reactor. The new model allows us to increase the rate of catalyst circulation and run the unit at higher severity and productivity levels. Initial applications of the model in affiliate refineries have improved catalyst circulation by as much as 10 percent. Widespread use across the ExxonMobil refining circuit is expected in 2003.
Advanced Modeling Enhances Innovation and Improves Refining Profitability.
 
By 2007 to 2008, up to 90 percent reductions in today's automotive emissions will be required. ExxonMobil's competitive leadership in lubricant technologies continues to provide advanced formulations that meet or exceed industry and government specifications for diesel emission reductions. ExxonMobil introduced a line of diesel lubricants that meets or exceeds new U.S. diesel emission specifications. The new formulations offer superior protection to existing and new engines, and deliver the performance-enhancing qualities already found in our lubricants, while also meeting emissions standards.
Advanced Lubricant Formulation Expertise Critical to Meeting Stringent Emissions Standards.
 
ExxonMobil has a long history of development and commercialization of breakthrough refining technology for the production of fuels and lubricants. This industry leadership continues with the process for gasoline sulfur reduction which has been successfully demonstrated around the world in both ExxonMobil and licensee refineries. The process can help achieve gasoline pool sulfur specifications as low as 10 parts per million, while maintaining octane levels.
ExxonMobil's Process Technology Portfolio Continues to Perform and Grow.
SCANfining
SCANfining
 
oils; and , which provides increased capability to remove sulfur and nitrogen in the production of ultra-low-sulfur diesel fuel. ExxonMobil's commitment to research continues to ensure innovation in process technology and catalysis, sustaining a leading-edge technology portfolio.
ExxonMobil continues to lead the industry with the development and application of new, premier catalysts. These include , which enhances the profitability of fluid catalytic cracking units; and , which provide superior aromatics saturation and isomerization dewaxing capability for the manufacture of today's stringent high-quality Group II and Group III automotive lube
Advanta
MAXSAT
MSDW
NEBULA
 
 
SCANfining
We estimate that 25 percent of North American low-sulfur gasoline will contain products from ExxonMobil's proprietary
process.
 
Chemical Technology
ExxonMobil Chemical is a leader in the development and use of proprietary, leading-edge technologies for the production of olefins, aromatics, and polymers.
 
ExxonMobil Chemical commercialized steam cracking in the early 1940's, and today is the only major olefins producer with proprietary pyrolysis-reactor technology. This technology delivers the highest olefin yields in the industry and enables a broad slate of advantaged feedstocks to be processed.
 
Our and technologies for the production of aromatics use ExxonMobil's proprietary zeolite shape-selective catalyst technology to increase conversion and reduce losses versus other technologies. Zeolite catalyst technology is also employed for the production of higher olefins.
XyMax
PxMax
 
ExxonMobil pioneered metallocene single-site polyolefin catalyst technology in the 1980's and remains a leader in this technology field. Metallocene catalysts allow polymer structure to be precisely tailored to improve performance. These catalysts also reduce operating costs and by-product production versus traditional polyolefin catalysts.
 
ExxonMobil Chemical is a leader in the development and commercialization of metallocene single-site catalysts for polymer production.
 
ExxonMobil has developed a new polypropylene product for automotive bumpers that provides excellent appearance, is scratch resistant, and can be used in both mold-in color and partial paint applications.
Creating Better Products for Consumers.
 
New grades and densities of metallocene-based polyethylene offer exceptional toughness and strength for high-performance films.
Exceed
 
Our new oriented polypropylene film replaces metallized paper in water-based, glue-labeling applications. The film is the first of its kind to run on most existing paper-labeling equipment without machinery or adhesive modifications.
Label-Lyte
 
In some cases, the value of our technology is enhanced through joint ventures and industry licensing.
Value of Technology Leveraged Through Licensing.
 
Univation Technologies LLC, the polyethylene technology and licensing joint venture owned by ExxonMobil Chemical and Dow Chemical Company, successfully demonstrated production of bimodal high-density polyethylene (HDPE) in a single gas-phase polyethylene reactor. The new catalyst technology allows the production of HDPE resins at substantially lower costs than traditional staged processes. Bimodal polyethylenes combine superior processing characteristics with unique physical properties, and are used in a broad range of applications such as pipe, films, and blow molding. The technology is expected to be available for licensing in 2003.
Prodigy
Prodigy
 
Work continued on a project to increase production capacity for metallocene catalysts at the Univation Mont Belvieu, Texas, manufacturing site. The project, scheduled for completion in 2003, will increase catalyst manufacturing capacity to the equivalent of more than 2. 5 million-tons-per-year of metallocene polyethylene.
Exxpol
 
Several additional licenses were signed for use of ExxonMobil's tubular high-pressure, low-density polyethylene, steam cracking, and aromatics technologies.
 
 
 
Sales of ExxonMobil's metallocene polymers have grown at more than 40% per year since introduction.
Global Climate and Energy Project
In 2002, ExxonMobil committed to invest $100 million in a groundbreaking research effort at Stanford University, the Global Climate and Energy Project (G-CEP). We believe that the only viable solution to addressing the potential long-term risk of climate change is through the development of practical, commercially viable technologies.
 
Stanford University will lead the project. Scientists and engineers from universities and companies, including ExxonMobil, General Electric, and Schlumberger, will work on a wide range of issues associated with energy needs. We believe this project holds great promise for yielding new technology to support continued production of reliable and affordable energy while reducing greenhouse gas emissions in a cost-effective way.
 
 
Exploration, Development, Production, and Gas and Power Marketing
 
ExxonMobil has upstream activities in more than 40 countries and is a leading producer both onshore and offshore.
 
The Kizomba A Floating Production, Storage, and Offloading vessel will be deployed offshore Angola.
The development is expected to recover 1 billion barrels of oil (gross).
 
UPSTREAM STRATEGIES
       Maximize profitability of existing oil and gas production.
 - 
       Identify and pursue all attractive exploration opportunities.
 - 
       Invest in projects that deliver superior returns.
 - 
       Capitalize on growing natural gas and power markets.
 - 
Although business conditions and opportunities change from year to year, ExxonMobil employs a set of long-term fundamental strategies in our worldwide exploration, development, production, and gas and power marketing businesses. These strategies are supported by an unparalleled commitment to technology. Superior execution of these strategies through our global functional organization, across what we believe is the best upstream asset portfolio in the industry, distinguishes ExxonMobil from competition.
INDUSTRY CONDITIONS
 
              
 - 
World oil demand increased by about 250 thousand barrels per day in 2002 as a sluggish global economy extended a relatively weak demand environment for oil and gas.
 
              
 - 
Brent oil prices averaged about $25 per barrel in 2002, up about 50 cents per barrel versus 2001.
 
              
 - 
World natural gas consumption increased about 1 percent in 2002.
 
              
 - 
United States natural gas prices increased throughout the year, but were still about 25 percent lower versus 2001. In Europe, natural gas prices averaged about 15 percent lower than 2001.
 
 
Water is treated, then converted to steam for injection into the reservoir at the Cold Lake Mahkeses plant.
2002 HIGHLIGHTS
Earnings were $9.6 billion, down from last year's results primarily due to lower natural
gas prices throughout much of the year.
Return on average capital employed was 22.3 percent in 2002, averaging 21 percent
over the past five years.
Profit per oil-equivalent barrel was $6.00, excluding income from power and coal activities.
Liquids and gas production available for sale totaled 4.2 million oil-equivalent barrels per day, exceeding all competitors.
Proved oil and gas reserve additions totaled 1.9 billion oil-equivalent barrels, replacing 117 percent of reserves produced, including asset sales (118 percent with sales excluded). This is the ninth year in a row that ExxonMobil has more than replaced reserves produced.
At 21.9 billion oil-equivalent barrels, ExxonMobil's proved reserves are the largest of any nongovernment company.
Resource base additions totaled 2.2 billion oil-equivalent barrels in 2002, bringing the total to an industry-leading 72 billion barrels. Key contributions were made from Angola, Australia, Kazakhstan, Nigeria, and North America.
Finding costs were $0.61 per oil-equivalent barrel, down from an already low three-year average of $0.64.
Major projects expected to develop more than 8 billion net oil-equivalent barrels of resources are under way, providing a solid basis for future profitable production growth.
 
 
 
UPSTREAM COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGES
ExxonMobil's industry-leading, world-class, and geographically diverse upstream portfolio spans more than 40 countries. It includes a resource base totaling 72 billion oil-equivalent barrels, 4.2 million oil-equivalent barrels per day of production in 25 countries, more than 100 major new development projects, and global gas and power marketing.
Strong Diverse Portfolio
Large, highly profitable, established oil and gas operations in North America, Europe, Asia-Pacific, and West Africa form the strong foundation of this portfolio. These areas include long-life producing fields and have significant near-term potential as new opportunities are developed using existing infrastructure. Our asset base includes more than 60,000 productive wells from 8,300 reservoirs and almost 600 offshore platforms, and we invest in active work programs to maintain this profitable base. ExxonMobil also holds a strong position and is investing in high-quality opportunities that will provide the basis for profitable future growth in West Africa, the Caspian region, Eastern Canada, the Middle East, Russia, and the Gulf of Mexico.
 
Leading Deepwater Position
ExxonMobil has an industry-leading position in deepwater areas, with participation in 62 significant deepwater discoveries, and interests in more than 690 deepwater blocks totaling more than 49 million gross acres. The company is a leading holder of acreage in the world's most active deepwater regions: West Africa, the Caspian Sea, and the Gulf of Mexico; and has active exploration programs, development, and production in deepwater areas around the world. This prominent position is contributing to current production and will add significantly to future profitable production growth.
 
In the next five years, ExxonMobil plans to participate in 20 deepwater project start-ups, which are expected to add 2.7 million gross oil-equivalent barrels per day. We estimate that 20 to 25 percent of our liquids production in 2010 will be from deepwater areas. Application of state-of-the-art technology and superior project execution provide ExxonMobil with a competitive advantage in development of these high-quality resources.
 
 
Financial Strength and Disciplined Approach
ExxonMobil's financial strength and access to capital are competitive advantages that allow us to pursue all attractive projects and maximize returns. We continually invest in our existing asset base to increase resource recovery, maximize profitability, and extend the economic life of our oil and gas fields. Potential projects are tested over a wide range of economic scenarios to ensure resiliency in expected returns. They are evaluated for strategic fit and long-term advantage versus competition. They undergo a rigorous reappraisal process to ensure relevant lessons are learned and improvements are incorporated into future decisions. This disciplined and rigorous approach to making investments and managing assets clearly distinguishes us from competition.
 
We apply the same discipline to managing our operations around the world every day, and maintain a relentless focus on operational excellence. We understand and apply the fundamentals, and diligently pursue efficiencies and productivity gains.
 
 
The Early Production System (EPS) on location at the Yoho development in Nigeria, which started up in late 2002. The EPS brought production on stream two years ahead of full-field production.
 
Experienced and Dedicated Workforce
ExxonMobil has an experienced, dedicated, and diverse workforce of exceptional quality. The upstream organization, structured around the life cycle of an asset, from exploration to development to production to gas and power marketing, provides a significant competitive advantage. The organization is centralized and run on a worldwide basis, but managed in each country. This allows us to establish priorities on a global basis, effectively leveraging the transfer of technology and best practices across our vast worldwide portfolio. We maintain a strong focus on operational excellence in all aspects of our business while efficiently deploying experienced people with the right skills. This approach has yielded significant advantages in both cost efficiencies and our ability to recognize and respond to changes in the business environment.
 
 
Commitment to Technology
 
Production from the Angsi development contributed to record gas sales in Malaysia.
 
ExxonMobil's long-standing commitment to the development and application of leading-edge upstream technology is unmatched in the industry and provides a sustainable competitive advantage. Technology is the lifeblood of our business. It allows us to maximize value by increasing recoverable resources, reducing costs, and creating new markets for our products. Over the life of a field, new technology helps produce greater volumes and extend field life. We manage upstream technology development and application with the same disciplined approach we use in making all our business decisions. Our approach to technology and our track record of developing industry-leading new technology serve us well in countries where we have an established business presence, and in emerging areas where we are positioned to be the partner of choice. Technology has been, and will remain, fundamental to our business success.
 
RESOURCES AND PROVED RESERVES
Resource Base
The size, quality, and breadth of ExxonMobil's total inventory of discovered oil and gas resources are major strengths of the company. ExxonMobil's discovered resource base now stands at 72 billion oil-equivalent barrels (30 percent proved), 57 percent of which is liquids. It has grown by almost 30 percent, or more than 16 billion oil-equivalent barrels, during the last 10 years.
 
The resource base is updated annually to add new discoveries and resource acquisitions and to reflect any changes in estimates of existing resources. ExxonMobil refers to new discoveries and acquisitions of discovered, but undeveloped, resources as new field resource additions. The company includes only those resources it believes are likely to be produced in the future. Adjustments to existing field resources reflect changed recovery expectations resulting from new technologies and any other revisions resulting from continued field drilling and evaluation. During the update process, volumes produced or sold during the year are removed from the resource base.
 
Resources are classified as either proved or non-proved. Non-proved resources are typically converted to proved reserves once technical and commercial confidence support a development decision.
 
Proved Reserves
At year-end 2002, the resource base included nearly 22 billion oil-equivalent barrels of proved oil and gas reserves. Liquids comprise 58 percent of this proved reserve base. ExxonMobil added 1.9 billion oil-equivalent barrels to proved reserves in 2002, while producing 1.6 billion oil-equivalent barrels, replacing 117 percent of reserves produced, including asset sales. Excluding sales, we replaced 118 percent of reserves produced. This is the ninth consecutive year that the company's reserves replacement has exceeded 100 percent.
 
Excluding sales, the company has added 19 billion oil-equivalent barrels to proved reserves over the last 10 years (18 billion oil-equivalent barrels including sales), more than replacing production. Over the last five years, reserves have been added at an average replacement cost of $4.39 per oil-equivalent barrel.
 
ExxonMobil has consistently made net upward revisions to estimates of proved reserves in existing fields. These revisions have averaged 682 million oil-equivalent barrels per year over the last five years and have resulted from enhanced reservoir management and the application of new technology. In 2002, upward revisions were made at fields such as Zafiro in Equatorial Guinea, Tengiz in Kazakhstan, and Hibernia in Canada.
 
Development wells drilled in 2002 within existing fields are expected to ultimately recover more than 770 million oil-equivalent barrels of reserves at a cost of less than $3.25 per oil-equivalent barrel.
 
The development of new fields discovered through exploration and extensions of existing fields have added more than 1 billion oil-equivalent barrels per year to proved reserves over the past five years. These include proved additions in 2002 in Kazakhstan, Qatar, Russia, Angola, and Azerbaijan.
 
ExxonMobil's proved reserve base of 21.9 billion oil-equivalent barrels equates to a reserve life at current production rates of more than 13 years.
 
include quantities of oil and gas that may not yet be classified as proved reserves, but are likely to be moved to proved reserves and produced in the future.
Resource base, resources, recoverable oil, recoverable hydrocarbons, recoverable resources:
 
estimated quantities of crude oil, natural gas, and NGLs that geologic and engineering data show will be recoverable with reasonable certainty given existing economic and operating conditions (i.e., prices and costs at the date of the estimate). In general, ExxonMobil records proved reserves in conjunction with significant funding commitments made toward the development of the reserves.
Proved oil and gas reserves:
 
    Includes 100 percent of majority-owned affiliates' proved reserves.
 - 
 
    Includes ExxonMobil's percentage ownership of equity company proved reserves.
 - 
 
    Condensate is included in crude oil reserves.
 - 
 
    Can only consider price changes provided for by existing contracts.
 - 
 
    Can assume substantial new investment will be required.
 - 
 
In this report, we include proven reserves from Syncrude tar sands operations in Canada as part of our total proved reserves. Syncrude reserves are reported separately as a mining operation in SEC filings.
 
Reserve bookings for certain deepwater fields may be made prior to conducting flow tests due to safety and cost implications of such tests. In those situations, other industry-accepted analyses are used.
 
volumes recoverable through existing wells with existing equipment and operating methods.
Proved developed reserves:
 
volumes expected to be recovered as a result of future investments.
Proved undeveloped reserves:
 
PRODUCTION, DEVELOPMENT, AND EXPLORATION OVERVIEW
Profitable Global Production Base
key drivers behind the company's strong return on capital employed.
are
ExxonMobil has a profitable base including 1,800 producing fields in 25 countries. ExxonMobil is focused on maximizing profitability of this base through implementation of ongoing work programs, continuous focus on cost management and efficiency improvements, effective asset management, and application of best practices and industry-leading proprietary technologies. More than one-third of total upstream capital is spent on improvements to this profitable production base. These
 
Development for Production Capacity Growth
At year-end 2002, ExxonMobil had 52 major projects under way that are expected to develop more than 8 billion oil-equivalent barrels (net). Another 67 projects with the potential to develop up to an additional 12 billion oil-equivalent barrels (net) are in the early planning stage. ExxonMobil's expanding resource base and high-quality inventory of large development projects provide the basis for profitable future production growth. ExxonMobil's oil and gas production capacity is expected to grow by 3 percent per year on average through 2008.
 
Adding Resources for the Future
ExxonMobil continued its strong exploration results by adding 2.2 billion oil-equivalent barrels of new resources from 15 countries at a finding cost of $0.61 per oil-equivalent barrel. The company's exploration program in new venture areas continues to provide substantial resource additions through drilling and acquisition of discovered, undeveloped resources. This is complemented by selective exploration drilling in established areas that provides highly profitable resources with the potential for early production start-up through existing infrastructure.
 
 
 
MAJOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS
 
Project Start-Ups
 
= ExxonMobil Operated = Joint Operation               = Operated by Others
Operatorship:       
n
u
l
  * Under negotiation
** Not yet determined
 
 
ExxonMobil participates in five LNG trains in Qatar, one of which is shown here, with two more under construction. The North Field, a world-class resource, is well-positioned to be competitive in any market.
 
 
GAS AND POWER MARKETING OVERVIEW
ExxonMobil Gas & Power Marketing Company has a global focus on adding value from the gas source through to the customer by capitalizing on growing gas markets.
 
The objectives are to:
 
  Identify and develop markets to support growth of equity natural gas volumes.
 - 
 
  Maximize the value of natural gas, NGL, helium, CO, and power sales.
 - 
2
 
  Minimize delivered costs of purchased natural gas, NGL, and power.
 - 
 
  Maximize the value of natural gas, NGL, and power assets.
 - 
 
 
Growing Demand for Natural Gas
decade. Gas currently meets more than 20 percent of world energy demand and is expected to reach about 25 percent by 2020. The power sector will be the largest driver of new demand, as gas is expected to supply the majority of fuel for new power generation. The economies of North America, Europe, and the former Soviet Union are the largest consumers of gas, and are expected to grow about 1.0 to 3.5 percent annually over the next 10 years. Emerging markets in both Asia-Pacific and Latin America are forecast to drive gas demand growth in each of these regions at 4 to 5 percent annually over the next decade.
Natural gas is forecast to be the world's fastest-growing source of energy by volume through the end of the
 
Leveraging Global Expertise to Maximize Value
ExxonMobil is the world's largest nongovernment marketer of equity (own production) gas, with 2002 sales exceeding 10 billion cubic feet per day. Total gas sales were almost 19 billion cubic feet per day. Sales were made in more than 25 countries, across five continents, and in almost every major gas market in the world. The company participated in LNG joint ventures with a combined gross capacity of 20 million metric tons per year, nearly 20 percent of global industry capacity.
 
ExxonMobil has access to a broad portfolio of both established gas resources, which are close to existing gas markets, and new gas-field developments that will be commercialized to meet growing demand in both mature and emerging markets. The total resource base includes nearly 185 trillion cubic feet of net discovered resources (including 56 trillion cubic feet of proved reserves), which provides a solid foundation for profitable growth.
 
effectively in all sectors of the gas business worldwide is essential to optimizing a substantial base business and commercializing our large remote resources in growing and changing markets.
The company has leading-edge proprietary LNG, gas-to-liquids, power generation, and gas pipeline technologies and is pursuing industry-first technology aimed at expanding opportunities for commercializing natural gas. Our expertise in integrating these advanced technologies with global market requirements, strong financial position, and our understanding of transportation networks, project economics, and regulatory structures provide a substantial competitive advantage. The ability to participate
 
In 2002, the power segment of our business was combined with gas marketing to take further advantage of synergies in the businesses. The company has significant holdings in the electric power business, with interests in nearly 13,000 megawatts of generation capacity, including our interest in Hong Kong power generation, and power and cogeneration facilities at ExxonMobil's refining, chemical, and production operations. A power and gas services organization was created to take advantage of opportunities in the increasingly linked gas and power markets.
 
 
NORTH AMERICA
ExxonMobil has the industry's largest portfolio of proved reserves and production in North America. North American operations contributed about 38 percent of ExxonMobil's 2002 worldwide production on an oil-equivalent basis and 37 percent of upstream earnings, fueling growth in other areas.
 
 
United States
ExxonMobil is one of the largest oil and gas producers and reserve holders in the United States. The company's well-established portfolio is geographically diverse, with significant positions in all major producing regions including Alaska, onshore Gulf Coast, Gulf of Mexico shelf and deepwater areas, onshore and offshore California, and the Mid-Continent region. U.S. properties contributed 25 percent of the company's net oil and gas production in 2002 and accounted for 25 percent of proved reserves at year end.
 
drilling and an active workover program. In 2002, more than 720 development wells were completed.
development
The U.S. upstream continues to provide a significant contribution to ExxonMobil profitability through a sizable yet selective drilling program, investments in the existing base as well as in attractive new projects, and continued operational efficiency improvements. Technology and quality reservoir management enhance the long-term performance of each field. Base production decline is mitigated through
 
In Alaska, ExxonMobil is the largest resource owner in the Prudhoe Bay field. The permitting process has begun on the ExxonMobil-operated Point Thomson gas-cycling project (ExxonMobil interest, 36 percent) on Alaska's North Slope. This project is designed to yield 75 thousand barrels of condensate per day (gross) from gas injection of 1.4 billion cubic feet per day, and is expected to recover 400 million barrels of liquids over the life of the project.
 
Exploration drilling added more than 200 million oil-equivalent barrels to ExxonMobil's resource base, with significant additions from Alaska's North Slope and offshore California. Onshore in the U.S., gas exploration efforts contributed 11 (gross) successful wildcat wells.
 
 
Drilling wells in the Waha field in West Texas to maintain a profitable production base.
 
 
 
The Thunder Horse development will include a semi-submersible floating production, drilling, and quarters (PDQ) unit with direct access and remote subsea wells. Topsides fabrication is progressing and the hull/rig fabrication was initiated in September 2002. This unit could recover in excess of a billion oil-equivalent barrels (gross), making Thunder Horse the largest discovery to date in the Gulf of Mexico.
 
 
 
 
The ExxonMobil-operated Point Thomson gas-cycling project on the North Slope of Alaska is targeted to recover 400 million barrels of condensate (gross) through gas recycling. The project will include development and injection wells, high-pressure gas compression, condensate separation and stabilization, gathering pipelines, and infrastructure. A Memorandum of Understanding was signed with the State of Alaska in September 2002, establishing a State Permit Manager to facilitate the permitting process with state and federal agencies.
 
 
Deepwater Gulf of Mexico
 
of gross production, development projects under way, participation in high-potential discoveries and a strong inventory of prospects, ExxonMobil is well positioned for future growth in this challenging frontier area.
ExxonMobil's technological leadership and deepwater expertise provide a competitive advantage in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico. ExxonMobil has one of the leading deep-water acreage positions with high-quality interests in 566 deepwater blocks (about 3.4 million gross acres). With producing fields contributing 378 thousand oil-equivalent barrels per day
 
In 2002, production began from the second phase of the ExxonMobil-operated Mica development (ExxonMobil interest, 50 percent). Subsea wells in Mica are located 29 miles from the production facilities, making this the longest subsea oil tieback in North America. At year-end 2002, Mica was producing 6 thousand barrels of oil per day and about 150 million cubic feet of gas per day (gross).
 
Construction of the world's largest semi-submersible production and drilling vessel is under way for the Thunder Horse development (ExxonMobil interest, 25 percent). The Thunder Horse discovery will be developed in phases.
The first phase of development, planned for start-up in 2005, will have a projected gross production capacity of 250 thousand barrels of oil and 200 million cubic feet of gas per day.
 
ExxonMobil acquired interests in 24 deepwater and 10 shallow-water leases in 2002, further strengthening our position in the high-potential areas of the Gulf of Mexico.
 
 
Canada
ExxonMobil is the largest crude oil producer in Canada, a significant natural gas producer, and holds the leading proved reserve position through its wholly owned affiliate, ExxonMobil Canada Ltd. and its majority-owned affiliate, Imperial Oil Limited (IOL) (ExxonMobil interest, 69.6 percent). The company has a significant presence in the major development projects offshore Eastern Canada and a well-established production base with expansion opportunities in Western Canada. Production volumes on an oil-equivalent basis increased by about 4 percent in 2002 as a result of these opportunities.
 
 
 
Conventional Oil and Gas
 
that are estimated to contain gross recoverable hydrocarbons of approximately 3.5 trillion cubic feet of natural gas and more than 100 million barrels of natural gas liquids. Production in 2002 was more than 500 million cubic feet per day of natural gas and 17 thousand barrels per day of liquids (gross) from the initial three-field development. Construction is under way for the development of the Alma field, which will be the fourth field to be developed in the Sable project. Alma is expected to start up in 2003, and is designed to produce 120 million cubic feet of gas and 3 thousand barrels of associated liquids daily (gross). Construction will begin this year on the South Venture field development, which is the fifth field to be developed in the Sable project, with start of production planned for 2004. A major compression facility is planned to maintain sales volumes longer term.
ExxonMobil assumed operatorship of the Sable Offshore Energy Project (SOEP) on February 1, 2002. SOEP (ExxonMobil interest, 51 percent offshore, 56 percent onshore; IOL interest, 9 percent offshore, 10 percent onshore) consists of six fields
 
North America (continued)
 
Natural gas from the Sable project is transported to markets in the Canadian maritime provinces and the Northeastern United States via the Maritimes and Northeast Pipeline (ExxonMobil interest, 12.5 percent).
 
Offshore Newfoundland, the Terra Nova development (ExxonMobil interest, 22 percent) located 200 miles east-southeast of St. John's, Newfoundland, started up in January 2002 and is producing 150 thousand barrels per day (gross). Located in 300 feet of water, Terra Nova consists of a unique, harsh-environment-equipped Floating Production, Storage, and Offloading (FPSO) vessel and 24 subsea wells that are expected to recover 380 million oil-equivalent barrels (gross).
 
The company also holds a 33.1-percent interest in the Hibernia oil field. Hibernia, located 195 miles southeast of St. John's, Newfoundland, holds estimated gross remaining recoverable oil of 670 million barrels. Optimization and debottlenecking efforts increased gross oil production to 180 thousand barrels per day.
 
 
Sable Offshore Energy Project Tier 2
 
 
The Sable Offshore Energy Project, located 125 miles offshore Nova Scotia in 70-250 feet of water, began production in late 1999. The Sable Tier 2 project will add as many as three satellite platforms, interconnecting pipelines, and offshore compression to the existing development in staged increments. Alma, the first of the Tier 2 fields, is designed to produce 120 million cubic feet of gas (gross) and 3 thousand barrels of associated liquids per day (gross). Engineering and design work is essentially complete, topsides and jacket fabrications are in progress, and pipeline installation is complete. Start-up is scheduled for 2003. Development of the South Venture field is under way.
 
 
Syncrude Aurora 2 and Upgrader Expansion
 
 
The Aurora projects will develop additional bitumen supply to expand production capacity. The developments include two remote mining trains and an expansion of the central processing and upgrading plant. Extraction plant facilities for Aurora 1 and 2 are shown to the right. The first remote mine development, Aurora 1, began production in 2000. The Aurora 2 mine is planned to develop more than 1 billion barrels of gross reserves. Initial production from this second mining train is scheduled for 2004, with the expansion of the upgrading capacity on stream in early 2005.
 
 
Cold Lake 14-16 Expansion
 
In 2002, the company applied for regulatory approval of further expansion of its operations at Cold Lake. The expansion would include three more production stages (stages 14-16), developing 250 million barrels of recoverable oil (gross) through 1,400 wells. With timely regulatory approval and favorable market conditions, production is expected to begin as early as 2007.
 
Mackenzie Gas Project
 
 
The Mackenzie Gas Project will develop approximately 6 trillion cubic feet of onshore natural gas from three anchor fields  Taglu (Imperial Oil Limited (IOL) interest, 100 percent), Parsons Lake (ExxonMobil interest, 25 percent), and Niglintgak  and construct the 800-mile Mackenzie Valley pipeline to transport gas from these fields to the Alberta pipeline grid. The proposed project is in the project definition stage and start-up is anticipated post 2006.
 
 
Heavy Oil and Tar Sands Development
 
The Cold Lake field (Imperial Oil Limited (IOL) interest, 100 percent) and the Syncrude tar sands operation (IOL interest, 25 percent) in Alberta account for the majority of IOL's oil production in Western Canada.
 
The Cold Lake operation is significantly different from conventional oil production. Steam is injected into the reservoir, which increases mobility of the heavy oil, permitting it to be produced. The injection-production cycle is repeated multiple times to maximize economic recovery. Application of leading-edge technologies providing enhanced resource description, identification of reservoir segments not yet contacted by steam, and improved recovery prediction have increased reserves recovery potential and improved economics at Cold Lake. Cold Lake 11-13, also known as the Mahkeses project, started up in 2002 and is expected to add approximately 45 thousand barrels per day (gross) of heavy oil production. This project also includes a power cogeneration facility. Generated power will be used throughout the existing Cold Lake development and sold onto the local power grid.
 
The Syncrude operation involves three main processes: open-pit mining, extraction of crude bitumen, and upgrading to produce high-quality crude oil. Syncrude Sweet Blend, the final product of the operation, is a 32-degree API gravity crude that has market value approximately equal to West Texas Intermediate crude. Since its start-up more than 20 years ago, the Syncrude tar sand facility has become the largest in the world, producing 229 thousand barrels of crude oil per day (gross) in 2002. Net interest proven reserves total 800 million barrels, providing a reserve life of more than 38 years at current production rates.
 
 
The Cold Lake Mahkeses facility, which started up in 2002, includes a cogeneration facility. Heat recovery steam generators make steam to inject in the reservoir for improved oil recovery.
 
Staged expansion is under way to further develop reserves in the area, expand the upgrading facilities, and increase production to more than 355 thousand barrels of upgraded crude oil per day (gross). The next phase of expansion is scheduled to start up in 2004.
 
ExxonMobil holds interests in Kearl Lake oil sands mining leases through its interest in IOL as well as through its wholly owned affiliate (ExxonMobil interest in Lease 36, 100 percent; IOL interest in mining deposits on leases 6 and 87, 100 percent). Planning is under way for the development of Kearl Lake. In 2003, activity will begin on environmental and regulatory work to support a development plan application.
 
North American Gas Market
 
In North America, ExxonMobil is a leading producer and marketer of equity gas, with net production volumes of 3.4 billion cubic feet per day. Gas sales totaled nearly 9 billion cubic feet per day from a diversified portfolio of existing fields, new developments, and joint operations. Gas marketing and transportation contracting activities are focused on optimizing both existing gas and new gas supplies.
 
ExxonMobil is well positioned to meet demand growth, with supplies in major producing basins, and exploration and development activities near key markets. This includes a leading position in the gas resources in the Mackenzie Delta region of Northern Canada and on the North Slope of Alaska. The Mackenzie Delta Producers Group, led by IOL and the Mackenzie Valley Aboriginal Pipeline Corporation, is working to pursue economic and timely development of a Mackenzie Valley pipeline. The intent to begin preparation of regulatory applications was announced in early 2002. While studies indicate an Alaska North Slope gas pipeline is not currently economic, ExxonMobil and other major North Slope gas producers are working with the United States and Alaskan governments on the necessary legislative and regulatory frameworks.
 
ExxonMobil is also a leading player in North American natural gas liquids, managing more than 670 thousand barrels per day (gross). The company holds interests in all aspects of the business from gas production through processing, transportation, storage, fractionation, refining, chemical feedstocks, and propane marketing. ExxonMobil holds interests in more than 90 gas plants, with net processing capability of 4.4 billion cubic feet of gas per day.
 
Additionally, ExxonMobil is the largest wholesale marketer of helium in the world. The company's U.S. operations produce nearly 4 million cubic feet per day of helium, one-quarter of the world's supply.
 
EUROPE
ExxonMobil is the largest net producer of oil and gas in Europe, with daily net production of about 590 thousand barrels of liquids and 4.5 billion cubic feet of gas. The company has exploration and/or production operations in France, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, Norway, and the United Kingdom. Extensive North Sea oil and natural gas production operations and significant onshore natural gas production are among the company's key assets. ExxonMobil's operations in Europe represent about one-third of the company's 2002 net oil and gas production and 31 percent of upstream earnings.
 
 
United Kingdom and Norway Developments
ExxonMobil has interests in more than 100 producing fields in the U.K. and Norwegian sectors of the North Sea, which accounted for 21 percent of ExxonMobil's 2002 net oil and gas volumes.
 
In the Norwegian sector of the North Sea, the ExxonMobil-operated Sigyn subsea development project (ExxonMobil interest, 40 percent) began production in December, three months ahead of schedule, and is currently producing more than 25 thousand barrels of liquids and more than 90 million cubic feet of gas per day (gross). The ExxonMobil-operated Ringhorne platform (ExxonMobil interest, 100 percent) started production in February 2003. The 11.4-thousand-ton topsides lift set an ExxonMobil and Norwegian Continental Shelf record for heaviest lift.
 
The Ringhorne platform in the Norwegian North Sea started production in early 2003. The topsides lift set an ExxonMobil record.
The Grane project (ExxonMobil interest, 26 percent) is expected to develop 780 million oil-equivalent barrels (gross) through an integrated production, drilling, and quarters platform. The project will include natural gas injection for improved recovery. Initial drilling has been completed on the project and start-up is anticipated in late 2003.
 
back to an existing platform. First production is planned for late 2003.
tied
The Fram West project (ExxonMobil interest, 25 percent) is expected to develop an estimated 120 million oil-equivalent barrels (gross) using subsea wells
 
 
In the U.K. North Sea, the Penguins project (ExxonMobil interest, 50 percent) started production in January 2003 and is expected to recover 79 million oil-equivalent barrels (gross).
 
The Goldeneye project (ExxonMobil interest, 39 percent) is planned to develop 135 million oil-equivalent barrels (gross) using an unmanned wellhead platform. Production will be processed at the existing St. Fergus gas plant. Start-up is anticipated in 2004.
 
Also in the U.K., ExxonMobil participated in the Nessie gas discovery on Block 49/20b (ExxonMobil interest, 29 percent).
 
 
Grane
 
 
The Grane project is expected to develop 780 million oil-equivalent barrels (gross) through an integrated production, drilling, and quarters platform, and associated export pipelines. The platform will be located in 420 feet of water. The project will include more than 30 wells with natural gas injection for improved recovery. All major project components are under fabrication. Initial drilling is complete and start-up is anticipated in late 2003.
 
 
 
 
Europe (continued)
 
Fram West
 
 
The Fram West project includes subsea wells to develop an estimated 120 million oil-equivalent barrels (gross). The project consists of five wells in 1,200 feet of water tied to the Troll C platform. First production is anticipated in late 2003.
 
 
Goldeneye
 
 
The Goldeneye project is expected to develop 135 million oil-equivalent barrels (gross) using an unmanned wellhead platform with the full wellstream moved to shore via a 20-inch flowline. The project consists of five wells in 400 feet of water and production will be sent to the existing St. Fergus gas plant for separation.
 
 
Kristin
 
 
The Kristin project will develop high-pressure, high-temperature reserves of 450 million oil-equivalent barrels (gross). The project includes multiple subsea templates tied back to a semi-submersible floating production platform in approximately 1,200 feet of water. Natural gas will flow to the Aasgard 42-inch gas export line, and condensate will export via a 15-mile pipeline to Aasgard C. Start-up is scheduled for late 2005.
 
 
 
Other European Activities
 
ExxonMobil has significant gas holdings in the Netherlands and Germany, and is the largest gas producer in both countries. Capacity is being optimized to meet market demand and peak-day needs. In the Netherlands, a multi-year upgrade of the Groningen facilities and additional compression is progressing.
 
Offshore the Netherlands, one of the largest natural gas discoveries in the last 10 years will be produced from the K/15-FK (ExxonMobil interest, 23 percent) platform. The platform was set in October 2002, only 19 months after the gas discovery. Start-up is expected in 2003 with the project anticipated to recover 32 million oil-equivalent barrels (gross).
 
 
 
In Germany, ExxonMobil's wholly owned affiliate, ExxonMobil Production Deutschland GmbH, assumed operatorship of the combined production operations of Mobil Erdgas-Erdl GmbH (ExxonMobil interest, 100 percent) and BEB Erdgas und Erdl GmbH (ExxonMobil interest, 50 percent). The new company is expected to realize significant cost savings.
 
EUROPEAN NATURAL GAS
 
ExxonMobil is the largest nongovernment marketer of equity gas in Europe and holds a substantial asset base in direct operations, through joint ventures, and in ownership of several gas-marketing companies. ExxonMobil once again achieved record 2002 gas sales in the sizable United Kingdom market.
 
ExxonMobil's substantial gas sales position in Europe is supported by an experienced marketing organization; extensive marketing infrastructure; and ownership interests in more than 30,000 miles of onshore gas pipelines, 400 billion cubic feet of gas storage capacity, and 12 gas processing plants. In addition, ExxonMobil manages more than 260 thousand barrels per day (net) of natural gas liquids.
 
ExxonMobil's broad portfolio of gas production, treating, transmission, storage, and marketing assets, as well as our commercial expertise in the region, support our leadership position in the changing European market.
 
Several significant activities are progressing to ensure continuing alignment of ExxonMobil's gas marketing holdings in Europe with the evolving business environment.
 
Discussions are ongoing on the proposed restructuring of Gasunie and related gas transmission and marketing business. Gasunie is owned 25 percent by ExxonMobil. The planned restructuring is still under negotiation and will be subject to government approvals.
 
In July, ExxonMobil agreed to permit the transfer of shares in the large German gas merchant, Ruhrgas AG, to E.ON AG. This transaction closed in early 2003.
 
Effective January 2003, the unitization of the offshore Norwegian gas pipelines was implemented. ExxonMobil's ownership share in the unitized grid is 9.8 percent, and our ownership rights were extended to 2028. Following a change in the Norwegian regulatory regime, ExxonMobil now independently markets all of its Norway equity gas production.
 
 
 
 
ASIA-PACIFIC
 
ExxonMobil has an established, large, and profitable production base throughout the Asia-Pacific region. Daily net production of 260 thousand barrels of liquids and 2 billion cubic feet of gas represented 14 percent of ExxonMobil's worldwide production in 2002.
 
 
Australia
 
Net production in Australia totaled 122 thousand barrels of liquids and 453 million cubic feet of natural gas per day. The company operates 23 offshore producing facilities in the Bass Strait and the Northwest Shelf along with one crude stabilization plant, three gas processing plants, and one fractionation plant. The Bass Strait contains significant gas resources and supplies virtually all of Victoria's natural gas requirements.
 
Gas sales from ExxonMobil-operated Bass Strait fields to Tasmania commenced in 2002. These are the first-ever natural gas sales to the island state. The offshore Bream Gas Cap development project (ExxonMobil interest, 50 percent) came on-line six months early and is expected to produce 200 million cubic feet per day of gas as well as 10 thousand barrels per day of liquids (gross).
 
near-field exploration drilling programs.
A 3,900-square-kilometer 3-D seismic survey, the largest to date in the Bass Strait, was completed. It covers the entire northern margin of the Gippsland Basin and will help define potential new plays, as well as support additional infill and
 
The Jansz-2 discovery well was drilled on Australia's Northwest Shelf, significantly increasing the size of gas accumulations discovered in the area by the Jansz and "Io" wells drilled in 2000 and 2001, respectively. The Jansz field area represents the largest gas accumulation in Australian exploration history with about 20 trillion cubic feet of gas.
 
 
 
 
Papua New Guinea
 
ExxonMobil holds interests in approximately 2.1 million gross acres in Papua New Guinea containing several oil and gas discoveries. Production is from the Kutubu, Gobe, and Moran oil fields. The Moran oil field development project (ExxonMobil interest, 33 percent) was completed and gas injection initiated in 2002. This project will add 23 thousand barrels per day of liquids (gross) and is expected to recover 84 million oil-equivalent barrels (gross).
 
Agreement was reached with the government of Papua New Guinea on the terms and conditions of a project to commercialize gas in the onshore Hides area. Several conditional gas-sales agreements were signed with potential customers in Australia. A pipeline will be required to transport the gas from Papua New Guinea to the markets in Australia. Additional gas-sales agreements are required for economic development.
 
Hong Kong
 
ExxonMobil has a 60-percent interest in three power stations in Hong Kong, totaling almost 6,300 megawatts of electricity generation capacity, and a 51-percent interest in a company that has offtake rights to 600 megawatts from a pumped storage station in neighboring Guangdong Province. Power demand in Hong Kong and the Guangdong Province in China is growing. At the Black Point Power Station, generation capacity expansion projects are under way, including installation of two additional high-efficiency gas turbine generating units, each with more than 300 megawatts of capacity.
 
Malaysia
 
ExxonMobil is the largest oil producer in Malaysia and the largest supplier of natural gas to Peninsular Malaysia. The company participates in six production-sharing contracts (PSCs) offshore Peninsular Malaysia, operates 36 platforms in 16 fields, and has an interest in five new field developments. In total, the company holds an interest in 1.3 million gross acres offshore.
 
 
Net liquids production increased by almost 20 percent in 2002, to 115 thousand barrels per day, driven by record-high drilling in new projects and existing fields. First production was achieved from the Larut
(ExxonMobil interest, 50 percent) and Lawang (ExxonMobil interest, 80 percent) developments.
 
ExxonMobil's net gas sales in Malaysia reached record levels at 690 million cubic feet per day in 2002, in part due to ramp-up of production from the Angsi development, which started up in late 2001. Net gas sales are expected to continue to increase in 2003, with the start-up of the Bintang development (ExxonMobil interest, 50 percent). Additionally, two new satellite platforms, Angsi C and Angsi E (ExxonMobil interest, 50 percent), are planned for start up in 2004.
 
 
The Larut development offshore Malaysia contributed to a significant increase in ExxonMobil production.
 
 
Guntong Hub
 
 
The Guntong Hub gas development will develop 760 million oil-equivalent barrels (gross). The development consists of the installation of the Guntong E compression platform, which is the first new platform for the hub, together with satellite platforms, workovers, and drilling at existing Guntong, Tabu, Palas, and Irong Barat platforms. The Guntong E platform will consist of an 8-leg jacket and five production modules, and will be bridge-connected to the existing Guntong D platform.
 
 
Indonesia
 
ExxonMobil operates Indonesia's largest producing natural gas field, Arun, which supplies gas to the P.T. Arun LNG plant. In 2002, production from the ExxonMobil-operated Arun and satellite fields (ExxonMobil interest, 100 percent) in South Lhok Sukon and the North Sumatra Offshore field totaled 825 million cubic feet per day of gas (net).
 
ExxonMobil completed acquisition of a 1,215-square-kilometer 3-D seismic survey in the onshore Cepu block (ExxonMobil interest, 90 percent) in East-Central Java. Negotiations with the Government of Indonesia are under way to extend the concession contract in order for development to begin.
 
 
Banyu Urip
 
 
The Banyu Urip field is located in the Cepu block onshore East-Central Java. The development is planned to produce 165 thousand barrels per day, routed via an oil export pipeline to a Floating Storage and Offloading vessel off the nearby Tuban coast. The development is expected to recover more than 250 million barrels of oil (gross).
 
 
 
AFRICA
 
ExxonMobil has a substantial and profitable production base as well as significant growth potential in West Africa, with upstream activities in Angola, Cameroon, Chad, Equatorial Guinea, Niger, Nigeria, and the Republic of Congo. These activities include production in Nigeria, Equatorial Guinea, Angola and Cameroon; major new developments under way in Angola, Chad, Equatorial Guinea, and Nigeria; and a world-class acreage position in the high-potential deepwater province of West Africa.
 
In deepwater areas offshore West Africa, ExxonMobil holds interests in 16 blocks totaling more than 13 million gross acres. Ten exploration discoveries were made during 2002, and additions to ExxonMobil's resource base totaled more than 550 million net oil-equivalent barrels.
 
 
Angola
 
ExxonMobil has interests in seven deepwater blocks that cover almost 9 million gross acres. The company and its co-venturers have announced 26 discoveries in Angola on Blocks 15 and 17, which represent world-class development opportunities with gross recoverable resource potential in excess of 7.5 billion oil-equivalent barrels.
 
On ExxonMobil-operated Block 15 (ExxonMobil interest, 40 percent), four major development projects are being progressed. Kizomba A and B are each designed to recover about 1 billion barrels of oil (gross). Construction and drilling activities are well advanced on the Kizomba A project, with first production anticipated in 2004. Two fields, Hungo and Chocalho, will be developed using more than 30 subsea producing wells. This project will consist of a Floating Production, Storage, and Offloading vessel and Tension Leg Platform, both of which will be installed in about 4,000 feet of water.
 
Kizomba B, the second hub development, is expected to start up in early 2006. This project will develop the Kissanje and the Dikanza fields. Engineering activities are in progress for this development, which, due to similarity of development concept, will benefit from substantial synergies with Kizomba A. Planning for the third development, Kizomba C, is under way to develop the Mondo, Saxi, and Batuque fields.
 
The Xikomba project will use an Early Production System to develop approximately 100 million barrels of oil (gross). This development approach will reduce time to first production, which is anticipated in late 2003.
 
 
 
Xikomba
 
 
The ExxonMobil-operated Xikomba project in Block 15 includes subsea wells tied back to an Early Production System (EPS). Drilling and construction are under way. The development is expected to recover 100 million barrels of oil (gross) with start-up anticipated late 2003.
 
 
Kizomba A
 
 
The ExxonMobil-operated Kizomba A project will develop the Hungo and Chocalho fields, two of the 13 discoveries made on Angola Block 15, in water depths of 3,300 to 4,200 feet. The development includes a Tension Leg Platform (TLP) and subsea completions tied back to a Floating Production, Storage, and Offloading (FPSO) vessel. Drilling and construction are under way. This development is expected to recover 1 billion barrels of oil (gross), with first oil projected in 2004.
 
 
Kizomba B
 
 
The ExxonMobil-operated Kizomba B project will develop about 1 billion barrels of oil (gross) from two additional Block 15 fields (Kissanje and Dikanza). Kizomba B will follow Kizomba A utilizing a similar design including a TLP and subsea completions tied back to an FPSO. Start-up is expected in 2006.
 
 
Kizomba C
 
 
The ExxonMobil-operated Kizomba C project will develop the Mondo, Saxi, and Batuque fields. Development planning is under way and first oil is expected post 2006.
 
Dalia
 
The Dalia development will consist of an FPSO and subsea templates located in 4,400 feet of water in Angola Block 17. Project planning activities are proceeding and major contracts are expected to be awarded in 2003. The project is expected to develop 940 million barrels of oil (gross). Start-up is anticipated in 2006.
Africa (continued)
 
The Reco Reco discovery was announced in 2002 and three additional successful exploration wells were completed at the previously announced Marimba, Mavacola, and Mondo discoveries. Thirteen discoveries have been announced on this block to date, with an exploration drilling success rate of 87 percent.
 
On Block 17 (ExxonMobil interest, 20 percent), production from the Girassol field increased to more than 200 thousand barrels of oil per day (gross). Girassol produces to a Floating Production, Storage, and Offloading (FPSO) vessel, which is designed to handle 220 thousand barrels per day (gross) from 20 subsea wells in 4,500 feet of water. Jasmim, a subsea development expected to produce 50 thousand barrels per day (gross) to the Girassol FPSO, is projected to begin production in 2004. Engineering and design progressed for the Dalia project, which will be the next development on Block 17. Design work on the Rosa development began in 2002.
 
Exploration drilling was initiated on three deepwater blocks (31, 32, and 33) acquired in 1999. Oil was discovered at the Plutao prospect on Block 31 (ExxonMobil interest, 25 percent). The first well on Block 32 (ExxonMobil interest, 18.7 percent) was drilling at year end.
 
 
Towing the hull of the Tension Leg Platform to its location on the Kizomba A development in Angola. It will be set in a water depth of 3,850 feet.
 
Nigeria
 
ExxonMobil participates in a joint venture (ExxonMobil interest, 40 percent) with the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation, for which it operates more than 800 thousand acres in shallow water offshore Southeastern Nigeria. ExxonMobil's production costs remain among the lowest in Nigeria. In 2002, our operations offshore Nigeria produced an average of 520 thousand barrels of liquids per day (gross). Production growth in the shallow-water region of Nigeria will result from satellite field developments, enhanced recovery projects, and a series of platform upgrades, to enhance facilities integrity and production capacity.
 
The ExxonMobil-operated Yoho project (ExxonMobil interest, 40 percent) began producing in late 2002, two years ahead of full field start-up. The development includes an Early Production System (EPS), which uses the Falcon FPSO vessel to bring production on stream ahead of full-field start-up. Current production on the EPS is more than 100 thousand barrels per day (gross) from six wells. Full-field start-up is targeted for late 2004 and will include additional wellhead platforms, a central production platform, and a full-field Floating Storage and Offloading (FSO) vessel, which will replace the EPS. Peak production is expected to be 150 thousand barrels per day (gross).
 
The Falcon FPSO vessel, during construction in Singapore, marks the first deployment of an Early Production System.
 
Full-scale construction and drilling activities are under way on the Bonga development on Oil Mining License 118 (ExxonMobil interest, 20 percent). Bonga is the first deepwater development offshore Nigeria. The first phase of development is anticipated to recover 560 million oil-equivalent barrels (gross) from this greater-than-1-billion-barrel field.
 
Engineering and design activities progressed on the ExxonMobil-operated Erha project on Oil Prospecting License 209 (ExxonMobil interest, 56 percent). The Erha project will be a subsea development tied back to an FPSO vessel in 3,400 feet of water and is designed to produce 150 thousand barrels of oil per day (gross) from 16 wells. The project is expected to recover about 500 million barrels of oil (gross), with first production in 2005.
 
 
Yoho
 
 
Yoho is an ExxonMobil-operated development offshore Nigeria. An Early Production System (EPS), consisting of a Floating Production, Storage, and Offloading (FPSO) vessel began production in late 2002, two years ahead of full-field development start-up. Full-field development will include several wellhead platforms, processing and gas injection facilities and an export system. This development is expected to recover 350 million barrels of oil (gross).
 
Bonga
 
Bonga is an FPSO/subsea development in 3,300 feet of water and is the industry's first deepwater development offshore Nigeria. The facility is designed to produce 200 thousand barrels of oil per day (gross) from 26 subsea wells. Full-scale construction and drilling activities are under way. This development is expected to recover 560 million oil-equivalent barrels (gross) and start-up is anticipated in 2004.
 
 
Erha
 
 
Erha is an ExxonMobil-operated development in Oil Prospecting License 209. The project will consist of subsea wells tied back to an FPSO in 3,400 feet of water. Produced gas will be reinjected to enhance recovery. Contracts have been executed and work is under way on the FPSO, flow lines, and subsea equipment. This development is expected to recover 500 million barrels (gross), with first oil projected in 2005.
 
 
East Area Additional Oil Recovery
 
 
The ExxonMobil-operated East Area Additional Oil Recovery project will consist of gas gathering pipelines, gas compression, gas reinjection pipelines, and associated facilities to minimize flare volumes and to enhance oil recovery from multiple reservoirs in Nigeria. This development is expected to recover more than 500 million oil-equivalent barrels (gross). Major project components are currently being contracted. Start-up is anticipated in 2006.
 
East Area Natural Gas Liquids (NGL)
 
 
The ExxonMobil-operated East Area NGL project will consist of gas-processing platforms to extract NGLs from gas gathered from East Area oil fields and expansion of the Bonny River terminal facilities to handle incremental NGL volumes. This development is expected to recover 300 million oil-equivalent barrels (gross). Start-up is anticipated post 2006.
Africa (continued)
 
The ExxonMobil-operated East Area Additional Oil Recovery project (ExxonMobil interest, 40 percent) will provide facilities to gather, compress, and inject gas at several existing East Area oil fields. This will eliminate gas flaring in the joint-venture acreage and improve overall recovery via gas injection and gas lift. The project is targeted to recover more than 500 million oil-equivalent barrels (gross) over its lifetime. Start-up is anticipated in 2006.
 
Exploration success continued in deepwater Nigeria with five discoveries in 2002: Bosi-2 in OPL 209 (ExxonMobil interest, 56 percent); Bolia 1-X and 2-X in OPL 219 (ExxonMobil interest, 20 percent); Chota-1 in OPL 220 (ExxonMobil interest, 47.5 percent); and Usan-1X in OPL 222 (ExxonMobil interest, 30 percent). Additionally, ExxonMobil executed a Production Sharing Agreement for operatorship of OPL 214 (ExxonMobil interest, 55 percent).
 
Idoho field in the shallow waters offshore Nigeria. Nigeria is expected to be an area of significant growth for ExxonMobil.
 
The company continues to progress development of its significant share of Nigeria's extensive gas resources in cooperation with the government and the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation. Commercial discussions continue with the government of Nigeria for a deepwater liquefied natural gas (LNG) project. In addition, commercialization of the shallow-water joint-venture gas is under consideration.
 
Chad
 
ExxonMobil operates the 1-billion-barrel Doba development project (ExxonMobil interest, 40 percent) as well as more than 10 million gross acres in the Doba, Doseo, and Lake Chad basins. The Doba project consists of a 265-well development and a 650-mile pipeline from the fields in Southern Chad through Cameroon to the Atlantic coast at Kribi. Early oil production from the Miandoum field is anticipated in 2003. Full production from the Kome field is projected beginning in 2004, and from the Bolobo field in 2006. The Chad-Cameroon pipeline, which will transport the oil to a tanker-mooring terminal in Cameroon, is expected to be complete in mid-2003, one year ahead of schedule. The project is anticipated to produce 225 thousand barrels per day (gross).
 
Exploration drilling resumed on Chad Permit H, with two discoveries at the Moundouli and Nya fields.
 
Drilling one of the 265 wells needed for the 1-billion-barrel (gross) Doba development in Chad. Early production is expected in 2003.
 
 
Chad-Doba
 
 
The ExxonMobil-operated Doba project will initially develop 1 billion barrels of oil (gross) from three fields in Southern Chad. The development consists of 265 development wells, a 650-mile pipeline through Chad and Cameroon, and a Floating Storage and Offloading tanker seven miles offshore Kribi, Cameroon. Early oil from the Miandoum field will begin production in 2003 followed by full production, including the Kome field, in 2004.
 
 
Equatorial Guinea
 
ExxonMobil is the largest producer in Equatorial Guinea, and operates two blocks, which cover about 1 million gross acres. Building on early exploration achievements, a successful development program, and optimization of existing infrastructure, production in the Zafiro field (ExxonMobil interest, 71 percent) increased to more than 170 thousand barrels per day (gross).
 
Drilling and construction are under way on the Southern Expansion Area project, which will increase total ExxonMobil production in the Zafiro field by approximately 25 percent in 2003. This project will use an Early Production System (EPS) to recover more than 150 million barrels.
 
 
Successful development in the Zafiro field of Equatorial Guinea increased production to more than 170 thousand barrels per day (gross).
 
 
Zafiro Southern Expansion
 
 
an EPS in 1,640 feet of water. The EPS will also be used for storing and offloading existing Zafiro production. Drilling and construction are under way to support start-up in 2003. This development is expected to recover more than 150 million barrels of oil (gross).
The ExxonMobil-operated Zafiro Southern Expansion project will utilize subsea wells tied to
 
 
 
Other African Interests
 
 ExxonMobil holds interests in three blocks offshore Cameroon: Moudi, Ebome, and Ebodje. Production in 2002 was 4 thousand barrels of oil per day (net). Production from the D1b project began in early 2002.
Cameroon
 
 ExxonMobil participates in the 7-million-acre Agadem permit (ExxonMobil interest, 50 percent) in Eastern Niger. Nearly 350 million recoverable oil-equivalent barrels (gross) have been discovered to date on this acreage.
Niger
 
 ExxonMobil holds an interest in the Mer Tres Profonde Sud deepwater block (ExxonMobil interest, 30 percent), which covers more than 1 million gross acres. The company participated in the evaluation of an encouraging exploration well at the Andromede prospect drilled in 6,200 feet of water on this block. Commercialization studies are ongoing.
Republic of Congo
 
THE MIDDLE EAST
 
ExxonMobil has a substantial production base and significant growth potential in the resource-rich Middle East region.
 
 
Q a t a r
 
ExxonMobil continues to work with our joint-venture partners to further develop the giant North Field, the largest non-associated gas field in the world. Gas resources from the North Field are well positioned and competitive for supplying liquefied natural gas (LNG) to the established markets of Japan, South Korea, Taiwan, and Europe, as well as growing LNG markets including the United States, China, and India. In 2002, three existing LNG trains at Qatargas (ExxonMobil interest, 10 percent) produced 7.8 million metric tons, sold mainly to customers in Japan and Spain. RasGas LNG facilities (ExxonMobil interest, 25 percent) produced 6.1 million metric tons, sold mainly to Korea Gas, with the bulk of the remainder going into markets in the U.S. and Spain.
 
Construction is under way on two additional RasGas LNG trains (ExxonMobil interest, 28.5 percent). With planned capacity of 4.7 million metric tons per year each, Trains 3 and 4 will be the largest and most cost-effective LNG trains built to date in the world. Train 3 will supply the first LNG to India, under long-term contracts with Petronet, with deliveries expected to begin in 2004 at Dahej, India. In addition, the supply agreement provides for a further 2.5 million metric tons per year sales agreement with Petronet, for delivery to Cochin, India. RasGas LNG Train 4 is being constructed to supply Europe and other markets. Trains 3 and 4 are expected to develop 2.5 billion oil-equivalent barrels (gross).
 
Debottlenecking of the three existing LNG trains at Qatargas is under way and will support already-contracted sales to Gas Natural of Spain.
 
ExxonMobil signed a Heads of Agreement with Qatar Petroleum for LNG sales to the United
Kingdom and Continental Europe. This is planned through the Qatargas II project (ExxonMobil interest, 30 percent), with the addition of two new LNG trains that will have a combined capacity of at least 15 million metric tons per year. These trains will be the largest ever built. Initial deliveries of LNG are targeted for 2007.
 
 
 
The Al Khaleej (formerly Enhanced Gas Utilization) Gas Development Production Sharing Agreement (DPSA) (ExxonMobil interest, 100 percent) will further develop gas resources from the giant North Field for domestic and regional pipeline sales. Agreements to supply gas to domestic buyers were completed in early 2003.
 
ExxonMobil has completed a commercial and technical feasibility study for a gas-to-liquids project in Qatar and discussions are ongoing with Qatar Petroleum.
 
 
 
Al Khaleej Gas
 
 
The Al Khaleej Gas (AKG) project (formerly Enhanced Gas Utilization or EGU project) is being developed to supply natural gas to domestic and export markets while recovering associated condensate and natural gas liquids. The related DPSA established rights to produce North Field reserves in support of gas sales of up to 1,750 MCFD along with condensate and natural gas liquids produced with the gas. The AKG project will be developed in phases, as needed, to meet evolving gas supply commitments. Phase 1 will supply gas to domestic customers beginning in 2005. A subsequent phase (or phases as appropriate) will supply gas to Kuwait and potentially additional regional and domestic customers, as well as ethane to a planned ethylene plant.
 
RasGas LNG Trains 3 and 4
 
 
RasGas LNG Trains 3 and 4 will expand on the successful RasGas LNG Trains 1 and 2 project, which is currently selling about 6 million gross metric tons per year (MTA) of LNG. Trains 3 and 4 will develop 2.5 billion barrels of oil-equivalent resources (gross) through an expansion of North Field production and the installation of two new world-scale onshore LNG trains, with a combined capacity of over 9 MTA. Construction on both trains is under way. The first LNG deliveries are scheduled for 2004 and 2005 from Trains 3 and 4, respectively.
 
 
United Arab Emirates
 
ExxonMobil had net production of 86 thousand barrels of oil per day in the Emirate of Abu Dhabi during 2002. The company has a 9.5-percent interest in a concession operated by the Abu Dhabi Company for Onshore Oil Operations (ADCO).
 
Yemen
 
ExxonMobil has an interest in two onshore areas in Yemen  Marib (ExxonMobil interest, 37 percent) and Jannah (ExxonMobil interest, 15 percent)  with combined net oil production of 25 thousand barrels per day in 2002.
 
Kuwait
 
ExxonMobil continues to prepare for the anticipated opening of the Kuwait northern fields and for possible participation in associated redevelopment opportunities.
 
Saudi Arabia
 
In Saudi Arabia, ExxonMobil is the lead company and operator for two core ventures designed to implement the Kingdom's strategic gas initiatives. Core Venture 1 (ExxonMobil interest, 35 percent) consists of gas exploration and development in the northern Rub Al-Khali region. Core Venture 2 (ExxonMobil interest, 60 percent) involves development of discovered gas resources and exploration in the Red Sea and Northwestern Saudi Arabia. Negotiations continue on these projects.
C A S P I A N
 
In the Caspian, ExxonMobil holds the unique position of participating in the development of three of the largest fields in the world.
 
 
K a z a k h s t a n
 
During 2002, ExxonMobil increased its equity share of the North Caspian Production Sharing Agreement (PSA) to 16.7 percent from 14.3 percent. This agreement includes the giant Kashagan field, discovered in 2000, and additional exploration acreage.
 
Appraisal and development planning activities are progressing towards first production, with one well completed in 2002, and two additional wells under way. A 3-D seismic survey was completed to aid in development planning. Following the early oil development, subsequent expansions will be required to fully develop this world-class resource.
 
Also in the North Caspian PSA, exploration drilling encountered hydrocarbons at the Kalamkas prospect. Studies are ongoing to evaluate the commercial potential of this resource.
 
ExxonMobil participates in the Tengizchevroil (TCO) joint venture (ExxonMobil interest, 25 percent), which includes a 380-thousand-gross-acre production-license area encompassing the Tengiz field, an associated processing plant complex, and the adjacent Korolev field. TCO also holds a prospective exploration license that covers more than 600 thousand gross acres surrounding the production license.
 
Located on the eastern shore of the Caspian Sea, Tengiz is one of the world's largest oil fields, with recoverable resources estimated to be in excess of 7 billion barrels of oil (gross). Gross production at Tengiz increased to 300 thousand barrels per day in 2002. Additional projects are planned that will increase total field production capacity to more than 700 thousand barrels per day (gross) by the end of the decade. Engineering and design are complete for the first of these projects, which is scheduled to start up in 2006.
 
ExxonMobil is an equity owner in the Caspian Pipeline Consortium (CPC) pipeline project (ExxonMobil interest, 7.5 percent). The pipeline transports Tengiz oil to the Russian port of Novorossiysk on the Black Sea. The CPC pipeline reduces crude oil transportation costs and facilitates future expansions of Tengiz production.
 
 
 
 
 
Recent projects have increased Tengiz production capacity to 300 thousand barrels per day (gross) and increased proved oil reserves to more than 3 billion barrels (gross). Additional projects are planned that are expected to increase the total field production capacity to more than 700 thousand barrels per day (gross) by the end of the decade and develop an additional 3.3 billion barrels of oil (gross). Front-end engineering and design work are complete for the first of these projects, which is scheduled to start up in 2006.
 
 
 
Development planning activities are under way to initiate first production from the giant Kashagan field. The first phase of development will include facilities that are expected to initially produce 300 thousand barrels per day (gross) and develop more than 3 billion barrels of oil (gross). Several expansions will follow to fully develop this world-class resource.
 
 
 
A z e r b a i j a n
 
Production from the Megastructure development (ExxonMobil interest, 8 percent) in the South Caspian Sea increased to 130 thousand barrels of oil per day (gross) in 2002. With estimated recoverable resources of more than 6 billion barrels of oil (gross), multiple phases of expansion are planned. The Phase 1 and Phase 2 expansion projects are under way in the Azeri field. The combined projects include the addition of three combination drilling, quarters, and production platforms, with a central compression and injection platform. The expansions are designed to add more than 900 thousand gross barrels per day of oil capacity. First oil from this expansion is anticipated in 2005 at the Central Azeri production platform, with the West and East Azeri facilities starting up in 2006 and 2007, respectively.
 
ExxonMobil participates in four other Production Sharing Agreements (PSA) that cover 630 thousand gross acres in the Azeri sector of the Caspian Sea: Nakhchivan (ExxonMobil-operated, 50-percent interest), Oguz (ExxonMobil-operated, 50-percent interest), Zafar Mashal (ExxonMobil-operated, 30-percent interest), and Araz-Alov-Sharg (ExxonMobil interest, 15 percent). The first exploration well on the Nakhchivan PSA acreage was drilled in early 2002, and evaluation of the large Nakhchivan feature is continuing.
 
 
 
 
 
The existing 145-thousand-barrel-per-day gross production capacity from the Chirag platform will be expanded by the Megastructure Phase 1 and Phase 2 projects under way in the Azeri field. The Phase 1 and 2 combined project scope of three 48-slot drilling, quarters and production platforms with a central compression and injection platform is targeted to add more than 900 thousand barrels per day (gross) of oil capacity, 920 million cubic feet per day (gross) of gas compression and re-injection, 1 million barrels per day of water injection and develop nearly 3 billion barrels of oil (gross). First oil from this expansion is anticipated in 2005 at the Central Azeri production platform, with the West and East Azeri facilities starting up in 2006 and 2007, respectively. Phase 3 of the Megastructure development, currently being studied, is targeted to develop the remaining reserves in deepwater Guneshli and Chirag.
 
 
 
R U S S I A
 
Sakhalin Island
 
ExxonMobil operates and holds a 30-percent interest in the Sakhalin-1 blocks in Russia. The initial phase of the Sakhalin-1 Project is a $4.6 billion, 250-thousand-barrel-per-day project that is planned to develop 1.5 billion oil-equivalent barrels (gross). A total of more than 5 billion oil-equivalent barrels (gross) is expected to be developed in Phase 1 and future phases. Construction and drilling activities for Phase 1 are under way, with the first oil production targeted for year-end 2005. Marketing of gas from the Sakhalin-1 blocks continues with potential purchasers in the region.
 
Exploration on Sakhalin-3 blocks (ExxonMobil interests, 33 to 67 percent) awaits PSA legislation.
 
 
 
 
 
The Phase 1 project will include an offshore drilling and production platform in the Chayvo field; additional shore-based, extended-reach drilling to develop the Odoptu field and the northern portion of the Chayvo field; and an oil-export pipeline and terminal infrastructure. Construction and drilling activities are under way and first oil is anticipated by year-end 2005. A total of 5.2 billion oil-equivalent barrels (gross) is expected ultimately to be developed.
 
 
SOUTH AMERICA
 
ExxonMobil has producing interests in Venezuela and Argentina. In addition, the company holds exploration rights onshore in Bolivia and Venezuela, and has an exploration portfolio along the deepwater margins of South America in Brazil and Guyana.
 
Venezuela
 
ExxonMobil operates the Cerro Negro project (ExxonMobil interest, 41.7 percent) in Venezuela. In 2002, more than 100 thousand barrels per day of heavy oil were produced at the Cerro Negro field situated in the Orinoco Oil Belt. The heavy oil is pumped 180 miles northwest to the upgrader plant in Jose, where it is refined into a higher-quality product. This product is then shipped to the 50-percent-ExxonMobil-owned Chalmette refinery on the United States Gulf Coast for further processing to end products.
 
ExxonMobil also has a 25-percent interest in the Quiamare La Ceiba block in Eastern Venezuela, which produces 17 thousand barrels of oil per day (gross); and a 50-percent interest in the 136-thousand-acre La Ceiba block on the southeastern shore of Lake Maracaibo. Preparations for an extended production test of a recent discovery are under way on the La Ceiba block, and commerciality options are being evaluated.
 
 
 
 
Argentina
 
ExxonMobil holds a 51-percent interest in the Chihuidos block, which contains the Sierra Chata gas field, located in the Neuquen Basin in Central Argentina. The company also holds a 23-percent interest in the Aguarague concession in Northwestern Argentina. Net daily gas production of 84 million cubic feet is sold under long-term agreements into markets in Argentina and Central and Northern Chile.
 
Brazil
 
ExxonMobil holds interests in four blocks offshore Brazil located in the prolific Campos Basin deepwater play, in the Espirito Santo Basin, and in the frontier Amazon Mouth Basin. Three wells were drilled in Campos Basin Block BC-10, and resulted in two discoveries. Studies are under way to evaluate commerciality. An interest was acquired in the Campos Basin Block BM-C-25, adjacent to BC-10. If future exploration activities prove successful, resources on this block may enhance the potential commerciality of the BC-10 accumulations. One well was drilled in Espirito Santos Block BMES-1, with a subsequent decision to relinquish that block, as well as Blocks BES-2 and BMFZA-1.
 
POWER AND COAL
 
The Black Point gas-fired power station provides electrical power to Hong Kong and Guangdong, China. Expansion of this plant is currently under way.
 
 
Power Overview
 
 -   Power generation increased 9 percent due to record-high sales in Hong Kong and Guangdong, China.
   
 
 -   Investments to lengthen the life of existing coal-fired generating assets under way.
   
 
 -   Continued improvement in operating performance.
   
 
(1) ExxonMobil share of power affiliate results, except electricity sales, which are stated at 100 percent.
(2) CLP power sales to consumers in China.
 
Coal Overview
 
Sold 50 percent interest in Cerrejn mine in Colombia  exiting all non-U.S. coal activities.
 - 
                 
 
Increased production from the ExxonMobil-operated Monterey Coal Mine to a record 3.0 million metric tons  2 percent over the 2001 record level.
 - 
                 
 
(1)  Reserves are the estimated tonnage of ore materials and coal that geologic and engineering data demonstrate with reasonable certainty to be extractable in future years using specified mining techniques. Coal reserves also take into account any expected loss due to cleaning and processing.
 
NET LIQUIDS PRODUCTION(1)
Including Tar Sands and Non-Consolidated Operations
 
 
Net liquids production quantities are the volumes of crude oil and natural gas liquids withdrawn from ExxonMobil's oil and gas reserves, excluding royalties and quantities due to others when produced, and are based on the volumes delivered from the lease or at the point measured for royalty and/or severance tax purposes. Volumes include 100 percent of the production of majority-owned affiliates, including liquids production from tar sands operations in Canada, and ExxonMobil's ownership of the production by companies owned 50 percent or less.
(1)
         
 
NET NATURAL GAS PRODUCTION AVAILABLE FOR SALE(1)
Including Non-Consolidated Operations
 
 
Net natural gas available for sale quantities are the volumes withdrawn from ExxonMobil's natural gas reserves, excluding royalties and volumes due to others when produced, and excluding gas purchased from others, gas consumed in producing operations, field processing plant losses, volumes used for gas lift, gas injection and cycling operations, quantities flared, and volume shrinkage due to the removal of condensate or natural gas liquids fractions.
(1)
         
 
NATURAL GAS SALES(2)
 
Natural gas sales include 100 percent of the sales of ExxonMobil and majority-owned affiliates and ExxonMobil's ownership of sales by companies owned 50 percent or less. Numbers include sales of gas purchased from third parties.
(2)
         
 
NUMBER OF NET WELLS DRILLED ANNUALLY(1)
 
 
NET ACREAGE AT YEAR END(3)
 
 
NET CAPITALIZED COSTS AT YEAR END(3)
 
 
COSTS INCURRED IN PROPERTY ACQUISITION, EXPLORATION, AND DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITIES(3)
 
A regional breakout of this data is included on page 10 of ExxonMobil's 2002 Form 10-K.
(1)
         
These include near-field and appraisal wells classified as exploratory for SEC reporting.
(2)
         
Includes non-consolidated interests and Syncrude tar sands operations and, therefore, is not directly comparable to data on page A41 of ExxonMobil's 2003 Proxy Statement, and page 4 of ExxonMobil's 2002 Form 10-K, which due to SEC reporting requirements, treat Syncrude as a mining operation.
(3)
         
Syncrude data included above: net acreage of 26 thousand developed acres and 150 thousand undeveloped acres at year-end 2002, net capitalized cost of about $1 billion at year-end 2002, and development costs of $296 million incurred during 2002.
(4)
         
 
PROVED OIL AND GAS RESERVES
 
Includes proven reserves from Syncrude tar sands operations in Canada and, therefore, is not directly comparable to data shown on pages A42 and A43 of ExxonMobil's 2003 Proxy Statement, which due to SEC reporting requirements, treat Syncrude as a mining operation. A description of the Syncrude operation is provided on page 35 of this report.
(1)
         
 
PROVED OIL AND GAS RESERVES REPLACEMENT
 
The data shown below and on the facing page include reserves, production, and costs from Syncrude tar sands operations in Canada. This is a more complete summary of ExxonMobil's exploration and production operations than the data on pages A42 and A43 of ExxonMobil's 2003 Proxy Statement, which due to SEC reporting requirements, treat Syncrude as a mining operation.
 
 
2002 Reserves Changes by Region
 
 
PROVED OIL AND GAS RESERVES REPLACEMENT
Units are million barrels of oil or billion cubic feet of gas unless specified otherwise
 
Calculation based on exploration and production costs divided by oil-equivalent reserves additions. All values exclude the impact of asset sales; i.e., reserves sold and proceeds received.
(1)
         
 
OIL AND GAS EXPLORATION AND PRODUCTION EARNINGS
 
The revenue, cost, and earnings data are shown both on a total dollar and unit basis, and are inclusive of non-consolidated and Syncrude tar sands operations. They are not directly comparable to the data on page A40 of ExxonMobil's 2003 Proxy Statement, which due to SEC reporting requirements, treat Syncrude as a mining operation. The data displayed here provide a more complete summary of ExxonMobil's exploration and production operations.
 
The per unit data is divided into two separate sections: (a) revenue per unit of sales from ExxonMobil's own production; and (b) operating costs and earnings per unit of net oil-equivalent production. Units for crude oil and NGL are barrels, while units for natural gas are thousands of cubic feet. The volumes of crude oil and natural gas liquids production and net natural gas production available for sale used in this calculation are shown on pages 54 and 55 of this document. The volumes of natural gas were converted to oil-equivalent barrels based on a conversion factor of 6 thousand cubic feet per barrel.
(1)
         
Includes earnings related to transportation operations, LNG operations, sale of third-party purchases, technical services agreements, other nonoperating activities, and adjustments for minority interests.
(2)
         
Other revenue includes carbon dioxide, helium, and sulfur. Revenue from these products has been included in "other earnings" in 2002.
(3)
         
Prior years have been revised to include power and coal operations.
(4)
         
 
Oil and Gas Exploration and Production Earnings (continued)
 
 
Downstream
 
Refining and Supply, Fuels Marketing, and Lubricants and Specialties
 
ExxonMobil has refining operations in 26 countries, 42,000 retail sites in more than 100 countries, and lubricants marketing in almost 200 countries and territories.
 
 
employing advanced emission-control technology to provide a full range of clean-fuel products to the Southern California, Arizona, and Nevada markets.
The Torrance, California refinery is a modern, highly complex facility,
 
DOWNSTREAM STRATEGIES
 
ExxonMobil's downstream strategies position the company to be the industry leader, able to outperform competition under a variety of market conditions. These key strategies are:
 
 -   Develop best-in-class cost and operating performance.
 
 
 -   Capitalize on refining integration with Chemical and Specialties businesses.
 
 
 -   Be the company/brands of choice.
 
 
 -   Increase sales of high-value fuels, lubricants, and specialty products.
 
 
 -   Maximize total retail-site earnings.
 
 
 -   Optimize portfolio and invest selectively.
 
 
 -   Rapidly develop and deploy leading-edge technology.
 
 
INDUSTRY CONDITIONS
 
 -  
 
Industry refining margins were weaker in 2002 versus 2001 in all major refining centers. These margins, at the low end of historical ranges, reflected the combined impact of worldwide excess refining capacity, depressed product-demand growth, and generally rising crude oil prices.
 
 -  
 
ting economic conditions in Latin America.
Fuels Marketing earnings were adversely affected by weak industry margins in the United States, Europe, and Asia-Pacific, and by deteriora
 
 -  
 
Worldwide lube basestock margins were lower than in 2001, reflecting rising feedstock prices.
 
2002 HIGHLIGHTS
 
Leadership in safety continues, with further improvement in employee and contractor safety performance.
 
Earnings were $1.3 billion in a very weak industry margin environment.
 
Further initiatives continue to be aggressively executed, leveraging proprietary technology, global scale, and the benefits of our global functional organization.
$1.4 billion of pre-tax operating cost efficiencies and revenue enhancements was achieved.
 
down from 16 percent in 2001.
Return on capital employed was 5 percent,
 
up 6 percent versus 2001, reflecting increased investment required to meet low-sulfur fuel requirements, with base investment remaining flat.
Downstream capital expenditures were $2.45 billion in 2002,
 
was down slightly versus 2001, with lower runs in Asia-Pacific, Europe, and Argentina due to weak refining margins.
Refinery throughput, at 5.5 million barrels a day,
 
with convenience stores now extended to more than 800 sites.
Global retail offering continues to strengthen,
On the Run
 
Customers can enjoy the convenience of at more than 8,900 ExxonMobil outlets.
Speedpass
is now available to 6 million customers.
Speedpass
 
has achieved double-digit sales growth in the U.S. for seven straight years.
Reformulated with continues to outperform competition as the world's leading synthetic motor oil.
Mobil 1
SuperSyn
Mobil 1
 
 
 
DOWNSTREAM COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGES
 
ExxonMobil's Downstream has a global presence with a clear goal  to be the most efficient and effective competitor in every market served. We have achieved competitive advantage in a number of areas:
 
 
 -   The , , and brands are recognized throughout the world and are valued by customers for superior quality, performance, and reliability.
   
Exxon
Esso
Mobil
 
 -   Our operations are conducted from an advantaged asset base. We operate world-scale facilities, in key locations, with the objective of delivering superior performance at all stages of the business cycle.
   
 
 -   Our organizational structure provides the platform to extend our competitive advantage. Each operating company is structured on a global functional basis, ensuring the development of consistent strategies and priorities for each business and market. Efficient execution at the local level is achieved through the consistent application of globally common processes. This functional approach continues to yield performance improvements, with $1.4 billion of before-tax cost efficiencies and revenue enhancements delivered to the bottom line in 2002.
   
 
 -   The development and application of proprietary technology are established ExxonMobil strategies providing sustainable competitive advantage. The competitive strength resulting from our in-house technical capability is enhanced through close cooperation between the technology and business organizations. This alignment of research priorities results in timely and cost-effective solutions to the highest-value business opportunities.
   
 
 -   The ability to fully leverage the scale of our global operations represents a key advantage for ExxonMobil. We utilize the global scale of our operations to deploy proprietary technology to multiple locations, thereby reducing unit development costs. The rapid dissemination and application of knowledge gained in an individual operation to the rest of the global portfolio is a further example of leverage. This best-practice sharing is delivered within the framework of structured management systems, driving systematic improvement.
   
 
These areas of competitive advantage, coupled with the outstanding quality of our workforce, provide a sustainable competitive advantage for ExxonMobil.
 
 
 
REFINING AND SUPPLY
 
ExxonMobil's Refining and Supply business is focused on providing quality products to our Fuels and Lubes Marketing businesses, and feedstock to our Chemical business. ExxonMobil has an ownership interest in 46 refineries, located in 26 countries, with distillation capacity of 6.3 million barrels per day, and lubricant basestock manufacturing capacity of 150 thousand barrels per day. A global supply organization coordinates and optimizes the supply of crude and feedstock to the refineries and the off-take of products. The supply organization also optimizes a global logistics system that includes ownership interest in 40 crude oil and petroleum-product tankers, more than 25 thousand miles of pipelines, and more than 300 major petroleum-products terminals.
 
Successfully Leveraging Global Scale
 
The superior scale of our refineries provides a competitive advantage. ExxonMobil refineries are among the largest in each geographic region, and include three of the world's ten largest refineries. On average, ExxonMobil refineries are 50-percent larger than the industry average.
 
A number of ExxonMobil refineries are concentrated into regional clusters, which enable further operational and supply optimization. Major refining centers are located on the United States Gulf Coast, northwest Europe, Japan, and southeast Asia, and collectively represent 60 percent of total refining capacity.
 
Driving Efficiency Through Integration
 
ExxonMobil manufacturing facilities are highly integrated, with more than 80 percent of refining capacity integrated with either Chemical and/or Lubes operations. The balance is primarily in profitable niche markets. This integration provides advantages through improved feedstock flexibility and lower site-operating costs.
 
The physical integration of ExxonMobil's Port Jerome-Gravenchon, France, refineries and the integration of the Singapore refinery/chemical complexes was completed in 2002. At Port Jerome-Gravenchon, the adjacent refineries have been combined into a highly efficient single site, with 18 new major pipeline connections, control-room consolidations, and support infrastructure integration. In Singapore, the refineries were integrated with eight interconnecting pipelines and a fiber-optics link to enhance inter-site communications. Benefits from further optimizing operations and enhancing feedstock flexibility at the two complexes are providing more than $50 million per year of pre-tax cost efficiencies and revenue enhancements.
 
Work was completed on a pipeline project to link the Kawasaki refinery in Japan with the nearby Showa-Shell refinery to allow optimization of operations and maximize utilization of the heavy fuel oil conversion facilities at both locations. This complex project involved the construction of a tunnel under Tokyo Bay for the pipelines. Integration benefits include more flexible crude selection and improved yields.
 
A new pipeline has been constructed connecting the Sarnia and Nanticoke refineries, which are located 100 miles apart in Ontario, Canada. The pipeline allows the transfer of product components to further optimize operations and reduce future investments for low-sulfur fuels.
 
 
Supply Optimization
 
Leveraging the scale of our global supply organization through supply and logistics efficiencies and crude diversification delivered nearly $300 million of before-tax efficiencies to the bottom line in 2002.
 
Refining centers enable ExxonMobil to capture supply and logistics efficiencies in addition to those generated by the physical integration of facilities. ExxonMobil's global supply team virtually integrates the operations across all the sites. Optimizing the refineries in this way improves decisions on crude purchases, product blending, and inventory management, and optimizes the overall supply chain.
 
Crude diversification and flexibility were further increased in 2002, with 28 new crudes approved and run for the first time in our global refinery network.
 
Continued emphasis on working capital management and supply chain optimization has reduced inventories worldwide. Since 1998, inventories have been reduced by 11 percent, freeing up over $1 billion in working capital.
 
Refining and Supply (continued)
 
Improving Effectiveness Through Best Practices
 
Best practices are rapidly leveraged across the entire global network through electronic e-networks, where both technical and operational experts collaborate to improve operations.
 
Refining and Supply has more than 100 such e-networks, which cover a range of disciplines including safety, health, and environment; process-unit optimization; equipment maintenance; and technology performance. These networks facilitated the capture of more than $300 million of before-tax site efficiencies in 2002.
 
ExxonMobil's Profit Improvement Program surveys were extended to 11 more refineries in 2002, and identified more than $200 million of efficiency opportunities. Multifunctional teams of experts from other locations conduct these comprehensive surveys. The teams analyze and benchmark refinery processes and identify opportunities to lower costs and enhance revenues.
 
ExxonMobil's Global Energy Management System focuses on energy-efficiency opportunities. In addition to individual site programs, detailed surveys have been conducted at 13 refinery/chemical complexes since the program's inception in mid-1999. The program has identified more than $300 million of pre-tax potential energy savings at the sites surveyed, equal to almost 20 percent of their energy consumption.
 
The Reliability and Maintenance Management System is a comprehensive program designed by ExxonMobil to safely achieve higher plant reliability and availability at low, world-class costs. The program has been applied to all ExxonMobil sites and provides a structured, disciplined approach to the management of more than $1 billion of annual maintenance work. Since its introduction, the system has reduced the amount of time that units are down for maintenance by 25 percent and has reduced maintenance costs by almost 30 percent.
 
ExxonMobil's Capital Project Management System continues to ensure top-tier performance in project execution. External benchmarking shows that ExxonMobil continues to reduce project costs by 3 percent per year versus a refining industry cost trend that is essentially flat.
 
 
Enhanced Capital Efficiency Through Selective Investment
 
Refining and Supply capital expenditures are focused on selective and resilient investments to further upgrade safety and environmental performance, meet future product quality requirements, and capture market opportunities with advantaged returns.
 
ExxonMobil proprietary technology is providing a competitive advantage in meeting mandated low-sulfur motor fuel specifications, through the installation of units. Facilities are under development in the United States, Canada, Europe, and Japan, with a number of these projects due for completion in 2003 and 2004. Through application in our own refineries and licensing to third parties, this process will be used in producing about 25 percent of the low-sulfur gasoline in North America.
SCANfining
 
Work has begun on a new $200 million enhanced-conversion project at the Port Jerome-Gravenchon, France, refinery. The project will increase yields of motor fuels and high-value chemical feedstock. It will also provide the capability to meet lower sulfur motor fuel specifications in the future. The project is expected to be completed in 2004.
 
The Baytown, Texas, refinery's 40-thousand-barrel-per-day coker completed its first full year of operation in 2002, and has significantly increased the capability to process lower-cost crude into high-value gasoline and distillates.
 
A new process to convert mineral wax into high-quality lube basestocks is being implemented at the Fawley, U.K., refinery. This proprietary wax isomerization process produces superior performing basestocks classified as "Group III." The new basestocks will complement the company's existing slate of base oils and is especially suited for the European engine oil market.
 
New cogeneration plants are now in development for several refinery sites. These plants will add about 700 megawatts of capacity, an increase of 25 percent versus ExxonMobil's existing capacity.
 
Commercial negotiations and project development activities continued on two world-scale integrated refining, petrochemical, and fuels marketing ventures in Southern China. Important milestones in 2002 included the endorsement of the Joint Feasibility Study (JFS) for the Fujian Integrated Petroleum/Petrochemical Project by the State Council of the People's Republic of China, and the completion of the JFS for the Guangdong Refinery Expansion Project.
 
 
FUELS MARKETING
 
ExxonMobil, Esso
ExxonMobil's Fuels Marketing business creates competitive advantage by leveraging its global scale with efficiently executed standardized processes, while serving diverse customer segments and geographies. Operating in 118 countries, the
,
or
brands serve motorists at almost 42 thousand retail sites and provide more than 1 million industrial and wholesale customers with quality fuel products. In addition, fuels products and services are provided to aviation customers at more than 700 airports and to marine customers at 300 marine ports around the world.
 
Fuels Marketing operates in an increasingly competitive worldwide marketplace. We compete effectively and maximize returns by focusing on achieving pacesetter cost efficiency, non-petroleum income growth, selective and disciplined new investments, and high-grading our retail-site portfolio.
 
Successfully Leveraging Global Scale
 
In 2002, Fuels Marketing initiatives reduced ongoing operating costs by more than $200 million pre-tax.
 
In the Retail business, the retail-site operating initiative, originally developed in Europe, is now consistently applied at most company-owned sites around the world. This initiative focuses on driving down site operating costs. These efforts are generating pre-tax efficiencies of more than $100 million per year on average.
 
Purchasing costs, from convenience-store products to fuel pumps to outsourced construction services, have been lowered through consolidated buying power and through the application of total system-cost analysis, generating capital and pre-tax efficiencies of nearly $150 million in 2002.
 
Our aviation and marine-fuels businesses are global enterprises providing a reliable service to customers, who value the ability to interface with a single supplier around the world.
 
Customer Service Center operations around the world continue to be optimized. In Europe, operations have been consolidated into one Customer Service Center in Manchester, England. The center has 350 employees, who speak ten languages and provide service to 20,000 customers across Europe. In southeast Asia, a similar center is also operating in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, with further such centers planned. Current processing costs for the areas served are down more than 30 percent as a result of the migration to these two centers.
 
 
Market-Focused Offerings
 
Our global functional organization provides the foundation for us to leverage our global resources and expertise with a common focus market approach. This focus market model begins with a global network planning organization that draws on the strengths of ExxonMobil to develop market models and produce network plans that can be adapted worldwide. Drawing on worldwide retail experience, Fuels Marketing has developed a portfolio of market-specific retail formats using a rigorous process that involves assessing customer preferences and market testing.
 
Over the past 3 years, the popular convenience-store concept was extended to more than 800 sites. United States same-store sales are showing strong growth of more than 10 percent per year over the past 4 years.
On the Run
 
 
Fuels Marketing (continued)
 
Strategic alliances with leading food marketers were expanded, based on success with Tesco in the United Kingdom. In 2002, further alliances were piloted with new partners in Europe and Africa.
 
The concept, ExxonMobil's unattended retail format, was expanded to 175 sites in France and Belgium. Benefits from this approach include operating costs that are 40 percent lower than the equivalent conventional site and fuels volumes that increased by as much as 50 percent.
Esso Express
 
with more than 6 million customers, can now be used in the United States, Canada, and Singapore at more than 8,900 , and sites, and at 440 restaurants in the Chicago area. In the U.S., ExxonMobil and Timex, a leading watch manufacturer, have been testing a -enabled watch, an exciting next step in the evolution of .
Speedpass,
Exxon
Mobil,
Esso
McDonald's
Speedpass
Speedpass
 
 
LUBRICANTS AND SPECIALTIES
 
ExxonMobil is the world's largest supplier of lube basestocks and a leading marketer of finished lubricants, specialty products, and lubrication services. Supported by a highly trained field force, a strong distributor network, and a worldwide supply chain that includes a network of refineries and blend plants, ExxonMobil supplies high-quality lubricants and applications expertise around the world.
 
Customer-Focused Marketing
 
ExxonMobil's highly successful lubricant brand strategy is based on research and insights gained from customers. The brands are targeted to meet specific customer needs, and are supported by marketing programs designed to leverage our global scale and communicate with customers in a distinct and consistent style. This approach extends from advertising to product packaging.
 
The brand, long associated with equipment manufacturers and with a reputation for technical innovation, appeals to buyers seeking the highest levels of performance. Customers who desire quality products and need limited technical support value the reliability and efficiency associated with the and brands.
Mobil
Exxon
Esso
 
, the world's leading synthetic motor oil, was reformulated in 2002 using a new anti-wear technology system   taking the product's performance to an even-higher level. For the seventh consecutive year, achieved double-digit sales growth in the United States. Manufacturers of the , , and automobiles in North America added this enhanced product to their factory-fill and service-fill recommendations, joining an already impressive list of worldwide original equipment manufacturers (OEMs).
Mobil 1
SuperSyn
Mobil 1
Cadillac XLR
Porsche Cayenne
Mitsubishi Lancer Evolution
 
To meet tough, new diesel emission requirements in North America, ExxonMobil reformulated and improved the performance of its commercial engine oil brands  and .
Mobil Delvac
Exxon XD-3
 
 
Strategic Global Alliances
 
A strong global presence, worldwide service capability, an integrated sales force, and a commitment to technology enable ExxonMobil to better serve customers with worldwide operations that demand reliable, high-quality products and services. Alliances with global customers include car manufacturers such as DaimlerChrysler, Toyota, General Motors, and Ford, but also extend to other equipment builders and industrial manufacturers.
 
ExxonMobil is a global supplier of premium oils to Caterpillar factories and dealers in more than 90 countries.
 
CEMEX, a leading global producer and marketer of cement and ready-mix products, selected ExxonMobil as its worldwide sole-source supplier of lubricants and in-plant lubrication services. ExxonMobil provides a standardized global package for all CEMEX facilities worldwide, including high-performance lubricants, Mobil Planned Engineering Services, and support from our global logistics network.
 
Formula 1 sponsorships with West McLaren Mercedes and Toyota provide an ideal environment for developing high-performance lubricants that lead to new business opportunities. For example, sponsorship of Toyota's new Formula 1 team helped bolster ExxonMobil's strong position as a primary supplier of factory-fill and service-fill lubricants for Toyota Motor Company.
 
 
Emerging Market Growth
 
In the rapidly growing China market, ExxonMobil manufactures high-quality lubricants at two sophisticated blend plants, and sells products through an established, highly trained sales force and network of more than 400 distributors. This marketing presence and our strong brands helped increase sales by 10 percent in 2002.
 
ExxonMobil was awarded the contract to supply specialized lubricants for the first 14 hydro-turbine units at the Three Gorges Dam in China, the world's largest hydroelectric project. ExxonMobil won an important contract as sole supplier to Sunwin City Bus Ltd. in Shanghai, China's leading commercial center. ExxonMobil also secured supply contracts for polymer modified asphalt in a number of high-profile expressway projects in China.
 
 
Improving Supply Chain Efficiency
 
ExxonMobil improved the efficiency of its lubricants and specialties supply chain in 2002. The finished lubricants product line was further optimized and a new, globally consistent range of packaging was launched. Packaging initiatives, along with implementation of global product platforms, reduced product line complexity and facilitated closure of an additional eight lube oil blending plants. Further supply chain efficiencies are expected from the worldwide implementation of the Advanced Planning and Scheduling System. This system will be fully implemented in 2003.
 
 
These redesigned packages communicate distinct brand qualities in a globally consistent style, while capturing efficiency improvements from the ability to fill these packages on the same line.
 
THROUGHPUT, CAPACITY, AND UTILIZATION(1)
 
Includes the Benicia, California, refinery until its divestment in May 2000. Excludes ExxonMobil's minor interests in certain small refineries.
(1)
         
Refinery throughput includes 100 percent of crude oil and feedstocks sent directly to atmospheric distillation units in operations of ExxonMobil and majority-owned subsidiaries. For companies owned 50 percent or less, throughput includes the greater of either crude and feedstocks processed for ExxonMobil or ExxonMobil's equity interest in raw-material inputs.
(2)
         
Data for 2000 through 2002 exclude Mobil-BP European joint-venture refineries. 1999 and prior years include these refineries.
(3)
         
Refinery capacity is the stream-day capability to process inputs to atmospheric distillation units under normal operating conditions, less the impact of planned shutdowns for regular repair and maintenance activities, averaged over an extended period of time. These annual averages include partial-year impacts for capacity additions or deletions during the year. Any idle capacity that cannot be made operable in a month or less has been excluded. Capacity volumes include 100 percent of the capacity of refinery facilities managed by ExxonMobil or majority-owned subsidiaries. At facilities of companies owned 50 percent or less, the greater of either that portion of capacity normally available to ExxonMobil or ExxonMobil's equity interest is included.
(4)
         
 
RETAIL SITES
 
1999 and prior years include approximately 2,400 Exxon and Mobil retail sites that the company was required to divest in 2000.
(1)
         
Excludes the Mobil-BP European joint-venture retail sites.
(2)
         
 
 
 
 
REFINING CAPACITY AT YEAR-END 2002 (1)
 
n
    
Integrated refinery and chemical complex
l
    
Cogeneration capacity
u
   
Refineries with some chemical production
 
(1)
         
Capacity data is based on 100 percent of rated refinery process unit capacities.
(2)
         
ExxonMobil share reflects 100 percent of atmospheric distillation capacity in operations of ExxonMobil and majority-owned subsidiaries. For companies owned 50 percent or less, ExxonMobil share is the greater of ExxonMobil's equity interest or that portion of distillation capacity normally available to ExxonMobil.
(3)
         
Includes thermal cracking, visbreaking, coking, and hydrorefining processes.
(4)
         
Lubes capacity based on dewaxed oil production.
(5)
         
Off-take 100 percent.
 
Refining Capacity at Year-End 2002(1) (continued)
 
n
    
Integrated refinery and chemical complex
l
    
Cogeneration capacity
u
   
Refineries with some chemical production
 
ADDITIONAL LUBE BASE OIL REFINING CAPACITY AT YEAR-END 2002
 
Capacity data is based on 100 percent of rated refinery process unit capacities.
(1)
         
ExxonMobil share reflects 100 percent of atmospheric distillation capacity in operations of ExxonMobil and majority-owned subsidiaries. For companies owned 50 percent or less, ExxonMobil share is the greater of ExxonMobil's equity interest or that portion of distillation capacity normally available to ExxonMobil.
(2)
         
Includes thermal cracking, visbreaking, coking, and hydrorefining processes.
(3)
         
Lubes capacity based on dewaxed oil production.
(4)
         
 
PETROLEUM PRODUCT SALES(1) BY GEOGRAPHIC AREA
 
Petroleum product sales include 100 percent of the sales of ExxonMobil and majority-owned subsidiaries, and the ExxonMobil equity interest in sales by companies owned 50 percent or less, including the Mobil-BP joint venture that was dissolved as a result of the merger.
(1)
         
 
Petroleum Product Sales(1) by Geographic Area (continued)
 
Petroleum product sales include 100 percent of the sales of ExxonMobil and majority-owned subsidiaries, and the ExxonMobil equity interest in sales by companies owned 50 percent or less, including the Mobil-BP joint venture that was dissolved as a result of the merger.
(1)
         
 
PETROLEUM PRODUCT SALES
 
Market sales are to retail site dealers, consumers (including government and military), jobbers, and small resellers. Supply sales are to large oil marketers, large unbranded resellers, and other oil companies.
(2)
         
 
Chemical
 
 
 
Isopropyl alcohol was the first commercial petrochemical, initially produced in 1920 at Standard Oil of New Jersey's Bayway, New Jersey, plant. A project to increase efficiency and incrementally expand capacity at the Baton Rouge facility will start up in early 2003.
ExxonMobil Chemical's isopropyl alcohol manufacturing plant at Baton Rouge, Louisiana, is the largest of its kind in the world.
CHEMICAL STRATEGIES
 
ExxonMobil Chemical has produced industry-leading returns and earnings growth through the effective implementation of focused long-term strategies:
 
 -   Continuously reduce costs to achieve best-in-class performance.
 
 
 -   Capture full benefits of integration across all ExxonMobil operations.
 
 
 -   Focus on businesses that capitalize on core competencies.
 
 
 -   Build proprietary technology positions.
 
 
 -   Invest selectively in internationally advantaged projects.
 
 
INDUSTRY CONDITIONS
 
 -  
 
Worldwide primary petrochemical demand grew more than 4 percent during 2002. Improved mid-year economic conditions weakened significantly in the fourth quarter.
 
 -  
 
Growth in emerging markets, particularly Asia, outpaced growth in the more established markets of North America and Western Europe.
 
 -  
 
Chemical prices were generally lower in 2002. Price declines outpaced feedstock and energy cost reductions, resulting in margin compression.
 
 -  
 
Margins remained near bottom-of-cycle conditions for most of the company's high-volume petrochemical products.
 
 
2002 HIGHLIGHTS
 
The employee injury and illness rate fell more than 40 percent from 2001. The company received the American Chemistry Council Leadership Award for excellence in employee safety, and health and environmental management practices.
ExxonMobil Chemical continues to lead the petrochemical industry in safety performance.
 
Our outstanding mix of businesses, ongoing capture of cost efficiencies, and feedstock and fuel flexibility resulting from petroleum integration, helped ExxonMobil's Chemical business continue to outperform competition in this challenging environment.
Earnings for 2002 of $830 million were higher than 2001, after excluding special items of $175 million recorded in 2001, as strong volume growth more than offset lower margins.
 
Prime product sales volume of 26.9 million metric tons was up more than 4 percent versus 2001, with sales gains in all regions. Sales in Asia were particularly strong, up nearly 7 percent, supported by recent capacity additions in Singapore and Saudi Arabia.
2002 was the fourth consecutive year of record volumes.
 
The company invested selectively in high-return efficiency projects and incremental expansions in less-cyclical specialty businesses.
Capital expenditures were $1 billion.
 
ExxonMobil's Chemical returns continued to exceed the average returns of our major chemical competitors. Over the last 10 years, our Chemical segment has achieved an average return of more than 12 percent while making substantial investments to support long-term growth.
Return on average capital employed was 6.1 percent.
 
Prime product sales include ExxonMobil's share of equity-company volumes and finished product transfers to the Downstream. Carbon-black oil and sulfur volumes are excluded. `
(1)
         
 
 
FOCUSED STRATEGIES
 
Implementation of focused, long-term strategies has produced competitive advantages that result in superior returns versus competition across the business cycle. These advantages include our business mix, investment discipline, petroleum integration, world-class operations, leading proprietary technologies, and product application expertise. The strategies are designed to increase our competitive advantage and achieve earnings growth and attractive returns, strengthening our position as the world's premier petrochemical company.
 
Capitalizing on Core Competencies
 
ExxonMobil's unique mix of chemical business lines delivers superior performance relative to competition throughout the business cycle. The portfolio includes strong positions in the supply chain for many of the largest-volume and highest-growth petrochemicals in the global economy.
 
 -   , the basic petrochemical building blocks.
   
One of the largest worldwide producers of olefins
 
 -   , including polyethylene, the largest-volume plastic; and polypropylene, one of the fastest-growing plastics.
   
Largest worldwide supplier of polyolefins
 
 -   . Paraxylene is one of the fastest-growing petrochemicals. Benzene is a primary building block for a broad array of products.
   
Largest global producer of paraxylene and benzene
 
 -   . Leading specialty businesses include butyl polymers, ethylene elastomers, synthetic lube basestock fluids, petroleum additives, oriented polypropylene film, plasticizers, hydrocarbon and oxygenated fluids, oxo alcohols, acids, and adhesive polymers.
   
Premier positions in a diverse portfolio of less-cyclical specialty business lines
 
Chemical Profile
 
 -   Highest profitability and return of petrochemical majors
     
 
 -   90 percent of assets in businesses ranked number 1 or 2
     
 
 -   $14 billion of capital employed
     
 
 -   More than $20 billion revenues
     
 
 -   Leading manufacturing capabilities at highly integrated sites
     
 
 -   Products marketed in more than 150 countries
     
 
 
Capturing Full Benefits of Integration
 
More than 90 percent of our owned and operated chemical capacity is adjacent to and integrated with large refining complexes or upstream gas processing. ExxonMobil's long-standing emphasis on petroleum integration is a key component of our strong competitive position. Manufacturing sites are designed and managed to maximize synergies via optimized molecule management, coordinated technology development, joint facilities planning, and the sharing of common systems and support functions. The advantages of integration cannot easily be replicated.
 
Feedstock and fuel flexibility that comes with integration allows ExxonMobil Chemical to consistently outperform competition. Production plans at ExxonMobil's integrated refining and petrochemical complexes are reviewed continuously and optimized using sophisticated models to identify the highest value for process streams. Supply plans are also optimized on a regional and global level in response to changes in feedstock costs and market conditions.
 
Facilities for cogeneration of steam and electricity have been installed at many complexes. These facilities take advantage of available feeds and complementary steam and electricity requirements at large integrated sites.
 
 
Continually Reducing Costs to Achieve Best-in-Class Performance
 
The pace of unit cost reduction accelerated in 2002 as volumes increased and efficiencies continued to be captured. The company maintains a constant focus on improving efficiency and reducing unit costs of manufacturing, selling, and distributing its products.
 
 
Selectively Investing in Internationally Competitive Projects and Businesses
 
ExxonMobil Chemical has increased production and sales using the same disciplined approach taken throughout the company. Returns are enhanced by investing only in projects with unique competitive advantages. An effective system to manage project evaluation, development and execution, and a rigorous reappraisal process, ensure effective investment selection and implementation.
 
The company acquired the remaining interest in Advanced Elastomer Systems (AES) in 2002. AES is the largest worldwide manufacturer of engineered thermoplastic elastomers, under the brand. Several ExxonMobil Chemical products are used as key raw materials for these high-performance resins.
Santoprene
 
Our steam cracker expansion at Baytown, Texas, increased ethylene capacity by 120 thousand tons per year and also improved plant efficiency. The project was completed at less than half of grass-roots cost, and supports continued ethylene demand growth.
 
The Baytown, Texas, olefins plant will advance a project to enhance feed flexibility, improve energy efficiency, and increase reliability. The project, due for completion in 2003, will also result in a slight increase in plant capacity.
 
Expansion of low-density polyethylene (LDPE) production capacity at the Meerhout, Belgium, plastics plant was completed in 2002. The project utilized proprietary ExxonMobil technology to expand the existing facilities at substantially below grass-roots cost.
 
Year-End Key Products Capacity
 
Focused Strategies (continued)
 
 
An expansion of halobutyl polymer production capacity at Baytown, Texas, was completed in 2002. Halobutyl is a specialty polymer primarily used in the inner liner of tubeless tires. ExxonMobil is the largest producer of butyl rubber in the world.
 
Growth of innovative products into the specialty flexible-packaging markets will be supported by a 15 thousand-ton-per-year oriented polypropylene (OPP) expansion at Shawnee, Oklahoma, scheduled for 2003 start-up, and by an OPP-coating capacity expansion at the company's Virton, Belgium, facility, scheduled for 2004 start-up.
 
A project progressed to expand the Fina Antwerp Olefins steam cracker (ExxonMobil share, 35 percent) and will start up in 2003. The project increases ExxonMobil's share of ethylene produced at the complex by more than 50 thousand tons per year.
 
in the world. Additionally, an expansion of a specialty hydrocarbon-fluids plant in Trecate, Italy, will provide efficient supply to the growing Mediterranean and Central and Eastern European differentiated-fluids markets.
The company progressed a project to increase the efficiency of the Baton Rouge, Louisiana, isopropyl alcohol (IPA) plant. The project also results in a 10-percent capacity increase. This plant is the largest IPA facility
 
New ethylene-elastomers capacity in Baton Rouge, Louisiana, will use proprietary metallocene catalyst technology to produce a broad range of ethylene-based specialty polymers.
Exxpol
 
Commercial negotiations and project development activities continued for two world-scale integrated refining, petrochemical, and fuels marketing joint ventures in Southern China. In October 2002, the State Council of the People's Republic of China approved the Joint Feasibility Study (JFS) for the Fujian Integrated Petroleum and Petrochemical Project. The JFS for the Guangdong Refinery Expansion Project was submitted for approval in January 2003 to the State Economic and Trade Commission.
 
 
OVERVIEW OF KEY PRODUCTS
 
In addition to being a leading supplier of olefins, polyolefins, and aromatics, ExxonMobil Chemical has strong market positions in a wide variety of other petrochemicals and catalysts. Our products are part of many modern consumer products. New and enhanced products and applications are constantly being developed to meet evolving customer needs.
 
 
 
VOLUMES AND REVENUES
 
Prime product sales include ExxonMobil's share of equity-company volumes and finished-product transfers to the Downstream. Carbon-black oil and sulfur volumes are excluded.
(1)
         
Includes the United States, Canada, and Latin America.
(2)
         
 
 
MAJOR PROJECT START-UPS
 
 
 
 
MANUFACTURING LOCATIONS(2)
 
 
Includes joint-venture sites, with the exception of the Infineum additives joint ventures.
(2)
          
 
Coal and Minerals
 
COAL AND MINERALS OPERATIONS
 
In 2002, ExxonMobil continued to apply a disciplined approach to asset management with the divestments of its coal operations in Colombia and its copper operations in Chile. ExxonMobil had invested in these assets, operated them profitably, and sold them at a profit. These sales were consistent with the company's asset-management program, which seeks to achieve maximum value from each operation.
 
Coal
 
Early in the year, ExxonMobil sold its 50-percent interest in the Cerrejn mine in Colombia to its joint-venture partners. Operations at the mine began in 1984. Cerrejn eventually became the world's largest export coal mine, with shipments to utility and other customers worldwide. Infrastructure investments in recent years, including the development of adjacent new mining areas, enabled the mine to achieve record annual volume of more than 19 million tons in the last full year of ExxonMobil operation. Operational improvements were also achieved through selected use of technology, such as global positioning for trucks and other mobile equipment, as well as equipment upgrades.
 
ExxonMobil owns and operates the Monterey No. 1 coal mine in Illinois. Monterey's low-sulfur reserves are attractive to electric utility companies in the area. Record production from the mine in 2002 totaled 3 million tons. The results from the continuing operation are included in the Upstream business segment.
 
 
Minerals
 
ExxonMobil sold its interest in copper operations in Chile in the fourth quarter of 2002. The operations, two copper mines and a smelter, were acquired in 1978 from the Chilean government. Selected investments to increase mining and smelting capacity more than doubled copper production in the 1990s to a record 254 thousand metric tons of copper in 2000, making the operation a world-class copper producer. Higher productivity and lower unit costs were also achieved through process improvements, mine planning, and increased equipment reliability.
 
Prior to the sale, two projects at the Los Bronces mine were completed to further increase throughput and copper recovery. The projects were designed to add 60,000 metric tons of fine-copper production annually.
 
Production of fine copper during 2002 was unchanged from prior years. Earnings reflected copper prices that were slightly lower than those of a year ago.
 
 
FREQUENTLY USED TERMS
 
Listed below are definitions of several of ExxonMobil's frequently used financial and operating measures and other terms. These definitions are provided to facilitate understanding of the terms and their calculation. In the case of financial measures which we believe constitute "non-GAAP financial measures" under Securities and Exchange Commission Regulation G, we provide a reconciliation to the most comparable GAAP measure and other information required by that rule.
 
Earnings Excluding Merger Expenses, Discontinued Operations and Other Special Items
 
In addition to reporting U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) defined net income, ExxonMobil also presents a measure of earnings that excludes merger effects, earnings from discontinued operations and other quantified special items. Earnings excluding the aforementioned items is a non-GAAP financial measure and is included to facilitate comparisons of base business performance across periods. A reconciliation of net income versus earnings excluding merger effects, discontinued operations and other special items is provided on page 10.
 
Earnings per share amounts use the same average common shares outstanding as used for the calculation of net income per common share and net income per common share  assuming dilution.
 
Operating Costs
 
Operating costs are the combined total of operating, selling, general, administrative, exploration, depreciation, and depletion expenses from the consolidated statement of income and ExxonMobil's share of similar costs for equity companies. Operating costs are the costs during the period to produce, manufacture, and otherwise prepare the company's products for sale  including energy costs, staffing, maintenance, and other costs to explore for and produce oil and gas and operate refining and chemical plants. Distribution and marketing expenses are also included. Operating costs exclude the cost of raw materials and separately reported merger-related expenses. These expenses are on a before-tax basis. While ExxonMobil's management is responsible for all revenue and expense elements of net income, particular focus is placed on managing the controllable aspects of this group of expenses.
 
Operating costs excluding merger expenses
 
 
Cash Flow From Operations and Asset Sales
 
Cash flow from operations and asset sales is the sum of the net cash provided by operating activities and proceeds from sales of subsidiaries, investments, and property, plant, and equipment from the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. This cash flow is the total sources of cash from both operating the company's assets and cash from divesting of assets. The corporation employs this measure given our long-standing disciplined regular review process to ensure that all assets are contributing to the company's strategic and financial objectives. Assets are divested when they are no longer meeting these objectives or are worth considerably more to others.
 
Cash flow from operations and asset sales
 
 
Frequently Used Terms (continued)
 
Capital Employed
 
Capital employed is a measure of net investment. When viewed from the perspective of how the capital is used by the businesses, it includes ExxonMobil's net share of property, plant, and equipment, and other assets less liabilities, excluding both short-term and long-term debt. When viewed from the perspective of the sources of capital employed for the total corporation, it includes ExxonMobil's share of total debt and shareholders' equity. Both of these views include ExxonMobil's share of amounts applicable to equity companies, which we believe should be included to provide a more comprehensive measure of capital employed.
 
Capital employed
 
 
Return on Average Capital Employed
 
Return on average capital employed (ROCE) is a performance measure ratio. From the perspective of the business segments, ROCE is annual business segment earnings divided by average business segment capital employed (average of beginning and end of year amounts). These segment earnings include ExxonMobil's share of segment earnings of equity companies, consistent with our capital employed definition, and exclude the cost of financing. The corporation's total ROCE is net income excluding the after-tax cost of financing, divided by total corporate average capital employed. The corporation has consistently applied its ROCE definition for many years and views it as the best measure of historical capital productivity both to evaluate management's performance and to demonstrate to our shareholders that their capital has been used wisely over the long term. Additional measures, which tend to be more cash flow based, are used for future investment decisions.
 
Return on average capital employed
 
Tables showing average capital employed and return on average capital employed by business segment are on page 11 of this document.
 
Shareholder Return
 
Shareholder return measures the change in value of an investment in stock over a specified period of time, assuming dividend reinvestment. We calculate shareholder return over a particular measurement period by dividing (1) the sum of (a) the cumulative value of dividends received during the measurement period, assuming reinvestment, plus (b) the difference between the stock price at the end and at the beginning of the measurement period; by (2) the stock price at the beginning of the measurement period. For this purpose, we assume dividends are reinvested in stock at market prices at approximately the same time actual dividends are paid. Shareholder return is usually quoted on an annualized basis.
 
Dividend, Share Repurchase, and Total Yield
 
Dividend yield represents the portion of the value of an investment at the beginning of a period that is received through a cash dividend during the period. For example, a stock worth $100 at the beginning of the year that pays a single $2 cash dividend during the year has a dividend yield of 2 percent.
 
The company also distributes cash to shareholders through share repurchases. We define share repurchase yield as the ratio of aggregate spending for share repurchases (excluding spending to offset share issuance under benefit plans) during a period divided by aggregate market value of the stock at the beginning of the period. For example, a company with 10 shares outstanding at the beginning of the year priced at $100 per share that repurchases $30 worth of stock during the year has a share repurchase yield of 3 percent.
 
Total yield is the sum of the dividend and share repurchase yields. A non-selling shareholder receives only a dividend yield but holds a proportionately larger interest in the company as total shares outstanding are reduced.
 
Finding and Development Costs
 
Finding and development (F&D) costs per oil-equivalent barrel is a performance measure ratio. F&D costs per barrel are costs incurred in property acquisition and exploration (finding) and costs incurred in development activities divided by proved oil-equivalent reserves additions, excluding sales. Both the costs incurred and the proved reserves additions include amounts applicable to equity companies as well as Canadian tar sands operations. We also refer to F&D costs as replacement costs.
 
Replacement Costs
 
See Finding and Development Costs, above.
 
Production Capacity
 
Amount of production which can be sustained considering normal downtime assumptions, based on historical experience. Production capacity is normally limited by either well capacity or facilities capacity, depending on the physical setup. It does not take into account unforeseen events which can impact actual production volumes such as abnormal downtime, OPEC quotas, weather patterns, natural disasters, or civil unrest.
 
Frequently Used Terms (continued)
 
Liquids and Natural Gas Reserves and Resources
 
Proved oil and gas reserves are the estimated quantities of crude oil, natural gas, and natural gas liquids that geologic and engineering data demonstrate with reasonable certainty to be recoverable in future years from known reservoirs under existing economic and operating conditions, i.e., prices and costs as of the date the estimate is made. Prices include consideration of changes in existing prices provided only by contractual arrangements, but not on escalations based upon future conditions. In some cases, substantial new investments in additional wells and related facilities will be required to recover these proved reserves. Proved reserves include 100 percent of each majority-owned affiliate's participation in proved reserves and ExxonMobil's ownership percentage of the proved reserves of equity companies, but exclude royalties and quantities due others. To more accurately represent ExxonMobil's total proved liquids reserves, tar sands reserves associated with the Syncrude operation in Canada are included in all documents other than SEC filings. Gas reserves exclude the gaseous equivalent of liquids expected to be removed from the gas on leases, at field facilities, and at gas processing plants. These liquids are included in net proved reserves of crude oil and natural gas liquids. Net proved developed reserves are those volumes that are expected to be recovered through existing wells with existing equipment and operating methods. Undeveloped reserves are those volumes that are expected to be recovered as a result of future investments to drill new wells, to recomplete existing wells, and/or to install facilities to collect and deliver the production from existing and future wells.
 
Resources, Resource Base, and Recoverable Resources
 
Resources, resource base, recoverable oil, recoverable hydrocarbons, recoverable resources, and similar terms used in this report include quantities of oil and gas that are not yet classified as proved reserves, but which ExxonMobil believes will likely be moved into the proved reserves category and be produced in the future.
 
Capital and Exploration Expenditures
 
Capital and exploration expenditures (capex) are the combined total of additions at cost to property, plant, and equipment and exploration expenses on a before-tax basis from the Consolidated Statement of Income. ExxonMobil's capex includes its share of similar costs for equity companies. Capex excludes depreciation on the cost of exploration support equipment and facilities recorded to property, plant, and equipment when acquired. While ExxonMobil's management is responsible for all investments and elements of net income, particular focus is placed on managing the controllable aspects of this group of expenditures.
 
Volatility
 
Volatility (of stock returns) quantifies the risk borne by an investor holding the stock. Volatility is a measure of the average dispersion of returns about their mean value over a period of time. It is calculated as the standard deviation of monthly returns.
 
Fixed Charge Coverage Ratios
 
The fixed charge coverage ratio, defined by the Securities and Exchange Commission and detailed in Form 10-K, measures the number of times fixed financing charges for the year are covered by available pre-tax earnings (before financing charges) for that year. The ratio is calculated by dividing available pre-tax earnings before financing charges by fixed financial charges for the year. The net fixed charge coverage ratio eliminates interest income from the numerator (available earnings) and reduces the denominator (fixed charges) by an equivalent amount. This calculation is consistent with using all available cash balances to reduce debt outstanding as is done for our net debt to capital ratio to provide a more complete view of our financial strength.
 
 
I N D E X
 
 
Exxon Mobil Corporation has numerous affiliates, many with names that include and For convenience and simplicity, terms like and are sometimes used as abbreviated references to specific affiliates or affiliate groups. Abbreviated references describing global or regional operational organizations and global or regional business lines are also sometimes used for convenience and simplicity. Similarly, ExxonMobil has business relationships with thousands of customers, suppliers, governments, and others. Words like and are used to indicate business relationships involving common activities and interests, and those words may not indicate precise legal relationships.
ExxonMobil, Exxon, Esso,
Mobil.
corporation, company, our, we,
its
venture, joint venture, partnership, co-venturer,
partner
 
The following terms are trademarks, service marks, or proprietary-process names of Exxon Mobil Corporation or its affiliates: and .
Delvac, EMPower, Esso, Esso Express, Exceed, Exxon, ExxonMobil, Exxpol, Label-Lyte, MAXSAT, Mobil, Mobil 1, MSDW, On the Run, PxMax, Santoprene, SCANfining, Speedpass, Stellar, SuperSyn, XD-3,
XyMax
 
The following third-party trademarks or service marks, referenced in the text of this report, are owned by the entities indicated: (W.R. Grace & Co.), and (General Motors Corporation), (Mitsubishi Motor Sales of America Inc.), (McDonald's Corporation), (Mitsubishi Shoji Kaisha, Ltd.), (Akzo Nobel), and (Dr. Ing, h.c.F. Porsche AG), and (Univation Technologies, LLC).
Advanta
Cadillac
XLR
Lancer Evolution
McDonald's
Mitsubishi
NEBULA
Porsche
Cayenne
Prodigy
 
Additional copies may be obtained
by writing or phoning:
 
Exxon Mobil Corporation
Investor Relations
Post Office Box 140369
Irving, Texas 75014-0369
 
Phone: 972-444-1157
Fax: 972-444-1505
 
This and other ExxonMobil publications and
information may be accessed via the Internet:
 
www.exxonmobil.com
 
 
 
 
5959 Las Colinas Boulevard
 
Irving, Texas  75039-2298
 
 
www.exxonmobil.com
 
 
 


