FILE:XOM/XOM-8K-20090330102520.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
The following information is furnished pursuant to both Item 7.01 and Item 2.02.
The Registrant hereby furnishes the information set forth in its 2008 Financial and Operating Review, a copy of which is included as Exhibit 99.
ExxonMobil makes available (not incorporated into this report) a "PDF" version of the 2008 Financial and Operating Review on its website at exxonmobil.com, which some users may find more readable. Hard copies are also available on request from Exxon Mobil Corporation's Office of Investor Relations at 972-444-1000. Materials on ExxonMobil's website are not part of or incorporated by reference in this Form 8-K.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Table of Contents
EXHIBIT 99
 
The term refers to exploration, development, production, and gas and power marketing. refers to the refining and marketing of petroleum products such as motor fuels and lubricants.
Upstream
Downstream
Projections, targets, expectations, estimates, and business plans in this report are forward-looking statements. Actual future results, including demand growth and energy mix; capacity growth; the impact of new technologies; capital expenditures; project plans, dates, and capacities; production rates and resource recoveries; and efficiency gains and cost savings could differ materially due to, for example, changes in oil and gas prices or other market conditions affecting the oil and gas industry; reservoir performance; timely completion of development projects; war and other political or security disturbances; changes in law or government regulation; the actions of competitors; unexpected technological developments; the occurrence and duration of economic recessions; the outcome of commercial negotiations; unforeseen technical difficulties; and other factors discussed in this report and in Item 1A of ExxonMobil's most recent Form 10-K.
Definitions of certain financial and operating measures and other terms used in this report are contained in the section titled "Frequently Used Terms" on pages 96 through 99. In the case of financial measures, the definitions also include information required by SEC Regulation G to the extent we believe applicable.
"Factors Affecting Future Results" and "Frequently Used Terms" are also posted on our Web site and are updated from time to time.
Prior years' data have been reclassified in certain cases to conform to the 2008 presentation basis.
Table of Contents
Meeting the world's fundamental and growing need for energy is a massive undertaking.
Today our industry faces the dual challenges of providing the energy needed for growth while at the same time Technological innovation will be critical in solving these challenges.
meeting demand
reducing our environmental impact.
It is vital that we find solutions because energy is required for economic growth, which lifts the standard of living for people all over the world. At the same time, we need to address concerns about rising greenhouse gas emissions.
Taking on the world's toughest energy challenges.
Every day, employees at ExxonMobil are committed to the pursuit of We do this by delivering safe, reliable operations, improving energy efficiency, and maintaining strong business controls.
operational excellence.
 
We believe that of resources  through disciplined investments, developing breakthrough technologies, improving processes, and integrated operations  generates the most benefit for resource owners, society, and our shareholders.
maximizing the value
Our long-term success also depends on of our employees and the communities in which we operate, as well as helping to prepare today's students to take on tomorrow's challenges.
promoting the development
For over 125 years ExxonMobil has maintained its commitment to taking on the world's toughest energy challenges while delivering superior financial results to our shareholders.
Rex W. Tillerson,
Chairman and CEO
Table of Contents
2
 
Table of Contents
BUSINESS MODEL
ExxonMobil has a consistent and straightforward business model that combines our long-term perspective, disciplined approach to capital investment, and focus on operational excellence to grow shareholder value. We identify, develop, and execute projects using global best practices that ensure project returns will be resilient across a range of economic scenarios. We operate our facilities using proven management systems to achieve operational excellence. As a result, we consistently generate more income from a highly efficient capital base, as demonstrated by our superior return on average capital employed. We deliver industry-leading financial and operating results that grow long-term shareholder value.
ExxonMobil's superior performance demonstrates the strength of our long-term business model.
 
 
Record Earnings in 2008
Functional Earnings and Net Income
Total Shareholder Returns
(1)
(1) Reflects data through December 31, 2008.
(2) Royal Dutch Shell, BP, and Chevron values are calculated on a consistent basis with ExxonMobil, based on public information.
Table of Contents
Business Strategies
ExxonMobil's fundamental strategies are key to achieving sustained, outstanding performance in all aspects of our business. These strategies are not new; they have been tested and proven over decades, spanning the highs and lows of prior business cycles. Through the superior execution of these strategies, ExxonMobil is able to meet the challenge of providing reliable, affordable energy in a responsible manner while delivering superior returns for our shareholders.
Operate in a Safe and Environmentally Responsible Manner
ExxonMobil's long-term safety performance leads the industry. Our commitment to safety, security, health, and the environment creates a solid foundation for superior results in all aspects of our business. ExxonMobil's senior management and employees are committed to the goal of creating an incident-free workplace and our culture reflects this objective.
ExxonMobil drives continuous improvement in environmental performance with the goal of reducing incidents with environmental impact to zero. We conduct business using an approach that is compatible with both the environmental and economic needs of the communities in which we operate.
Uphold High Standards
ExxonMobil adheres to all applicable laws and regulations as a minimum standard, and, when requirements do not exist, we apply responsible standards to our operations.
We believe that a well-founded reputation for high ethical standards, strong business controls, and good corporate governance is a priceless corporate asset. This means that how we achieve results is as important as the results themselves. We choose the course of highest integrity in all of our business interactions.
Directors, officers, and employees must comply with our
Standards of Business Conduct.
Invest with Discipline
The energy industry is a long-term business that requires decisions to be made with a time horizon that is measured in decades rather than months or years and that spans multiple business cycles.
Projects are tested over a range of economic scenarios to ensure that risks are properly identified, evaluated, and managed. This approach enables superior investment returns through the business cycle.
Our proven project management system incorporates best practices developed around the world. Emphasis on the early phases of concept selection and effective project execution results in investments that maximize resource and asset value. We complete a rigorous reappraisal of all major projects and incorporate learnings into future project planning and design, further strengthening our capabilities.
Differentiate with Proprietary Technology
Technology is vital to meeting the world's growing demand for energy. Technological innovation creates resource opportunities by delivering cost-effective solutions in challenging environments, and enables the development of high-performance products and improved manufacturing processes.
ExxonMobil has a long-standing commitment to fundamental research to develop and grow our technical capabilities and to deliver advantaged technologies for all of our businesses. We have a wide array of research programs designed to meet the needs identified in our functional businesses. Over the past five years, we have invested more than $3.7 billion in research and development. Our global functional organization enables rapid deployment of new technologies to ensure early value capture.
Pursue Operational Excellence
Operations safety and integrity are integral to the successful execution of ExxonMobil's business strategies. The objective of operational excellence is embedded in our company
 
ROCE Leadership
Annual Return on Average Capital Employed
Functional Capex Distribution
(1) Royal Dutch Shell, BP, and Chevron values are estimated on a consistent basis with ExxonMobil, based on public information.
Table of Contents
culture and drives continuous improvements in all areas of our business.
ExxonMobil has developed a wide range of management and operating systems that address critical aspects of our business, including: ethics, safety, corporate governance, security, health, environmental performance, operations reliability, business controls, project investment and execution, energy efficiency, profit improvement, and external affairs. The disciplined application of these management and operating systems, deployed through our functional organization, has consistently delivered superior results.
Optimize Results Through Functional Diversity and Integration
ExxonMobil's business portfolio and level of global integration are unique in our industry. Our portfolio of assets provides advantages in scale, geographic diversity, and business mix, and mitigates risks that arise from changes in commodity prices, product margins, and business cycles.
Through integration we are able to capture new opportunities and deliver greater value than any of our businesses could achieve on a stand-alone basis. The combination of our global scale and integration across our business gives ExxonMobil a competitive advantage that is difficult to replicate.
Increase Efficiency Through Our Global Functional Organization
ExxonMobil's global functional organization is fundamental to our ongoing success. Developed over many years, it is built on the common standards, processes, and culture of the company, and generates a unique competitive advantage.
Our organizational structure drives senior management involvement in all major decisions and ensures consistent global execution of our business processes. We continue to discover new ways to leverage the approach and deliver increased value.
Attract and Retain Exceptional People
Delivering outstanding performance requires exceptional people. Our goal is to develop our employees to have the highest technical and leadership capabilities in the industry. We focus on merit-based, long-term career development and are committed to maintaining a diverse workforce. We recruit talented people from around the world and provide them with formal training and a broad range of global experiences to develop them into the next generation of company leaders. Investing in our people creates a sustainable source of competitive advantage.
Enhance Community Development
ExxonMobil has a long tradition of making a positive contribution to the communities and economies in which we operate through programs that seek to foster social and economic development including health, education, and infrastructure. We partner with local institutions, nongovernmental organizations, governments, and development agencies to design our community investment programs. Through the ExxonMobil Foundation, we provide grants to fund projects in areas such as our two signature initiatives  the and the .
Africa Health Initiative
Educating Women and Girls Initiative
Maintain Financial Strength
ExxonMobil's financial position remains unparalleled in our industry. In today's challenging economic environment this represents a unique competitive advantage. Moody's and Standard & Poor's recognize our superior financial strength by assigning the highest credit rating to our financial obligations. ExxonMobil is one of very few public companies that has maintained this credit rating consistently for several decades.
Our financial strength is a competitive advantage and gives us the flexibility to pursue and finance attractive investment opportunities around the world across business cycles. Host governments and project partners recognize our unique capabilities and benefit from the financial strength and expertise we bring to the development of resources.
     
 
Geographic Diversity
Strong Cash Flows
(1)
(1) Net cash from operating and investing activities, excluding changes in restricted cash and cash equivalents, and marketable securities (see page 17).
Table of Contents
Shareholder Information
ExxonMobil's core objective is to deliver long-term growth in shareholder value. Over the past five years, we have distributed over $146 billion to our shareholders through quarterly dividend payments and share purchases to reduce shares outstanding. In 2008 our total shareholder distributions were $40 billion, including $32 billion of share purchases.
In 2008 ExxonMobil raised annual dividends to our shareholders to $1.55 per share, an increase of 13 percent versus the previous year. We have paid a dividend each year for more than a century and have increased annual dividends per share in each of the last 26 years.
ExxonMobil reduced the number of shares outstanding by 24 percent over the last five years through our flexible share purchase program. Reducing shares outstanding increases the percent ownership of the company that each remaining share represents, and contributes to increased earnings and cash flow per share.
 DIVIDEND AND SHAREHOLDER RETURN INFORMATION
(1) Net cash provided by operating activities.
 
Cumulative Distributions to Shareholders
Increasing Ownership
Table of Contents
Safety, Health & Environment
We are committed to high standards of safety, security, health, and environmental care. We continue to deliver results that demonstrate that commitment.
2008 HIGHLIGHTS
Guiding Principles
ExxonMobil is committed to maintaining high standards of safety, security, health, and environmental (SSH&E) care. We comply with all applicable laws and regulations, and where laws and regulations do not exist, we apply responsible standards. We know that operating responsibly wherever we do business makes ExxonMobil a better company. We strive to lower injuries, illnesses, and operational incidents with environmental impact to zero. We believe ExxonMobil's commitment to achieving and sustaining superior performance in safety, health, and the environment is closely linked to outstanding performance in all other aspects of operations. Our unchanging priority is to manufacture essential commodities in a manner that preserves and protects health and safety, and which safeguards the environment.
Safety, security, health, and environmental risks are managed within a company-wide framework that we call OIMS  our Operations Integrity Management System. OIMS is a disciplined, structured, and global approach to managing these risks and is used in our businesses and facilities worldwide. ExxonMobil developed OIMS over 15 years ago, with several cycles of improvement. OIMS has been strengthened to include environmental business planning and safety for office workers. Lloyd's Register Quality Assurance has recognized OIMS as meeting all requirements of the Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series for health and safety management systems (OHSAS 18001:1999), in addition to the International Organization for Standardization's specification for environmental management systems (ISO 14001:2004). The same rigor and discipline that underpin our investment program are also applied in our approach to the management of our performance in safety, security, health, and the environment.
Risk Management
We recognize that risks are inherent to our business, and we take a disciplined, systematic approach to reducing these risks. Business continuity planning and emergency preparedness are two elements that help address risk, and we place great emphasis on preparedness to ensure a quick and effective response to incidents. When hurricanes Gustav and Ike struck the U.S. Gulf Coast in 2008, our emergency response plans were executed effectively, facilitating the recovery of our operations. We are currently assessing our hurricane response plans to capture opportunities for improvement, consistent with our commitment to continuously improve our preparedness.
     
 
Industry-Leading Safety
Lost-Time Injuries and Illnesses
(1) Employee safety data from participating American Petroleum Institute companies (2008 industry data not available at time of publication).
ExxonMobil leads the industry with our low incident rates through effective management systems and a workforce that is committed to a culture of safe operations.
Table of Contents
Safety and Health
At ExxonMobil, excellence in safety and health in the workplace is a core value. We lead the industry with our low incident rates for work-related injuries and illnesses. Based on careful analysis of incidents and risks, we continuously work to improve the safety and health of our employees and contractors. Since 2000 we have reduced our workforce lost-time incident rate by an average of over 12 percent per year. Our approach to safety and health management is yielding good results. But we will not be satisfied until we have achieved a work environment in which .
Nobody Gets Hurt
To achieve this goal, effective safety, security, health, and environmental (SSH&E) leadership is essential. ExxonMobil recognizes that everyone in our workforce can be an SSH&E leader. We are incorporating advanced SSH&E leadership concepts into our management systems and training, as well as enhancing core career development tools and processes. Our objective is to develop and improve the leadership behaviors necessary to achieve SSH&E excellence.
Contractor safety is another area of continued focus. We have rigorous processes to identify, select, and qualify contractors. In recent years, a high percentage of contractor incidents involved workers who were new to the site, the company, or the industry. As a result, we have developed practices to help ensure these workers are effectively mentored and integrated into the workplace.
ExxonMobil continues to strengthen process safety through OIMS in the areas of risk management and facilities integrity assurance. In addition ExxonMobil has taken a leadership role in industry to update facility standards and to develop new standards for personnel fatigue management and process safety performance measurement.
ExxonMobil maintains an active commitment to public health in the communities in which we operate. We believe that self-sustaining improvements in public health are a key
     
 
Greenhouse Gas Reductions from ExxonMobil Actions from 2006 to 2008
enabler for broader economic and social gains. For example in Papua New Guinea, public health reporting systems are limited, so understanding the full scope of disease is a particular challenge. In response we have conducted health impact assessments and have launched disease prevalence surveys to determine the scope of disease our workforce may encounter.
ExxonMobil has a disciplined process to comply with product safety requirements in more than 180 countries where we have business interests. The core of this process is the use of globally consistent product safety warnings. We monitor and assess changing and emerging safety requirements to ensure our products continue to be safe for use by the public.
Environment
ExxonMobil is committed to achieving excellent environmental performance in each of our businesses to Through strong environmental management, our businesses have made improvements in environmental performance. As an example, in 2008 ExxonMobil achieved zero spills from company-owned and long-term chartered marine vessels. It is our objective to operate responsibly everywhere we do business by implementing scientifically sound, practical solutions that consider the needs of the communities in which we operate. We maintain strong management processes through OIMS and adhere to all applicable laws and regulations. In addition our business lines are expected to:
Protect Tomorrow. Today.
ExxonMobil recognizes that rising greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions pose risks to society and ecosystems. We are committed to the development of technology to reduce GHG emissions. We were the founding sponsor of the Global Climate and Energy Project (GCEP) at Stanford University, a pioneering research effort to identify potentially "game-changing," breakthrough science to reduce GHG emissions. ExxonMobil is also a world leader in carbon management technologies and has researched and developed carbon-handling technologies for more than 30 years. In addition to our internal research programs, ExxonMobil supports carbon capture and storage research at the International Energy Agency's Greenhouse Gas Research & Development Program, the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, the Georgia Institute of Technology, the University of Texas, and Stanford University.
ExxonMobil has active programs to improve energy efficiency and to reduce flaring of natural gas in our
Table of Contents
operations. Steps taken in these programs since 2005 resulted in reductions in greenhouse gas emissions of more than 7 million tons in 2008, the equivalent of taking about 1.4 million cars off the roads in the United States. One primary strategy for energy efficiency improvement is investment in the efficient cogeneration of steam and electric power. ExxonMobil has interests in over 4.5 gigawatts of cogeneration capacity located in more than 30 locations worldwide.
We have numerous examples of incorporating this full life cycle concept in our projects around the world.
Our Corporate Environmental Aspects Guide enables comprehensive identification and risk-based assessment of environmental impacts. This guide supports steps one and two in the life cycle of our operations. It provides consistent guidance to our operating facilities and design groups to identify and manage environmental risks.
A Sustainable Approach to Environmental Protection
Understanding the full life cycle of our operations is important to operating in an environmentally sustainable manner. There are four key steps we take through the life cycle of our operations. The first step is to assess the surroundings before beginning development. The second step is to design and construct facilities to minimize our environmental footprint. The third is to ensure the integrity of the facilities we operate, and the fourth is to restore the environment when operations are concluded.
Our Environmental Business Planning (EBP) process contained within OIMS is used by our businesses to update environmental targets and establish improvement plans. This process supports steps three and four as it helps the businesses integrate environmental improvement efforts, such as spill prevention, efficiency improvements, and emissions reductions into the routine operations of our businesses. Guided by our EBP process, we continue to take action to reduce emissions as well as to minimize our footprint in environmentally sensitive locations.
1  Assess
FULL LIFE CYCLE EXAMPLE: OIL SANDS AND HEAVY OIL
Athabasca River  Oil Sands Development
 - 
Slightly over 2 percent of the Athabasca River's natural flow is estimated to be required to support existing and approved industry oil sands developments in northern Alberta, Canada. To help ensure that requirements on the river are efficiently managed, we have taken an active role in multistakeholder water planning processes. These processes are helping to build positive relationships with the local community and contributing to regional water solutions.
2  Design
We look for opportunities to reduce freshwater consumption in the design phase of every new project. A key component of the Kearl project design is the use of water storage to enable reduced water withdrawal during low-flow winter periods.
Kearl Oil Sands Project  Reducing Freshwater Consumption
 - 
3  Operate
Our Cold Lake operations have significantly reduced the water required to produce heavy oil. These deposits are too deeply buried for surface mining, so large amounts of steam are injected into the underground deposits. This softens the resource so it can be pumped to the surface. As a result of improvements since start-up, 98 percent of the water produced during recovery operations is recycled to make more steam.
Cold Lake  Recycling During Operations
 - 
4  Restore
In 2008 we began building three lakes adjacent to Kearl Lake near the oil sands mining area to replace fish habitat that will be lost due to mining activities. One goal of the project is to achieve no net loss of the productive capacity of fish habitat. The first lake is expected to cost $20 million and be filled over the years 2009 to 2011.
Kearl Oil Sands Project  Restoring Loss of Fish Habitat
 - 
     
 
At Cold Lake, high-pressure steam is injected into the ground to coax the oil to the surface.
     
Table of Contents
 FUNCTIONAL EARNINGS
 
Table of Contents
RETURN ON AVERAGE CAPITAL EMPLOYED
(1)
BY BUSINESS
Return On Average Capital Employed
AVERAGE CAPITAL EMPLOYED
(1)
BY BUSINESS
Average Capital Employed
Table of Contents
 CAPITAL AND EXPLORATION EXPENDITURES
(1)
 
Table of Contents
 TOTAL CAPITAL AND EXPLORATION EXPENDITURES BY GEOGRAPHY
 DISTRIBUTION OF CAPITAL AND EXPLORATION EXPENDITURES
 
     
 
Table of Contents
 NET INVESTMENT IN PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT AT YEAR END
 DEPRECIATION AND DEPLETION EXPENSES
 OPERATING COSTS
(1)
 
Table of Contents
 SUMMARY BALANCE SHEET AT YEAR END
 
Table of Contents
 SUMMARY STATEMENT OF INCOME
 
Table of Contents
 SUMMARY STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
 
Table of Contents
The Outlook for Energy  A View to 2030
Energy  in all its forms  is critical to economic growth, development, and social welfare. Meeting the projected increase in energy demand to support growing populations and expanding economies poses many challenges, and will require an integrated set of solutions.
To help us prepare for the future energy marketplace, each year ExxonMobil develops , a broad in-depth look at the long-term global trends for energy demand and supply, and their impact on carbon dioxide (CO) emissions. The results of this comprehensive study provide a foundation for ExxonMobil's business planning and are shared publicly to help build understanding of the world's energy needs and challenges.
The Outlook for Energy
2
The Link Between Economic Growth and Energy
Energy and economic growth have long been entwined: The availability of energy supports long-term economic and social progress; economic growth drives increased energy usage.
So projecting future energy demand requires estimating economic growth and prosperity. Despite current economic conditions, global economic output, as measured by Gross Domestic Product (GDP), is expected to increase by close to 3 percent annually on average through 2030.
Importantly the global economy is becoming more energy efficient. From 1980 to 2005, "energy intensity"  the amount of energy used per unit of economic output  improved by 1 percent per year on average. Going forward to 2030, we expect the rate of improvement will be 70 percent faster than in the past.
Even with significant energy intensity gains, global energy demand is expected to increase 1.2 percent per year on average through 2030. The majority of new energy demand
will come from fast-growing economies and rising personal prosperity in the Asia Pacific region. Oil, natural gas, and coal will remain the primary energy sources through 2030, but renewable sources like wind, solar, and biofuels will grow at a rapid rate.
Transportation Demand Driven by Developing Economies
Transportation provides perhaps the most visible use of energy. Moving people and goods across cities, across countries, and around the world requires tremendous amounts of energy, and that will not change in the foreseeable future. In fact, energy demand for transportation  which includes cars, trucks, ships, trains, and planes  is expected to increase by 40 percent from 2005 to 2030, and represent about 20 percent of worldwide energy demand. In the United States, total transportation fuel demand will plateau around 2015 and decline thereafter. Commercial demand will rise due to increased economic activity but will be more than offset by a significant decline in light-duty vehicle demand reflecting increasing vehicle fuel economy over time. By 2030 total demand will fall about 10 percent from its peak.
The transportation demand outlook for the European Union is fairly similar, with light-duty fuel demand expected to decline as increasingly efficient vehicles enter the market. Commercial-related demand  representing a greater share than in the United States  will continue to grow and offset declining light-duty vehicle demand. Total demand will be relatively flat through 2030.
In contrast China's light-duty vehicle fleet will grow significantly to over 100 million vehicles by 2030, up from 12 million in 2005, reflecting rising GDP and increasing prosperity. China's overall transportation fuel demand, including heavy-duty vehicles and other commercial segments, will more than triple by 2030, growing at nearly 5 percent per year and approaching the transportation demand level in the European Union.
 
Worldwide Economics and Energy
Table of Contents
Transportation Demand by Region and Sector
 
The global growth in transportation demand will be met primarily by oil, which is expected to provide almost 95 percent of all transportation fuel by 2030, down from about 98 percent in 2005 as biofuels and natural gas gain market share.
Electricity Demand Increases Need for Power Generation
Electricity is something many take for granted, yet around 1.5 billion people still do not have access to reliable electricity supplies. As economies grow and access increases, global demand for electricity is projected to increase 75 percent by 2030 versus 2005.
Consistent with this projection, power generation will remain the largest and fastest growing segment of global demand, increasing to 40 percent of total demand by 2030. This is driven in large part by strong growth in Asia Pacific. China, for example, will experience demand growth of more than 100 percent, while demand in the United States and European Union will grow only modestly.
Meeting the expected worldwide growth in power demand will require a diverse set of energy sources. Today coal is dominant, meeting about 45 percent of global power generation demand, followed by natural gas and nuclear. Coal will retain the largest share; however, natural gas, nuclear, and renewables will all gain market share.
The mix of energy sources will vary across the globe. In the United States and European Union, coal will lose market share primarily to natural gas and nuclear power. In China however, coal will continue to be the dominant power generation fuel source due to its low cost and ample supply.
Our estimates of demand for particular energy types in the United States and other developed countries assume that a "cost of carbon" will be adopted in some manner over the next two decades. While actual costs will depend on specific regulations, the implication of such a policy approach would be to increase the cost to produce
 
Power Generation by Region
Table of Contents
electricity using coal or, to a lesser extent, natural gas  and as a result substantially affect the relative economics of electricity supply options.
Growing Worldwide Liquids Demand
Liquid fuels such as oil, condensates, and natural gas liquids provide the largest share of energy supply today, due to their affordability, wide availability, and ease of transport. By 2030 global demand for liquids is expected to grow to approximately 108 million oil-equivalent barrels per day or close to 30 percent more than in 2005.
This liquids demand projection has important implications for potential sources of supply. Non-OPEC crude and condensate production is expected to remain relatively flat through 2030. Canadian oil sands should reach about 4 million oil-equivalent barrels per day by 2030, while natural gas liquids, OPEC condensate and other liquids will also grow, reflecting, in part, increases in natural gas production. Biofuels will also grow significantly, reaching almost 3 million oil-equivalent barrels per day by 2030.
These projected supply levels leave a gap between expected supply and demand that represents the amount of crude oil production needed from OPEC countries. In 2030, the "call on OPEC" is likely to be approximately 38 million oil-equivalent barrels per day.
While the world's resource base is sufficient to meet projected demand, access to resources and timely investments will remain critical to meeting global needs.
LNG Import Market Will Grow
Increases in natural gas demand in major markets will require new sources of supply, primarily from imports. North American production will remain steady due to production of unconventional resources, such as tight gas and shale gas. However, demand growth of 1 percent per year will mean that imports must increase dramatically by 2030 to keep pace, essentially all via liquefied natural gas (LNG). Europe, with falling domestic production, will also need to meet its growing demand with imports from pipelines and LNG. Asia Pacific demand will grow 150 percent by 2030 and will be met partly by imports from pipelines and LNG.
The need for additional natural gas imports will have a dramatic impact on the worldwide LNG market. By 2030, LNG trade worldwide will more than triple versus 2005.
Global Energy in Perspective
When viewed globally, it is clear that the world's energy mix is highly diverse. Today, oil, natural gas, and coal provide approximately 80 percent of world energy. By 2030, oil will remain the largest source of energy supply at close to 35 percent. Natural gas will grow the fastest of the fossil fuels and will overtake coal as the second-largest energy source. Nuclear power will increase significantly, surpassing coal in terms of absolute growth and becoming the fourth-largest fuel source. Hydro and geothermal will also grow, but they are limited by the availability of natural sites. Wind, solar, and biofuels will increase rapidly at about 9 percent per year on average, the highest growth rate of all fuels.
 
Table of Contents
 
In developing this , we assume significant efficiency improvements over time. Compared to 2005 energy-intensity levels, these improvements translate to energy savings of approximately 170 million oil-equivalent barrels per day by 2030  about double the corresponding growth in demand. Achieving these gains will be critical to helping meet our global energy challenges.
Outlook
Growing Energy Demand and CO Emissions
2
The outlook for energy-related CO emissions is linked directly to projections of the amount and type of energy required globally. In the United States and European Union, CO emissions will likely decline about 15 percent by 2030 due to generally flat demand  reflecting increased efficiencies  and a less carbon-intensive energy mix overall.
2
2
China, however, is facing significant increases in CO. We expect its CO emissions to rise 70 percent by 2030, reflecting growing energy demand as well as the prominent and increasing use of coal. By 2030, China's CO emissions will be comparable to the combined emissions of the United States and Europe and represent 25 percent of the world's CO emissions.
2
2
2
2
Looking globally we do not expect CO emissions to peak by 2030. While the United States and other developed countries will be reducing emissions, the economic growth and associated energy needs of developing countries will drive global CO levels higher.
2
2
This highlights the challenge ahead for the world  how to continue to provide the energy necessary to bring billions of people up the economic ladder while mitigating the growth of CO emissions.
2
Conclusion
We draw several key conclusions from our :
Outlook for Energy
Looking to 2030 and beyond, we realize that the scale of our global challenge is enormous, but so, too, is our commitment to succeed and our capacity to innovate. ExxonMobil is confident that by pursuing this integrated set of solutions  while working with governments to create reliable policy and investment environments for these solutions to thrive  the world can achieve both energy and environmental security to support growing economic prosperity.
Table of Contents
Technology
ExxonMobil effectively develops and globally deploys proprietary technology. Our research efforts encompass all of our functional businesses: Upstream, Downstream, and Chemical.
UPSTREAM TECHNOLOGY
ExxonMobil is committed to investing in a broad range of proprietary technologies that provide a competitive advantage in exploration, field development, hydrocarbon recovery, and production operations. Applications of these technologies result in reduced exploration risks, improved well performance, greater hydrocarbon recovery, lower costs, and safer operations.
Table of Contents
Advanced Reservoir Characterization Technologies
Accurate characterization of reservoir fluid and rock properties is essential to understanding and improving reservoir performance. ExxonMobil technologies provide unmatched capabilities in this area to underpin global investment decisions.
ExxonMobil researchers utilize state-of-the-art geochemical laboratories in all phases of upstream projects to ensure the optimal development of resources. During the exploration phase, analyses of geochemical data help predict the location and quality of untapped oil accumulations. During development, analyses of oil composition provide information about connectivity between reservoirs, assisting in the optimal placement of wells. During the production phase, additional analyses help optimize the recovery of reservoir fluids and ensure operational integrity. These applications have been enhanced by the recent addition of a multidimensional chromatograph that provides unparalleled precision in oil analysis.
Multidimensional chromatography provides high-resolution analysis of oil composition.
ExxonMobil's laboratories allow researchers to accurately characterize subsurface rock properties by recreating the temperature, pressure, stress, and fluid conditions found within the reservoir. Capabilities include pioneering technology for whole-core measurements of highly heterogeneous formations such as carbonate rocks found in the Middle East. ExxonMobil has also developed leading technologies for measuring the properties of gas-condensate reservoirs and unconventional gas resources, such as those of the Piceance Basin in Colorado. By providing key reservoir property data, these capabilities have helped improve development and depletion planning and have increased resource recovery.
ExxonMobil has developed a state-of-the-art laboratory for measuring geomechanical rock properties on core samples under reservoir conditions. Knowledge of subsurface mechanical properties is important in various applications: drilling deviated wells in highly layered rock such as shale, understanding fractures in unconventional reservoirs, and determining the effect of directional permeability on productivity in horizontal wells. Such applications are critical in the development of unconventional gas resources such as tight gas and shale gas, and can lead to more successful wells.
Above:
Whole-core technology provides scale-appropriate reservoir property characterization for heterogeneous reservoirs.
Below:
ExxonMobil's state-of-the-art geomechanics laboratory enables directional permeability measurements on rock samples.
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
 
Table of Contents
DOWNSTREAM TECHNOLOGY
ExxonMobil's Downstream technology programs are focused in three broad areas: advantaged feeds, higher-value products, and lower-cost processes. Our long-term commitment to developing and deploying proprietary technology continues to deliver competitive advantage.
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
CHEMICAL TECHNOLOGY
Development and deployment of industry-leading process and product technology provides a competitive advantage for ExxonMobil. Within our chemical technology portfolio, we manage a pipeline of projects that are fully aligned with our strategic business initiatives, including lower-cost processes, advantaged feeds, and premium product development.
specialty elastomers have high elasticity, softness, toughness, and adhesion properties. This unique combination of attributes is useful in a wide range of products from medical garments to packaging materials to diapers.
Vistamaxx
We also continue to expand the applications for metallocene technology to other product families including polypropylene, adhesive polymers, specialty elastomers, and others.
Table of Contents
Integration  A Continuing Competitive Advantage
ExxonMobil is able to capture new opportunities and grow shareholder value through the integration of our businesses. Integration between business functions is a competitive advantage that delivers value through the identification of attractive investment opportunities, implementation of best practices, application of advantaged technology, and optimization of our operations.
OPPORTUNITY IDENTIFICATION
ExxonMobil maintains a unique position in the industry due to the size and scale of our technological and operational capabilities in each of our Upstream, Downstream, and Chemical businesses. We have a consistent track record of identifying and executing world-class, integrated projects that generate increased value to our shareholders and to resource owners. We maximize our competitive advantage by leveraging economies of scale, proprietary technology, unrivaled project and operations management, and optimization of raw materials. For example in 2009, ExxonMobil and our project partners expect to start up the only fully integrated refining, petrochemical, and fuels marketing venture with foreign participation in China.
ADVANTAGED TECHNOLOGY
Advantaged technology continues to be one of the keys to unlocking value in our operations, projects, resources, and products. By taking an integrated approach to the development and deployment of new technology, we are able to concentrate our research efforts in the highest-value areas, driven by our business needs. We accomplish this by maintaining a dialogue between our researchers, scientists, engineers, and operating functions to identify key business challenges that require technical solutions. This technology advantage is enhanced further by ExxonMobil's ability to rapidly deploy technological breakthroughs through our global functional organization.
IMPLEMENTATION OF BEST PRACTICES
Integration across all of ExxonMobil's business operations  Upstream, Downstream, and Chemical  allows us to capture benefits by sharing best practices. Using centralized support services as well as common systems and processes, we are able to leverage the expertise of our employees around the world. For example our credit and cash management activities are managed using global processes and risk tolerances ensuring a consistent approach to managing risk. Similarly we have a single capital project management system for all of our businesses that takes advantage of our time-tested and consistent best practices: optimized concept selection, comprehensive project planning, disciplined project execution, and reappraisal of project performance.
OPERATIONAL OPTIMIZATION
We optimize operations across our functional businesses by sharing best practices as well as utilizing proprietary technologies. For example in our refineries and chemical plants, we use integrated process models that enable feedstocks to be specifically tailored to maximize their value. Our Molecule Management technology includes advanced molecular fingerprinting and modeling tools that enable us to process the optimal mix of crudes and maximize the yield of higher-value products and feedstocks. Similarly sophisticated process control technologies optimize unit performance, increase reliability, and reduce operating costs. Maximizing the value of every molecule is just one of the many benefits of optimizing operations.
Table of Contents
30
Upstream
Exploration, Development, Production, and Gas & Power Marketing
UPSTREAM STRATEGIES
ExxonMobil's fundamental Upstream strategies guide our global exploration, development, production, and gas and power marketing activities:
These strategies are underpinned by a relentless focus on operational excellence, commitment to innovative technologies, development of our employees, and investment in the communities in which we operate. ExxonMobil's ability to integrate and execute these strategies consistently delivers superior long-term value.
 
Qatargas II Train 4 will be the first of four 7.8-million-tons-per-year liquefaction facilities to be commissioned in 2009. These facilities will be the largest in the world with 50 percent more capacity than any existing liquefaction facility.
Table of Contents
2008 Results and Highlights
Industry-leading workforce safety performance.
Earnings were a record $35.4 billion.
Upstream return on average capital employed was 54 percent,
and has averaged 44 percent over the past five years.
Earnings per oil-equivalent barrel were $24.67,
exceeding those of our competitors.
Total liquids production and natural gas production available for sale was 3.9 million oil-equivalent barrels per day,
the highest among our competitors.
Replaced 103 percent of production with proved oil and gas reserve additions of 1.5 billion oil-equivalent barrels,
including asset sales and excluding year-end price/cost effects.
Upstream Return on Average Capital Employed
 
Resource base additions totaled 2.2 billion oil-equivalent barrels.
ExxonMobil's resource base now stands at 72 billion oil-equivalent barrels.
Finding and resource-acquisition costs were $1.32 per oil-equivalent barrel.
Upstream capital and exploration spending was $19.7 billion,
driven by an active exploration program, selective investment in a strong portfolio of development projects, and continued investment to enhance the value of existing assets.
UPSTREAM COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGES
Portfolio
Quality  - 
The quality, size, and diversity of ExxonMobil's resource base and project inventory underpin a strong long-term outlook.
Global Integration  - 
The global functional Upstream companies work with the Downstream and Chemical businesses to identify and deliver integrated solutions that maximize resource value.
Discipline and
Consistency  - 
We explore, develop, produce, and market using globally deployed management systems that ensure consistent application of the highest technical, operational, and commercial standards.
Value Maximization  - 
From optimum development concept selection continuing through mid- and late-life investments to increase reservoir recovery, ExxonMobil maximizes resource value over the life of each asset.
Long-Term Perspective  - 
Consistent, selective capital investment and focused technology development ensure robust investments over the long term.
 
Table of Contents
Identify and Pursue All Attractive Exploration Opportunities
ExxonMobil's exploration strategy is to identify, evaluate, pursue, and capture the highest quality opportunities around the world. Our global organization explores in diverse geological and geographical environments, covering the full range of resource life cycle and type including:
ExxonMobil's disciplined, systematic exploration process consistently delivers an industry-leading portfolio of highly prospective opportunities that promote long-term resource additions and production growth. Our global reach and approach ensure a broad exposure to high-quality opportunities  from conventional by-the-bit exploration to opportunities that require close integration between the Upstream, Downstream, and Chemical businesses. The combination of world-class technical expertise and an extensive global exploration database provides a distinct competitive advantage in the identification, evaluation, pursuit, and capture of new opportunities.
We use our unique geoscience capabilities and understanding of the global hydrocarbon endowment to identify and prioritize all quality resources. Once identified, opportunities are assessed and screened for technical and economic viability, as well as materiality, on a globally
Seismic acquisition activities commenced in 2008 at ExxonMobil's Arctic exploration play, offshore west Greenland.
 
Exploration Acreage Position by Region
 
consistent basis. Only the most robust opportunities are selected for further evaluation and investment.
Our systematic approach to exploration has resulted in the successful capture of numerous new, high-potential resource addition opportunities each year. These opportunities include conventional and unconventional resource types in new, untested areas as well as established ones. In 2008 ExxonMobil successfully captured new opportunities in eight different countries.
At year-end 2008, ExxonMobil's net exploration acreage totaled 73 million acres in 33 countries. Since 2004 ExxonMobil's exploration acreage position has increased by approximately 18 percent. This strong acreage position provides a high-quality, geographically and geologically diverse portfolio of opportunities to underpin future resource additions and production growth.
 
Resource Additions/Acquisitions by Geographic Region
(percent, oil-equivalent barrels added, 2004-2008)
Resource Additions/Acquisitions by Resource Type
(percent, oil-equivalent barrels added, 2004-2008)
Table of Contents
2008 KEY EXPLORATION CAPTURES
ExxonMobil Canada and majority-owned affiliate Imperial Oil Limited were jointly awarded approximately 76,000 net acres in the Horn River Basin shale gas play, in northeast British Columbia. Including acreage captured in 2007, ExxonMobil's total net acreage position is 152,000 acres.
Canada
 - 
ExxonMobil acquired 184,300 acres (ExxonMobil interest, 33.5 percent) in the Mako Trough in southeast Hungary. ExxonMobil will acquire a 50-percent interest in an additional 386,800 acres upon completion of a work program that includes drilling, well testing, and reservoir evaluation.
Hungary
 - 
ExxonMobil was awarded operatorship of the Gunting Block (ExxonMobil interest, 100 percent) located onshore and offshore East Java. The block comprises 406,500 acres.
Indonesia
 - 
ExxonMobil was awarded two exploration licenses in the Porcupine Basin of the Irish Sea. The licenses are located in water depths exceeding 6500 feet, and together comprise an area totaling 778,700 acres. ExxonMobil operates these licenses with an 80-percent interest.
Ireland
 - 
ExxonMobil was awarded operatorship of Contract Area 21 (ExxonMobil interest, 100 percent). The contract area comprises 2.5 million acres and is 110 miles offshore in water depths ranging from approximately 5400 feet to 8700 feet.
Libya
 - 
ExxonMobil successfully concluded an agreement to acquire equity in Oil Prospecting License 223 (ExxonMobil interest, 27 percent). The license covers an area of 229,000 acres in the deep water offshore Nigeria.
Nigeria
 - 
ExxonMobil signed an agreement to participate in the exploration of the Neptun Block (ExxonMobil interest, 50 percent) in the Black Sea offshore Romania. The agreement covers an area of approximately 1.8 million acres.
Romania
 - 
ExxonMobil expanded its position in the Piceance Basin, Colorado, by acquiring an additional 17,500 acres (ExxonMobil interest, 35 percent).
U.S. Onshore
 - 
ExxonMobil was awarded six leases totaling 19,400 acres (ExxonMobil interest, 100 percent) in the Pennsylvania State Forest Lease Sale in 2008. These leases are part of the Marcellus shale gas play.
ExxonMobil was awarded 128 blocks in the Gulf of Mexico Western Sale 207 and 14 blocks in the Gulf of Mexico Central Sale 206. ExxonMobil also received equity (ExxonMobil interest, 50 percent) in central Gulf of Mexico blocks WR540 and WR583 through the creation of the ExxonMobil-operated Julia Unit.
U.S. Gulf of Mexico
 - 
 
Table of Contents
Invest in Projects that Deliver Superior Returns
ExxonMobil continues to focus on disciplined investment decisions and industry-leading project execution to deliver superior returns from Upstream projects.
As project scale and complexity increase across the industry, the challenge to bring new energy supplies to market on time and within budget is growing. ExxonMobil's project management systems leverage global best practices from previous projects to provide a disciplined and consistent approach to the diverse execution challenges around the world.
Superior project execution begins with selecting the design and operating concept that will be robust through a range of uncertainties and that will deliver maximum value over the life of the asset. It requires a commitment to and investment in technology to develop innovative solutions that lower costs, increase reliability, and deliver profitable volumes. ExxonMobil spends a great deal of time on execution planning to minimize cost and schedule risks during the execution phase of major projects.
The combination of global processes, proprietary technology, and project management expertise results in industry-leading project execution performance.
ExxonMobil has a large portfolio of project opportunities that is both global and diverse. Many of these developments are located in challenging environments and include deepwater, heavy oil/oil sands, unconventional gas, arctic, liquefied natural gas (LNG), and acid/sour gas projects. With a portfolio of more than 120 projects expected to develop over 24 billion oil-equivalent barrels (net), ExxonMobil selectively funds those projects that deliver robust financial performance and maximize profitable volumes growth over a wide range of economic conditions.
Project Execution Performance
ExxonMobil development teams use a combination of global processes, proprietary technology, and project management expertise to deliver industry-leading project execution performance.
 
Diverse Project Portfolio
Table of Contents
Maximize Profitability of Existing Oil and Gas Production
ExxonMobil applies the most cost-effective technology and operations management systems to all assets to maximize the commercial recovery of hydrocarbons.
ExxonMobil leverages its global functional organization to manage oil and gas assets through rapid technology transfer and best practices application. Our organizational structure and consistent processes enable the company to define priorities on a worldwide basis and to deploy resources when and where they are needed, drawing on an experienced, dedicated, and diverse workforce of exceptional quality.
We place significant focus on managing and optimizing base performance and continuously generating opportunities to maximize the value of our assets. High-quality reservoir management and rigorous depletion planning ensure optimum long-term field performance and enhance production from existing wells. We continually invest in our asset base to enhance resource recovery, maximize profitability, and extend field life. New production volumes are generated through drilling new wells, workovers, and implementing secondary or tertiary recovery programs.
ExxonMobil is recognized as an industry leader in the application of cost-effective technologies for enhanced oil recovery. These include using water or gas injection, heavy oil steamflooding, and sour gas injection techniques to increase reservoir recovery.
Production is maximized through a disciplined focus on operational integrity and by leveraging global best practices to improve facility reliability. For instance, maintenance activities are rigorously planned and executed resulting in optimized schedules and higher uptime.
All of these activities are performed with a structured focus on cost management and capital discipline in combination with a steadfast commitment to operational excellence. Operations integrity is fundamental to our success and is a top priority. Within the Operations Integrity Management System (OIMS), integrity management processes address all aspects of the business and define the global standards for safe and environmentally sound operations.
The asset base is continuously under review to ensure that every asset is contributing to our strategic objectives to the maximum extent possible. ExxonMobil consistently delivers higher earnings per barrel than our competitors. This is a direct reflection of our commitment to investment discipline, superior execution, and ability to maximize resource recovery.
Upstream Earnings per Barrel
 
Production Volumes Added Through Work Programs
Average Uptime Performance
Table of Contents
Capitalize on Growing Natural Gas and Power Markets
Reliable economic supplies of natural gas and power are fundamental to the world's economic growth. ExxonMobil leverages its network of commercial experts and knowledge of global energy markets to capture the full value of growing gas and power markets.
We sell about 11 billion cubic feet of gas a day to a diverse customer base, from marketers and distributors to end consumers such as large power plants and industrial users. We also manage about 1 million barrels per day of natural gas liquids, generate a significant amount of power, and are a leading marketer of helium.
In North America, ExxonMobil is a major gas producer and processor with production from the Gulf of Mexico, the onshore Gulf Coast, the mid-continent of the United States, western Canada, and offshore eastern Canada. We continue development activities to increase production from our significant tight gas resources in the Piceance Basin in Colorado. In Canada, ExxonMobil acquired acreage in the Horn River shale gas play and has begun exploratory drilling. ExxonMobil also has a leading position in arctic gas resources in the Mackenzie Delta region of northern Canada and on the North Slope of Alaska.
Liquefied natural gas (LNG) will play an increasing role in our activities in the United States. The Golden Pass LNG regasification terminal in Texas is scheduled to start up in 2010, and we continue to seek regulatory approvals for a new LNG terminal offshore New Jersey.
In addition ExxonMobil is one of the world's leading producers of helium through our Shute Creek gas processing plant in Wyoming.
In Europe, ExxonMobil is a leading gas producer through ownership in many key assets in the Netherlands, Germany, and the North Sea. LNG will also play an increasing role in our European supply portfolio. The first LNG cargo is expected to be received in early 2009 at the newly constructed South Hook LNG terminal in Wales. We are also completing construction of the Adriatic LNG terminal offshore Italy, which is expected to receive its first cargo in 2009.
In addition ExxonMobil is exploring several unconventional gas opportunities in Europe to help meet the region's future demand for new supplies.
In Asia Pacific, ExxonMobil remains among the largest suppliers of gas in Australia and Malaysia, and also sells gas in Thailand, far east Russia, and Qatar. Our LNG ventures in Indonesia and Qatar provide significant volumes of gas to key European and Asian markets, including Japan, South Korea, Taiwan, and India.
Power Activities
ExxonMobil has interests in about 16,000 megawatts of power generation capacity worldwide. This includes a majority interest in the Castle Peak Power Company that generates electricity for consumers in Hong Kong and mainland China. ExxonMobil is an industry leader in the application of cogeneration technology with interests in more than 4500 megawatts of capacity used primarily to efficiently supply our own power and steam demands.
Integrated Approach
A major strength of ExxonMobil is the ability to combine our Upstream, Downstream, and Chemical businesses to create integrated solutions. This, together with our presence in all major supply and demand regions, provides us with a competitive advantage and positions us strongly to help meet the world's growing natural gas and power demands.
Table of Contents
LNG MARKET
Liquefied natural gas (LNG) is expected to play an increasing role in meeting the world's energy demand. Global LNG demand is projected to grow about 4 percent per year through 2030, approaching 500 million tons per year or 15 percent of the world's gas demand.
The expansion of global LNG infrastructure has enabled local gas markets to balance seasonal demands. ExxonMobil LNG ventures have the ability to sell into both liquid and non-liquid markets to maximize the value of our natural gas resources.
ExxonMobil is currently participating in LNG production in Qatar and Indonesia with a combined gross capacity of approximately 35 million tons per year, supplying markets in Asia, Europe, and North America. In Qatar, the world's four largest LNG trains are expected to start up in 2009 with commissioning of the first train nearing completion in early 2009. Total gross capacity from these trains will be over 30 million tons of LNG per year. In 2008 ExxonMobil together with Qatar Petroleum added 20 vessels to their LNG shipping fleet.
In Asia Pacific, ExxonMobil is progressing the development of the Gorgon Jansz and PNG LNG projects. In addition we are pursuing new LNG project opportunities in Australia and West Africa.
Once these opportunities are brought on stream, ExxonMobil expects to be participating in gross LNG capacity of approximately 100 million tons per year, with significant volumes being placed in the growing markets of North America, Europe, and Asia Pacific.
ExxonMobil is also participating with Qatar Petroleum and others in LNG regasification terminal projects. In North America we are progressing construction of
the Golden Pass LNG terminal in Texas, which is expected to be operational in 2010. ExxonMobil is also seeking regulatory approvals to build a floating LNG receiving terminal, BlueOcean Energy, 20 miles off the coast of New Jersey. This terminal is expected to start up during the middle of the next decade.
In Europe, the South Hook LNG terminal in the United Kingdom is expected to receive its first cargo in early 2009. Construction of the Adriatic LNG terminal offshore Italy is nearing completion and is expected to receive its first cargo in 2009.
ExxonMobil also participates in the Shimizu terminal in Japan, and together with Qatar Petroleum, holds capacity in the Fluxys terminal in Zeebrugge, Belgium.
Our large portfolio, coupled with our global presence, allows us to capture the highest-value market opportunities while helping to meet the world's growing LNG demand.
 
Table of Contents
National Content
Through the life cycle of all of our projects around the world, we see it as our responsibility to help develop sustainable human, social, and economic capacity in a way that benefits the people, communities, and the economic vitality of the host nations over the long term. In the Upstream, we call this "National Content."
ExxonMobil has been engaged in building National Content for decades by focusing on workforce and supplier development in conjunction with strategic community investments.
Workforce Development
ExxonMobil pursues development of a diverse and highly talented workforce. Our workforce development strategy has two core objectives: recruit and develop nationals to manage and operate the local business; and, develop a talent pool capable of meeting our future global business needs.
Workforce development is based on a set of common principles utilized by ExxonMobil affiliates around the world. We apply global experiences, best practices, operational excellence, and innovative technology to help develop our local workforce. For example, when Malaysian production operations began in 1978, less than 50 percent of the approximately 300 employees were nationals. Thirty years later, nationals comprise 95 percent of the 655 employees. The company also has 110 Malaysians who are strongly contributing to ExxonMobil's Upstream business in other locations worldwide.
Supplier Development
We are also committed to working with host governments to develop local companies to form a competitive industrial base and promote the purchase of local goods and services in our projects.
 
Workforce Development in Malaysia
Supplier development efforts in Angola have resulted in sustained growth in local capacity and expertise.
 
In Angola for instance, local capacity was enhanced through business development and expenditures on local goods and services that increased from $500 million on the Kizomba A project, which started up in 2005, to $1.5 billion for the Kizomba C project, which started up in 2008. In addition ExxonMobil in collaboration with host governments and suppliers achieved the following "firsts":
Strategic Community Investments
ExxonMobil also has a long tradition of economic and social development by working with interested parties to identify and fund initiatives that reduce barriers to development and build capacity such as health, education, and infrastructure programs.
Key investments and initiatives in this area include:
Invested more than $120 million in Sakhalin infrastructure improvements, including health care, transportation, and utilities.
Russia  - 
Working with the Qatar Foundation and others to establish the Qatar Science and Technology Park  a world-class center for educational and scientific development.
Qatar  - 
Developing a National Content plan to grow the capacity and capabilities of communities through specific health, education, infrastructure, and agriculture projects.
Papua New Guinea  - 
Table of Contents
Major Development Projects
ExxonMobil participated in eight major project start-ups in 2008 with nine more anticipated in 2009. Beyond 2009 an additional 44 major projects are in various stages of project planning, design, and execution. The portfolio contains about 120 projects including minor projects.
The Kizomba C development (ExxonMobil interest, 40 percent) in Angola Block 15 includes two projects, Mondo and Saxi/Batuque. With two floating production, storage, and offloading (FPSO) vessels and 36 subsea wells, it is the largest subsea development operated by ExxonMobil worldwide. The projects exemplify ExxonMobil's "design one, build multiple" strategy by constructing and commissioning two similar FPSO vessels. Together these projects are expected to recover approximately 600 million barrels of oil (gross) and produce 200 thousand barrels of oil per day at peak (gross).
Kizomba C
 - 
The Mondo project began production on January 1, 2008, after the FPSO vessel and subsea production facilities were completed and commissioned in record time of 23 months from project approval to first oil.
Mondo
The Saxi/Batuque project began production on July 1, 2008, as scheduled, completing phase two of the staged development for Kizomba C.
Saxi/Batuque
 
The Saxi/Batuque FPSO, one of two similarly designed vessels for the Kizomba C development, exemplifies ExxonMobil's "design one, build multiple" strategy.
Table of Contents
Natural gas production began in April 2008 from the offshore Jerneh B platform (ExxonMobil interest, 100 percent) in Malaysia. The platform was fully designed and constructed in Malaysia. At its peak, this development is expected to produce 150 million cubic feet per day (gross), bringing total production for the Jerneh field to 500 million cubic feet per day (gross).
Jerneh B
 - 
In the North Sea offshore the United Kingdom, production from the Starling gas condensate field (ExxonMobil interest, 72 percent) began in January 2008. The development consists of up to three wells tied back to the Shearwater platform over 20 miles away, and is expected to recover almost 40 million oil-equivalent barrels (gross).
Starling
 - 
The Volve project offshore Norway began production in February 2008 (ExxonMobil interest, 30 percent) as an eight-well development. The project is expected to recover nearly 70 million oil-equivalent barrels with a gross production capacity of 50 thousand barrels per day of liquids and 30 million cubic feet per day of gas.
Volve
 - 
The Azeri-Chirag-Gunashli (ACG) Phase 3 project (ExxonMobil interest, 8 percent), which developed the Deep Water Gunashli field offshore Azerbaijan, started production in April 2008. Production is expected to increase as additional wells are brought online and is projected to ultimately reach approximately 300 thousand barrels of oil per day (gross).
ACG Phase 3
 - 
The Thunder Horse project (ExxonMobil interest, 25 percent) in the central Gulf of Mexico began production in 2008, through a semisubmersible platform, located about 150 miles southeast of New Orleans, Louisiana, in just over 6000 feet of water. The facility is designed for peak production of 250 thousand barrels of oil and 200 million cubic feet of gas per day (gross).
Thunder Horse
 - 
The Jerneh B platform, designed and constructed in Malaysia, began natural gas production in April 2008.
 
The East Area natural gas liquids (NGL) II project (ExxonMobil interest, 51 percent) in Nigeria began production in March 2008. The project is expected to recover about 300 million barrels (gross) of natural gas liquids from associated gas produced from the East Area fields. At its peak, the project is expected to produce about 50 thousand barrels of natural gas liquids per day (gross). The project is part of an integrated plan to significantly reduce flaring and improve oil recovery in conjunction with the existing East Area Additional Oil Recovery project that started up in 2006.
East Area NGL II
 - 
The offshore facilities (left) of the East Area NGL II project extract natural gas liquids for further processing and export from the onshore Bonny River terminal (right).
Table of Contents
  MAJOR PROJECT START-UPS
Major Project Start-Ups
Production by Start-Up Year
Production by Type
Table of Contents
RESOURCES
ExxonMobil's resource base totals 72 billion oil-equivalent barrels, of which 31 percent is proved. The size, diversity, and quality of our resource base is world class, and is a competitive advantage of the Corporation.
In 2008 ExxonMobil added 2.2 billion oil-equivalent barrels to the resource base, with significant additions resulting from drilling programs in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, western Canada, onshore the United States, and West Africa. Overall the resource base increased by 0.3 billion oil-equivalent barrels in 2008 after accounting for revisions to existing fields, production, and asset sales.
ExxonMobil's resource base is the largest among our competitors, and is highly diverse in terms of resource type and geography. The success of ExxonMobil's global opportunity identification strategy is demonstrated by the addition of 3.2 billion oil-equivalent barrels of resource per year over the past five years.
The resource base is updated annually for new discoveries and resource additions, and to reflect changes in the estimates of existing resources. Changes to existing resources may result from new drilling or from revisions to forecast recovery estimates such as from planned use of new technology. Changes may also occur due to fiscal regime changes, changes in equity for existing assets, modifications to depletion plans, and from ongoing geoscience and engineering evaluations. Volumes produced or sold during the year are removed from the resource base at year end.
Effective use of ExxonMobil's proprietary processes and best practices has resulted in continued low finding and resource-acquisition costs. In 2008 finding and resource-acquisition costs were $1.32 per oil-equivalent barrel. The timing of large resource additions varies from year to year and can lead to fluctuations in finding and resource-acquisition costs. The five-year average finding and resource-acquisition cost is $0.66 per oil-equivalent barrel.
See Frequently Used Terms on pages 96 through 99.
 
Resource Base Changes
 
Resource Base
(2)
 
Resource Additions and Acquisitions
(2)
 
Finding and Resources-Acquisition Costs
(2)
 
ExxonMobil's industry-leading resource base of 72 billion oil-equivalent barrels is diverse in terms of resource type and geography.
Resource Base by Type
(percent, oil-equivalent barrels)
Resource Base by Geographic Region
(percent, oil-equivalent barrels)
Table of Contents
PROVED RESERVES
At year-end 2008, the resource base included 22.8 billion oil-equivalent barrels of proved oil and gas reserves, equating to 15 years of reserves life at current production rates. These reserves are evenly distributed between liquids and gas, and represent a diverse, global portfolio.
In 2008 ExxonMobil replaced 103 percent of reserves produced, including asset sales, by adding 1.53 billion oil-equivalent barrels to proved reserves while producing 1.49 billion oil-equivalent barrels. Key additions came from our operations in Canada, West Africa, Australia, Norway, and the United States. Excluding asset sales, ExxonMobil replaced 110 percent of reserves.
ExxonMobil has added 8.6 billion oil-equivalent barrels to proved reserves over the last five years, more than replacing production. In that time frame, the development of new fields and extensions of existing fields have added an average of 1.2 billion oil-equivalent barrels per year to proved reserves. Revisions have averaged about 0.6 billion oil-equivalent barrels per year over the last five years, driven by effective reservoir management and the application of new technology.
The annual reporting of proved reserves is a product of ExxonMobil's rigorous and structured management review process that is stewarded by a team of experienced reserves experts with global responsibilities. ExxonMobil calculates its reserves using the same pricing basis used to make investment decisions, consistent with long-standing practice, rather than single-day, year-end pricing.
Production Volumes
In 2008 oil-equivalent production of 3.9 million barrels per day was down 6 percent compared to 2007. Liquids production was 2.4 million barrels per day. Natural gas production available for sale totaled 9.1 billion cubic feet per day. Excluding entitlement volume effects, the Venezuela expropriation, and divestments, oil-equivalent production was down about 3 percent, primarily due to maintenance activities, hurricanes, and natural field decline, partially offset by new project volumes.
Proved Reserves
(1)
(billions of oil-equivalent barrels, year-end 2008)
Proved Reserves Replacement
(1)(2)
(percent of annual production replaced with proved reserves additions)
 
Looking ahead new projects and work programs are expected to more than offset production declines in existing mature fields. Near-term production growth will be driven by large gas projects in Qatar. Longer-term growth will be enhanced by a diverse portfolio of projects in Africa, Asia Pacific/Middle East, Europe, North America, and the Russia/Caspian regions.
The forward-looking projections of production volumes in this document are reflective of our best assumptions regarding technical, commercial, and regulatory aspects of existing operations and new projects. Factors that could have an impact on actual volumes include project start-up timing, regulatory changes, quotas, asset sales, operational outages, severe weather, and entitlement volume effects under certain production sharing contracts and royalty agreements.
See Frequently Used Terms on pages 96 through 99.
Production Outlook
By Type
By Geographic Region
Table of Contents
Worldwide Upstream Operations
ExxonMobil has interests in exploration and production acreage in 38 countries and production operations in 23 countries.
The Americas
ExxonMobil's operations in the Americas accounted for approximately 25 percent of ExxonMobil's 2008 net oil and gas production and about 28 percent of Upstream earnings. Base production continues to yield strong returns. We expect future production to include contributions from unconventional gas, heavy oil, deepwater, and arctic developments.
United States
ExxonMobil is one of the largest oil and gas producers and reserves holders in the United States, with a diverse resource and asset portfolio. ExxonMobil maintains a significant position in all major producing regions, including the Gulf of Mexico/Gulf Coast, the mid-continent, onshore and offshore California, and Alaska. The portfolio contains a diverse range of assets from mature fields to new, world-scale projects.
The United States continues to provide a significant contribution to ExxonMobil's profitability through high-quality drilling programs, selective investments in existing fields and new projects, continued operational efficiency, and technological improvements.
Americas Highlights
 
Americas Production
(millions of oil-equivalent barrels per day)
Table of Contents
ExxonMobil continues to be a leading oil and gas producer in the offshore Gulf of Mexico with average net production of 48 thousand barrels of liquids per day and 429 million cubic feet of gas per day in 2008. Onshore production in Texas and Louisiana added 63 thousand barrels of liquids per day and 483 million cubic feet of gas per day (net).
Gulf of Mexico/Gulf Coast  - 
In the Gulf of Mexico, ExxonMobil has about 2.7 million acres (gross) under lease and operates about 70 structures. We continue to actively evaluate our large acreage position, including the deepwater Lower Tertiary play, and were awarded 142 blocks during 2008.
ExxonMobil also produces natural gas in Alabama's Mobile Bay through onshore and offshore production facilities. Natural gas is transported by pipeline to two onshore processing complexes  the Onshore Treating Facility and the Mary Ann/823 Complex. In 2008 the Mobile Bay facilities contributed average net production of 186 million cubic feet of gas per day.
The Thunder Horse project (ExxonMobil interest, 25 percent), a deepwater semisubmersible development in the central Gulf of Mexico, began production in 2008. The facility is designed for peak capacity of 250 thousand barrels of oil per day and 200 million cubic feet of gas per day (gross).
Construction of the Golden Pass LNG regasification terminal in Sabine Pass, Texas, continues to progress and is scheduled for start up in 2010. The terminal will have the capacity to deliver up to 2 billion cubic feet of gas per day to the U.S. market.
ExxonMobil produces natural gas in Mobile Bay, Alabama, through 29 offshore platforms and two onshore gas processing complexes.
ExxonMobil has extended the production life of the Hawkins field, discovered in East Texas in 1940, through the application of enhanced oil recovery techniques.
ExxonMobil has oil and gas production operations throughout the mid-continent states, including Wyoming, Kansas, Colorado, Oklahoma, and New Mexico. Average net production from these areas was 12 thousand barrels of liquids per day and 371 million cubic feet of gas per day in 2008.
Mid-Continent  - 
The mid-continent contains some of the most mature assets in ExxonMobil's portfolio. The application of proprietary technology, including enhanced oil recovery and refracturing techniques, continues to significantly extend production life.
ExxonMobil added to its exploration portfolio by acquiring six leases covering 19,400 acres in the Marcellus shale gas play in Pennsylvania. In 2008 ExxonMobil also participated in exploration drilling in the Woodford shale gas play in the Arkoma Basin in Oklahoma.
Table of Contents
In the Piceance Basin in Colorado, ExxonMobil has approximately 300,000 acres under lease with a potential recoverable resource of over 45 trillion cubic feet of gas (gross). In 2008 significant drilling and construction activities were undertaken to expand the gas gathering and processing system as part of the Piceance Phase 1 project, with start-up expected in early 2009. Opportunities for future expansion to fully develop the resource are being evaluated. Average net production from this area was 65 million cubic feet of gas per day in 2008.
The LaBarge development (ExxonMobil interest, 100 percent) in Wyoming consists of the Tip Top and Hogsback fields and the Shute Creek gas processing plant. The operation includes the longest sour gas pipeline in the United States and the world's largest helium recovery and Selexol (gas sweetening) plants. Construction of additional compression systems will commence in 2009 to increase sales of carbon dioxide for enhanced oil recovery. In 2008 the LaBarge facilities processed an average of 660 million cubic feet of gross inlet gas per day.
ExxonMobil is also building a commercial demonstration plant adjacent to the Shute Creek plant, where it will use proprietary technology. This technology could assist in the development of additional gas resources and facilitates the application of carbon capture and storage to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. The new demonstration plant is scheduled for operational start-up in late 2009.
Controlled Freeze Zone
The Harmony platform, located 20 miles offshore Santa Barbara, California, in the Santa Ynez Unit, utilizes extended-reach drilling to increase resource recovery.
Controlled Freeze Zone
ExxonMobil is installing additional compression systems to increase sales of carbon dioxide and constructing a demonstration plant using the proprietary
technology at the Shute Creek plant in Wyoming.
Average net production from ExxonMobil's offshore and onshore California assets averaged 115 thousand barrels of liquids per day and 68 million cubic feet of gas per day in 2008.
California
 - 
The Santa Ynez Unit, located 20 miles offshore Santa Barbara, consists of three platforms in the Pacific Ocean's Outer Continental Shelf and a processing plant in Las Flores Canyon. ExxonMobil also has a 48-percent equity share in the Aera onshore operations, comprising 15 fields and about 12,000 wells producing a mixture of heavy and conventional oil with associated gas.
ExxonMobil is among the largest producers in Alaska with average net production of 130 thousand barrels per day of liquids. Key assets include a 36-percent interest in Prudhoe Bay and a 37-percent interest in Point Thomson.
Alaska
 - 
ExxonMobil is actively involved in the co-venturer- operated Prudhoe Bay Western Region development, which will allow new satellite fields to produce into existing infrastructure.
ExxonMobil is the largest holder of discovered gas resources on the North Slope of Alaska. The Alaska Gas project would enable treatment and transportation of natural gas from the Prudhoe Bay and Point Thomson fields to North American gas markets. Securing predictable and durable fiscal terms with the State of Alaska is necessary to establish a commercially viable project.
At Point Thomson, ExxonMobil and other unit interest-holders are progressing activities for a multi-well drilling program.
In early 2009 ExxonMobil sold its interest in the Monterey coal mine and associated assets in Illinois following shutdown of mining operations in December 2007.
Coal
 - 
Table of Contents
Canada
ExxonMobil has a leading position in Canada through its wholly owned affiliate ExxonMobil Canada and majority-owned affiliate Imperial Oil (ExxonMobil interest, 69.6 percent). Through these entities, ExxonMobil is a leading crude oil and natural gas producer in Canada and holds one of the country's largest resource positions. We also have a significant presence in major projects offshore eastern Canada and a well-established production base with expansion opportunities in western Canada.
The ExxonMobil-operated Sable Offshore Energy Project (ExxonMobil interest, 51 percent; Imperial Oil interest, 9 percent) in Nova Scotia consists of five producing fields. Production in 2008 averaged 412 million cubic feet of gas per day (gross) and 18 thousand barrels per day (gross) of associated natural gas liquids.
Offshore Canada Operations
 - 
The Hibernia field (ExxonMobil interest, 33 percent) offshore Newfoundland is operated by Hibernia Management and Development Company Ltd., using ExxonMobil personnel and processes. In 2008 Hibernia's production averaged 139 thousand barrels of oil per day (gross).
The co-venturers of the Hibernia Southern Extension project (ExxonMobil interest, 28 percent) are currently in negotiations with the Newfoundland and Labrador provincial government on the development of additional blocks in the southern part of the Hibernia field.
In 2008 the co-venturer-operated Terra Nova development (ExxonMobil interest, 22 percent) produced about 103 thousand barrels of oil per day (gross). Located in 265 feet of water, Terra Nova consists of a unique, harsh-environment-equipped floating production, storage, and offloading vessel and 27 subsea wells that are expected to recover about 400 million oil-equivalent barrels (gross).
The Western Patriot seismic vessel conducted a 3D seismic survey in the arctic environment of the Beaufort Sea, Canada.
The Hibernia platform offshore Newfoundland, Canada, can store 1.3 million barrels of oil in its gravity-based structure.
The Hebron project (ExxonMobil interest, 36 percent) is a heavy oil development located in 300 feet of water offshore Newfoundland. Hebron will be designed for harsh arctic conditions using a gravity-based structure. In 2008 the co-venturers executed facilitating agreements with the Newfoundland and Labrador provincial government and approved ExxonMobil as operator. ExxonMobil is leveraging its extensive global experience with gravity-based structures and arctic project execution to advance the project into front-end engineering and design.
The Orphan Basin is a high-potential exploration area with arctic conditions offshore eastern Canada. ExxonMobil has consolidated its interests into two deepwater exploration blocks totaling 4 million gross acres (ExxonMobil interest, 15 percent; Imperial Oil interest, 15 percent). ExxonMobil operates one of the blocks and the other is co-venturer operated. A second wildcat well is being planned following the first wildcat in 2007.
In 2007 ExxonMobil acquired 100 percent interest in the EL446 Block in the Beaufort Sea (ExxonMobil Canada interest, 50 percent; Imperial Oil interest, 50 percent). The block covers 500,000 acres and is located 75 miles from shore in water depths ranging from 200 to 4000 feet. A 3D seismic survey over part of the area was collected in 2008, and processing is under way. Plans for the first exploration well are progressing in this operationally challenging arctic environment.
Table of Contents
The Cold Lake field (Imperial Oil interest, 100 percent) and the Syncrude oil sands mining operation (Imperial Oil interest, 25 percent) in Alberta account for the majority of Imperial Oil's liquids production in western Canada.
Onshore Canada Operations  - 
In 2008 Cold Lake averaged 147 thousand barrels of oil per day (gross) and Syncrude's production of synthetic crude averaged 289 thousand barrels per day (gross).
The Cold Lake field in Alberta is the largest thermal in situ heavy oil project in the world. It has over 4000 wells directionally drilled from satellite pads. Cyclic Steam Stimulation is used to recover bitumen as it is too heavy and viscous for conventional production. Plans are in place to examine expansion opportunities at Cold Lake and further enhance recovery by using leading-edge thermal recovery technologies. A commercial application of the proprietary LASER (Liquids Addition to Steam for Enhanced Recovery) technology was implemented in 2007 and preliminary results are encouraging.
The Kearl Oil Sands project (combined ExxonMobil and Imperial Oil interest, 100 percent) is expected to develop a world-class resource in northern Alberta exceeding 4 billion barrels. The planned three-phase development will be an open-pit mining operation with the first phase producing approximately 110 thousand barrels of bitumen per day (gross). Front-end engineering was completed in 2008. Detailed design, equipment procurement, and initial site preparation activities have commenced for the first phase.
The Aurora South project at Syncrude is being planned to further develop the resource base in northern Alberta. Two phases of an open-pit mining operation are planned, which combined would produce about 180 thousand barrels of bitumen per day (gross).
Syncrude, located in Alberta, Canada, averaged gross production of 289 thousand barrels per day in 2008, and is the largest oil sands mining and upgrading facility in the world.
The commercialization and regulatory process continues for the Mackenzie Gas Project in the Mackenzie Delta of Canada's Northwest Territories. The project includes the development of three onshore fields (ExxonMobil and Imperial Oil hold interests in two of the three fields) containing approximately 6 trillion cubic feet of natural gas (gross). The project will deliver natural gas to North American markets through a 740-mile pipeline system to be built along the Mackenzie Valley.
ExxonMobil has acquired 152,000 net acres since 2007 in the Horn River Basin in northeast British Columbia. Exploration drilling activity to evaluate the Horn River shale gas play began in late 2008.
In 2008, oil sands exploration activities including 2D seismic surveys and core hole drilling operations, were conducted on mining leases previously acquired by ExxonMobil and Imperial Oil in the Athabasca area of Alberta, Canada. Further oil sands exploration activity is planned.
Table of Contents
South America
ExxonMobil holds a 40-percent interest and operatorship of Block BM-S-22, located in the high-potential subsalt play of the Santos Basin offshore Brazil. BM-S-22 is a 342,000-acre block in water depths over 7400 feet and is located approximately 220 miles south of Rio de Janeiro. A 3D seismic survey was acquired in 2005 and processed in 2006.
Brazil
 - 
The first wildcat well on the block commenced drilling in October 2008 utilizing the West Polaris drillship. Plans are ongoing for follow-up wells.
The West Polaris drillship spud the first exploration well on the ExxonMobil-operated BM-S-22 Block, offshore Brazil in October 2008.
ExxonMobil holds a 40-percent interest in the Tayrona block. This is a 5.5-million-acre block with water depths up to 10,500 feet in the Caribbean Sea, off the northern coast of Colombia. Further drilling plans are being assessed to ensure thorough exploration of this large block. In 2008 ExxonMobil was awarded a Technical Evaluation Agreement for Block CPE-3 covering 6.4 million acres onshore Colombia. The block is located in a remote and unexplored area of the eastern Llanos Basin on trend with the Orinoco heavy oil belt in Venezuela to the north. ExxonMobil is currently planning an exploration program that is expected to begin in 2009 with the acquisition of 2D seismic data. ExxonMobil will leverage its vast experience in heavy oil to evaluate and develop this potential resource.
Colombia
 - 
The Cerro Negro and La Ceiba assets of ExxonMobil affiliates were expropriated without compensation by Venezuela on June 27, 2007. Prior to expropriation, ExxonMobil affiliates owned 41/-percent interest in Cerro Negro and 50-percent interest in La Ceiba. ExxonMobil affiliates filed an arbitration against Venezuela with the International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes (ICSID) in September 2007. An affiliate filed a related arbitration against Venezuela's national oil company (PdVSA) and a PdVSA affiliate with the International Chamber of Commerce (ICC) in January 2008.
Venezuela
 - 
2
3
In Argentina, ExxonMobil holds a 51-percent interest in the Chihuidos field and a 23-percent interest in the Aguarague concession. In 2008 net daily gas production of 64 million cubic feet was sold into markets in Argentina and Chile. In addition the company holds exploration rights in the Stabroek block offshore Guyana. A new 2D seismic survey on the block is currently being processed.
Other South America
 - 
Table of Contents
Europe
ExxonMobil is one of the largest producers of oil and natural gas in Europe. The company has upstream interests in Norway, the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, Germany, Italy, Hungary, Romania, Greenland, and Ireland. Extensive North Sea oil and natural gas production operations and significant onshore natural gas production are among the company's key assets. ExxonMobil's operations in Europe accounted for about 28 percent of the company's 2008 net oil and gas production and about 28 percent of Upstream earnings.
The North Sea continues to make a significant contribution to ExxonMobil's overall production. On the continent ExxonMobil has significant gas holdings in the Netherlands and is the largest gas producer in Germany. Activities continue in all sectors, from exploration to execution of new projects and implementation of work programs that maximize recovery in mature assets.
Exploration activities continue offshore Ireland, Greenland, and the North Sea, and onshore Germany. In 2008 exploration activity was initiated in Hungary and Romania. Major projects under way include new regasification terminals in the United Kingdom and Italy to deliver liquefied natural gas (LNG) to meet growing demand.
Europe Highlights
 
Europe Production
(millions of oil-equivalent barrels per day)
Table of Contents
Norway
ExxonMobil is among the largest oil and gas producers in Norway, with average net production of 295 thousand barrels per day of liquids and 764 million cubic feet per day of gas in 2008.
ExxonMobil operates four major producing fields in Norway including Ringhorne (ExxonMobil interest, 100 percent) and Ringhorne East (ExxonMobil interest, 77 percent), which are located 110 miles west of Stavanger. Since coming onstream in 2003, Ringhorne has produced 167 million barrels of oil and production averaged 92 thousand oil-equivalent barrels per day (gross) in 2008.
Development drilling at the Ormen Lange field (ExxonMobil interest, 7 percent) continued to progress in 2008. Gas from the Ormen Lange field has been flowing since September 2007, and six wells are currently producing at a gross rate of 1.8 billion cubic feet per day of gas.
The Volve field offshore Norway began production in February 2008 (ExxonMobil interest, 30 percent) as an eight-well development. The project is expected to recover nearly 70 million oil-equivalent barrels with a gross production capacity of 50 thousand barrels per day of liquids and 30 million cubic feet per day of gas.
Commissioning activities are nearing completion at the South Hook LNG regasification terminal in Milford Haven, Wales, with the first liquefied natural gas (LNG) cargo expected in early 2009.
The Scottish Area Gas Evacuation (SAGE) plant processes gas from the Beryl Area fields for supply to the U.K. market.
The Tyrihans field (ExxonMobil interest, 12 percent) is located in the Norwegian Sea. The field is currently being developed with subsea wells tied back to the Kristin platform for offshore processing and export. First production is expected in 2009.
In 2008 ExxonMobil participated in a successful appraisal of the Nyk High area, adjacent to the 1997 Luva discovery (ExxonMobil interest, 15 percent).
United Kingdom
ExxonMobil is one of the largest oil and gas producers in the United Kingdom, with average net production of 123 thousand barrels per day of liquids and 750 million cubic feet per day of gas in 2008.
ExxonMobil operates eight fields in the northern North Sea and has interests in over 40 producing fields that are co-venturer operated.
ExxonMobil is the operator of the Scottish Area Gas Evacuation (SAGE) gas plant at St. Fergus and the SAGE pipeline that transports gas from the Beryl Area fields to the gas plant. The company's operations at Beryl and the SAGE gas plant are key contributors to U.K. energy supply.
In the central North Sea, production from the Starling gas condensate field (ExxonMobil interest, 72 percent) began in January 2008. The development consists of up to three wells tied back to the Shearwater platform over 20 miles away and is expected to recover almost 40 million oil-equivalent barrels (gross).
The South Hook LNG regasification terminal in Milford Haven, Wales, is expected to receive its first cargo in early 2009. This terminal will have the capacity to deliver up to 2 billion cubic feet of gas per day into the U.K. natural gas grid.
Preparations are under way to drill a wildcat well on ExxonMobil's Mid North Sea High license in 2009.
Table of Contents
The Netherlands
ExxonMobil is among the largest gas producers in the Netherlands, primarily through its shareholding in NAM (Nederlandse Aardolie Maatschappij), a 50-percent ExxonMobil equity company that produces gas from more than 100 fields located both onshore and offshore. In 2008 ExxonMobil's net production averaged 1.7 billion cubic feet of gas per day.
NAM is the largest gas producer in the Netherlands. Seventy percent of its production comes from the Groningen field, which is the largest gas field in Western Europe. Discovered in 1959, Groningen is expected to recover over 100 trillion cubic feet of gas. A major renovation project has been progressing in phases since 1997 to ensure natural gas supply from the field continues well into the future. The project is expected to be completed in 2009.
NAM's Schoonebeek Redevelopment project continued to progress in 2008. This enhanced oil recovery steamflood project is expected to recover 120 million barrels of oil (gross). The project start-up is planned for 2010.
Germany
ExxonMobil is Germany's largest gas producer with average net production of 687 million cubic feet per day of gas in 2008. A total of 55 ExxonMobil-operated gas fields account for about three-quarters of all natural gas produced in the country.
Approximately half of the gas production is sour, containing up to 36 percent hydrogen sulfide. The sour gas is processed at the Grossenkneten or NEAG sulfur-recovery plants. ExxonMobil also operates a number of large compressor stations to maximize field production and resource recovery.
ExxonMobil's portfolio in Germany also includes new unconventional gas exploration opportunities. ExxonMobil
The Groningen natural gas field is the largest in Western Europe and has been producing since 1963.
subsidiaries were awarded four large exploration licenses in 2007 by the Lower Saxony and North Rhine-Westphalia states. The licenses cover 1.3 million acres of the Lower Saxony Basin, and ExxonMobil operates these licenses with a 67-percent interest. Drilling and testing activities commenced in 2008.
In 2008 ExxonMobil sold its interest in approximately 2300 miles of regional gas pipeline networks in northern Germany held through BEB Transport GmbH (ExxonMobil interest, 50 percent) and ExxonMobil Gastransport Deutschland GmbH (ExxonMobil interest, 100 percent) to N.V. Nederlandse Gasunie.
Drilling activities are under way in the Lower Saxony Basin, Germany, to explore for unconventional gas resources to help increase natural gas supplies in Europe.
Table of Contents
Italy
The Adriatic LNG terminal, installed at its final destination in September 2008, is the world's first fixed offshore liquefied natural gas (LNG) storage and regasification terminal. The concrete, gravity-based structure, containing two large cryogenic tanks and supporting topside regasification equipment, was towed 1700 nautical miles from Algeciras, Spain, to offshore Porto Levante, Italy, in the northern Adriatic Sea. LNG ships, primarily from Qatar, will discharge cargo at the terminal where the LNG will be converted back into gas for delivery to shore via an export pipeline. The terminal will supply up to 775 million cubic feet of gas per day (gross) to the Italian market. Commissioning activities are progressing with start-up scheduled in 2009.
Adriatic LNG Terminal
 - 
The Adriatic LNG terminal was towed from its construction site in Algeciras, Spain, to its final destination offshore Porto Levante, Italy. Commissioning activities are under way for start-up in 2009.
 
The Tempa Rossa project (ExxonMobil interest, 25 percent) includes a centralized oil and gas processing facility and a separate liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) terminal with new storage and offloading facilities at a refinery in southern Italy. Site civil work was initiated in 2008 and construction of the oil facilities and export system is expected to begin in 2009. Upon completion these facilities will produce at a peak rate of 50 thousand barrels of oil per day (gross) along with associated natural gas and LPG. The project is expected to develop over 200 million oil-equivalent barrels (gross).
Tempa Rossa
 - 
Ireland
In the Porcupine Basin, a frontier area approximately 125 miles off the southwest coast of Ireland, ExxonMobil has interest in four licenses. Evaluation of a 2D seismic survey is progressing on the 320,000-acre Dunquin license in support of potential future drilling (ExxonMobil interest, 80 percent). Two new exploration licenses were awarded to ExxonMobil in 2008, totaling 778,700 acres (ExxonMobil interest, 80 percent). A 2D seismic survey was acquired in 2008 and evaluation of this data is ongoing.
Hungary
ExxonMobil signed two agreements in Hungary to begin exploration in the Mako Trough. The agreements cover adjacent license areas of 184,300 acres (ExxonMobil interest, 33.5 percent) and 386,800 acres in which ExxonMobil will acquire a 50-percent interest upon completion of a work program. ExxonMobil is the operator of both licenses and is conducting an initial work program involving drilling and testing exploratory wells. The initial phase began in 2008.
Romania
ExxonMobil signed an agreement to farm-in to the 1.8-million-acre, deepwater Neptun Block in the Romanian Black Sea (ExxonMobil interest, 50 percent) in 2008. A 3D seismic program is planned in 2009. Following the evaluation of the 3D seismic data, ExxonMobil will have the option to participate in an exploration drilling program.
Exploration activities in the Mako Trough, Hungary, commenced in 2008.
Greenland
In the Disko area of western Greenland, ExxonMobil has interests in Block 6 (ExxonMobil interest, 44 percent) and Block 4 (ExxonMobil interest, 29 percent) totaling nearly 6.7 million acres. In 2008, 2000 miles of 2D data were acquired in each of the two blocks using solid seismic streamers to reduce the potential for fluid spills. ExxonMobil is a leader in the application of this recently developed seismic-streamer technology. The data are currently being processed to identify potential drilling opportunities.
Table of Contents
Africa
ExxonMobil is one of the largest oil and gas producers in Africa. ExxonMobil's operations in Africa accounted for about 17 percent of the company's 2008 net oil and gas production and 18 percent of Upstream earnings, with those percentages expected to increase as new projects begin production.
ExxonMobil has exploration operations in Angola, Nigeria, Libya, Madagascar, and the Republic of Congo. In deepwater areas offshore Africa, ExxonMobil holds interests in 31 blocks, totaling more than 25 million gross acres, and participated in 16 West Africa deepwater exploration wells that were completed in 2008. ExxonMobil is also progressing liquefied natural gas (LNG) opportunities in the region.
Angola
ExxonMobil has interests in four deepwater blocks that cover more than 3 million gross acres. The company and its co-venturers have announced a total of 60 discoveries in Angola, representing world-class development opportunities with a recoverable resource potential of about 14 billion oil-equivalent barrels (gross).
In 2008 the Kizomba C development, utilizing twin floating production, storage, and offloading vessels for the Mondo and Saxi/Batuque projects, started up on ExxonMobil-operated Block 15. Including production from the co-venturer-operated Block 17, ExxonMobil's net production in Angola averaged 181 thousand barrels of oil per day in 2008. Development planning for new discoveries in Block 31 and Block 32 is progressing.
ExxonMobil was awarded Block 15 in 1994 (ExxonMobil interest, 40 percent), and the first discovery was made in 1998. To date a total resource of nearly 5 billion oil-equivalent barrels (gross) has been discovered on the block. First oil was produced in November 2003 from the Xikomba field, followed by Kizomba A in 2004, Kizomba B in 2005, and Marimba North in 2007.
Angola Block 15
 - 
Africa Highlights
 
Africa Production
(millions of oil-equivalent barrels per day)
Table of Contents
The Kizomba C Mondo project is a subsea tieback of three drill centers to a floating production, storage, and offloading (FPSO) vessel with a capacity of 100 thousand barrels of oil per day.
The Kizomba C Mondo project started up in January 2008 followed by the Kizomba C Saxi/Batuque project in July. Together these projects are expected to recover approximately 600 million barrels of oil (gross). Total combined daily production on the block peaked at over 700 thousand barrels per day (gross) in 2008.
Additional Block 15 developments are progressing including the Gas Gathering project to collect and transport block-wide associated gas to the Angola liquefied natural gas (LNG) facility under construction at Soyo. Activities are also progressing for the Kizomba Satellites project that will include subsea tiebacks to the Kizomba A and B floating production, storage, and offloading (FPSO) vessels. Planning for development continues for the remaining discovered resources on Block 15.
ExxonMobil owns a 20-percent interest in Block 17, where the first discovery was made in 1996. Through year-end 2008, 15 discoveries have been announced on the block with a total resource estimate of about 6 billion oil-equivalent barrels. A number of projects have started up, including Girassol in 2001, Dalia in 2006, and Rosa in 2007. During 2008, production was 500 thousand barrels per day (gross). Project execution began in 2008 for the Pazflor project, located 100 miles offshore in 2600 feet of water. An FPSO vessel will be used to produce 200 thousand barrels per day (gross). The next
Angola Block 17
 - 
planned development will be Cravo-Lirio-Orquidea-Violeta (CLOV), another FPSO vessel project that is expected to produce 160 thousand barrels per day (gross).
ExxonMobil was awarded a 25-percent interest in Block 31 in 1999, and the first discovery was made in 2002. Through year-end 2008, 16 discoveries have been announced with a total resource of approximately 2 billion oil-equivalent barrels on the block. The first development is the Plutao-Saturno-Venus-Marte (PSVM) hub located in the northern part of the block. A single, 150-thousand-barrel-per-day FPSO vessel is planned for the four fields to produce an estimated 490 million barrels of oil (gross). The water depth ranges from 5900 to 6700 feet, the deepest yet for a West African development project. Planning for development of additional hubs in the southeast and central part of the block is under way.
Angola Block 31
 - 
ExxonMobil was awarded a 15-percent interest in Block 32 in 1999 and the first discovery was made in 2003. Through year-end 2008, 12 discoveries have been announced with a total resource of approximately 1.4 billion oil-equivalent barrels on the block. The first development being planned is the AB32 Southeast Hub in the east-central part of the block. A single FPSO vessel is planned to develop a combined resource of up to 650 million barrels of oil (gross). The water depth ranges from 4700 to 5600 feet. Planning for additional exploration wells is ongoing.
Angola Block 32
 - 
Table of Contents
Nigeria
ExxonMobil is active on both shallow and deepwater acreage in Nigeria. In shallow water, ExxonMobil operates a joint venture with the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (ExxonMobil interest, 40 percent for crude and condensate; 51 percent for natural gas liquids) that covers approximately 800,000 acres in four leases offshore southeastern Nigeria. In deep water, ExxonMobil acquired equity in OPL 223 (ExxonMobil interest, 27 percent) in 2008 and has interests in six other blocks that include the Bonga, Bosi, Erha, Uge, and Usan discoveries. In 2008 ExxonMobil produced an average of 364 thousand barrels of liquids per day (net) offshore Nigeria.
Nigeria Deepwater Development
ExxonMobil continues to progress Nigeria deepwater projects in various stages of development. The ExxonMobil-operated Erha North Phase 2, Bosi, and OPL 214 Uge projects are in the development planning stage. The co-venturer-operated Usan project began execution in early 2008, while development planning continues for the co-venturer-operated Bonga North, Northwest, and Southwest projects.
The world-class Erha development (ExxonMobil interest, 56 percent) is located 60 miles offshore in 3900 feet of water. Erha and Erha North started up in 2006 as ExxonMobil's first operated deepwater production in Nigeria. The combined development consists of over 30 subsea wells tied back to a floating production, storage, and offloading (FPSO) vessel, with a capacity of over 200 thousand barrels per day. Planning continues for the Erha North Phase 2 project that will further develop the Erha North field with additional production wells tied back to the existing Erha FPSO. Exploration efforts continued in 2008 with the 14th exploration well discovering additional hydrocarbons near the Erha/Erha North development.
Erha/Erha North
 - 
The Erha FPSO has tiebacks to over 30 subsea wells with a capacity of over 200 thousand barrels per day.
The Bosi development (ExxonMobil interest, 56 percent) in over 5500 feet of water will be ExxonMobil's deepest operated development to date. The Bosi resource will be developed in phases with subsea tiebacks to a spread-moored FPSO vessel. The combined phases of the Bosi project are expected to develop approximately 500 million barrels of oil (gross). Development planning work continues on gas disposition.
Bosi
 - 
The Bonga North and Bonga Northwest (ExxonMobil interest, 20 percent) subsea development opportunities are progressing and are planned as tiebacks to the existing Bonga Main FPSO that began operation in 2005. These two projects combined would develop about 570 million barrels of oil (gross). Exploration activity included an additional exploratory well in 2008. The results of this well will be used to update the resource potential and development strategy.
Bonga North and Northwest
 - 
The Bonga Southwest project (ExxonMobil interest, 16 percent) is planned as an FPSO vessel development with a dedicated gas export pipeline. This development is planned to produce 140 thousand barrels per day at peak production. Design and contracting activities are advancing.
Bonga Southwest
 - 
The Uge field (ExxonMobil interest, 20 percent) was discovered in 2005 after ExxonMobil was awarded operatorship of OPL 214 in 2001. The block continues to be evaluated with an appraisal well drilled in 2008. Planning for development continues on Uge, as well as additional exploration drilling on the block.
OPL 214
 - 
The Usan project (ExxonMobil interest, 30 percent) is a co-venturer-operated development located 60 miles offshore Nigeria in 2500 feet of water. The development is designed to recover over 500 million barrels of oil (gross) with 42 subsea wells connected to a 180-thousand-barrel-per-day capacity FPSO vessel. Project execution began in 2008.
Usan
 - 
Table of Contents
Nigeria Joint Venture  Shelf Development
In the joint venture area, activities are progressing to increase production capacity as well as develop additional resources. Production growth will result from development drilling, enhanced oil recovery including the Etim/Asasa and Usari Pressure Maintenance projects, and a series of platform upgrades that will expand capacity while also extending the life of the existing assets.
The East Area natural gas liquids (NGL) II project (ExxonMobil interest, 51 percent) began production in 2008. The project includes an offshore natural gas liquids extraction complex, more than 125 miles of new natural gas and natural gas liquids pipelines, and expansion of the existing onshore Bonny River terminal for fractionation of the liquids into commercial products and offloading. The development will recover about 300 million barrels of natural gas liquids (gross) and is part of an integrated approach to reduce flaring and emissions.
East Area NGL II
 - 
The Satellite Field Development project (ExxonMobil interest, 40 percent) targets 20 undeveloped oil fields and 15 infill platform opportunities with total recoverable resources exceeding 1 billion barrels of oil (gross).
Satellite Field Development
 - 
Equatorial Guinea
ExxonMobil is the largest producer in Equatorial Guinea operating the Zafiro field (ExxonMobil interest, 71 percent) in water depths between 400 and 2800 feet. In 2008 Zafiro production averaged 184 thousand barrels of oil per day (gross) through the Serpentina FPSO, the Jade Platform, and the Zafiro Producer, a floating production unit.
Chad
ExxonMobil is the primary producer in Chad with gross average production in 2008 of 127 thousand barrels of oil per day (ExxonMobil interest, 40 percent). Development drilling is focused in the Three Fields area (Kome, Miandoum, and Bolobo). The Maikeri field began production in 2007, and the Timbre field is expected to begin production in 2009. Waterflood projects and production optimization are continuing to maximize recovery of reserves.
Madagascar
In 2004 and 2005, ExxonMobil captured a large acreage position and currently holds over 17 million acres (gross) in four frontier exploration blocks offshore northwestern Madagascar. ExxonMobil has implemented a phased approach to its exploration program. Through year-end 2008, activity has included acquisition of new 2D and 3D seismic data.
Congo
ExxonMobil was awarded a 30-percent interest in the Mer Tres Profonde Sud block in 1997. The first discovery was made in 2000. Through year-end 2008, five discoveries have been announced with a total gross resource of approximately 500 million oil-equivalent barrels on the block. Planning for development is under way. The water depth ranges from 6200 to 6900 feet. The exploration program continues with a new 3D seismic survey acquired in 2007.
ExxonMobil was awarded a 40-percent interest in the Mer Tres Profonde Nord block in 1997. Exploration activities continue with the 3D seismic survey acquired in 2007.
Libya
Additional 2D seismic data and an survey were completed over Contract Area 44 offshore northeastern Libya in 2008. Evaluation of these data is in progress.
RM
3
Acquisition of a 2D seismic survey, a 3D seismic survey, and an survey were completed over Contract Area 20 offshore northern Libya in 2008. Evaluation of these data is in progress.
RM
3
Contract Area 21 was awarded to ExxonMobil in June 2008. The contract area comprises 2.5 million acres and is 110 miles offshore in water depths ranging from approximately 5400 to 8700 feet. A 2D seismic survey was completed in 2008 and a 3D seismic survey is planned for 2009. Evaluation of the 2D seismic data is in progress.
Additional drilling activity is planned during 2009 from the Jade Platform, offshore Equatorial Guinea, to maximize resource recovery from the Zafiro field.
Table of Contents
Asia Pacific/Middle East
ExxonMobil's operations in the Asia Pacific/Middle East region accounted for about 26 percent of the company's 2008 net oil and gas production and about 17 percent of Upstream earnings. Those percentages are expected to grow in the future, primarily driven by new developments in Qatar.
Australia
ExxonMobil continues to be a leading oil and gas producer in Australia. In 2008 net production averaged 59 thousand barrels of liquids and 358 million cubic feet of gas per day.
The Kipper/Tuna (ExxonMobil interest, Kipper 32.5 percent, Tuna 50 percent) and Turrum (ExxonMobil interest, 50 percent) projects in the Bass Strait are in the execution stage.
The Gorgon Jansz project (ExxonMobil interest, 25 percent) is in the final stages of obtaining government approvals to develop this world-class gas resource offshore Western Australia. The development consists of subsea infrastructure for the production and transport of gas and a 15-million-tons-per-year liquefied natural gas (LNG) facility located on Barrow Island. The development concept for the ExxonMobil-operated Jansz field includes one of the world's longest subsea tiebacks, located in over 4200 feet of water.
Appraisal drilling in 2009 and beyond will enhance opportunities to further develop the existing discovered resources of 40 trillion cubic feet of gas (gross).
Development and execution planning continues to progress for the Scarborough LNG project (ExxonMobil interest, 50 percent). The field is located offshore Western Australia and has a resource of approximately 10 trillion cubic feet of gas (gross).
Exploration evaluation activities continue in the WA-392-P, WA-374-P, and WA-268-P blocks (ExxonMobil interest, 25 percent). In 2008 a 3D seismic survey was acquired in the WA-268-P block and ExxonMobil completed acquisition of a new 2D seismic survey in the WA-318-P block (ExxonMobil interest, 75 percent) in the Bonaparte Basin offshore northern Australia.
Asia Pacific/Middle East Highlights
 
Asia Pacific/Middle East Production
(millions of oil-equivalent barrels per day)
The Gorgon Jansz project includes parallel subsea development of the Gorgon and Jansz fields along with installation of a 15-million-tons-per-year LNG facility on Barrow Island.
Table of Contents
Indonesia
ExxonMobil operates Indonesia's Arun gas field (ExxonMobil interest, 100 percent), which supplies gas to the PT Arun LNG plant. In 2008 net production from the Arun field, Arun satellite fields, and the North Sumatra Offshore field averaged 239 million cubic feet of gas per day.
The Banyu Urip development in the Cepu Contract Area, onshore Java, (ExxonMobil interest, 45 percent) includes an early oil phase with capacity to produce up to 20 thousand barrels of oil per day (gross). The full development is expected to produce 165 thousand barrels of oil per day (gross) and is planned to have 49 wells, an onshore central processing facility, and a 60-mile pipeline to transport the processed oil to a floating storage and offloading vessel. Land acquisition and major contract tendering activities are under way for the full project. In 2008 a successful appraisal well was drilled at the Jambaran field. A Cepu exploration drilling program is planned for the 2009 to 2010 period.
In 2008 ExxonMobil submitted a Plan of Development and communicated intent to enter the next phase of development to the Indonesian government for the Natuna D-Alpha gas field (ExxonMobil interest, 76 percent), a large offshore gas field containing over 70 percent carbon dioxide. Development activity is under way while discussions are continuing with the government to achieve mutually agreeable contract terms.
In 2008 exploration activity continued in the Surumana and Mandar blocks (ExxonMobil interest, 100 percent) offshore Sulawesi in the Makassar Strait. New 3D seismic data were acquired over the Mandar block in 2008 with plans to initiate drilling in the Surumana and Mandar blocks in 2009.
ExxonMobil was awarded the 406,500-acre Gunting Block (ExxonMobil interest, 100 percent) onshore and offshore Java in 2008.
Malaysia
ExxonMobil operates 43 platforms in 17 fields as one of Malaysia's major suppliers of crude oil and natural gas. Net production in 2008 averaged 56 thousand barrels of liquids per day and 582 million cubic feet of gas per day.
In March 2008, ExxonMobil and the Malaysian national oil company, PETRONAS, agreed to continue to work together to help ensure sustainable energy supplies for Malaysia under a new Production Sharing Agreement. The 25-year agreement includes commitments to implement an enhanced oil recovery project at the Tapis Field, to continue conventional oil development, and to maintain the integrity and reliability of existing offshore facilities using ExxonMobil's advanced technology and project-execution capabilities.
In early 2008, ExxonMobil started up the Tapis F (ExxonMobil interest, 50 percent) and Jerneh B (ExxonMobil interest, 100 percent) gas platforms in the South China Sea. These projects are expected to deliver peak production of 270 million cubic feet per day of gas (gross) to Peninsular Malaysia.
Papua New Guinea (PNG)
In 2008 ExxonMobil's net production averaged 7 thousand barrels of oil per day. The Gas Agreement for the PNG LNG project (ExxonMobil interest, 33 percent) was signed in 2008 by the State of Papua New Guinea and the project's joint venture participants. After achieving this milestone, the project began front-end engineering and design for the gas processing facilities, pipelines, and LNG plant facilities. The project is planned to develop the Hides, Angore, and Juha fields to supply feed gas for a 6.3-million-tons-per-year LNG facility located 12 miles northwest of Port Moresby.
Philippines
Evaluation of the SC-56 block (ExxonMobil interest, 50 percent) continued with acquisition of a geochemical survey in 2008. Exploration drilling is planned in 2009.
New Zealand
ExxonMobil was awarded the 4-million-acre PEP50117 license (ExxonMobil interest, 90 percent) in the Great South Basin in 2007. In 2008, seismic data were acquired in preparation for a potential exploratory drilling program.
Hong Kong Power
Through a partnership with CLP Holdings, ExxonMobil has a 60-percent interest in the Castle Peak Power Company in Hong Kong with 6900 megawatts of power generation capacity, and a 51-percent interest in 600 megawatts of pumped storage capacity in southern China. The related electricity Scheme of Control Agreement with the Hong Kong government has been renewed for 10 years. An emissions reduction project is under way at the Castle Peak power station.
Table of Contents
Qatar
Through the Qatar joint ventures, ExxonMobil and Qatar Petroleum continue to develop the North Field, the largest non-associated gas field in the world. Resources exceeding 25 billion oil-equivalent barrels (gross) will be developed through existing and planned projects with ExxonMobil interest. The North Field is cost-competitive for supplying liquefied natural gas (LNG) to the major markets in Asia, Europe, and North America. By the end of 2009, the world's four largest LNG trains are expected to be online to further meet the world's growing energy demand.
LNG production from ExxonMobil-interest trains in Qatar was nearly 31 million tons in 2008 (gross). ExxonMobil participates in all of the existing Qatargas and RasGas trains (ExxonMobil interest ranges from 10 to 34 percent). The Al Khaleej domestic gas operation (ExxonMobil interest, 100 percent) produced about 720 million cubic feet per day in 2008.
Qatar Existing and Planned LNG Trains
 
RasGas is constructing two 7.8-million-tons-per-year LNG trains owned by Ras Laffan Liquefied Natural Gas Company (3), a joint venture between Qatar Petroleum and ExxonMobil. The scope of the project entails the design, construction, and operation of two mega LNG trains and associated facilities to produce approximately 15.6 million tons per year of LNG. Construction of all facilities is progressing with start-up of both Train 6 and Train 7 planned in 2009. Train 6 is planned to supply the U.S. market via the Golden Pass LNG regasification terminal and Train 7 is expected to supply Asia and other markets worldwide.
RasGas Trains 6 and 7
 - 
Qatargas II Train 4 is expected to start up in early 2009 and will be the first mega LNG train in the world with an annual capacity of 7.8 million tons. Train 5, which also will have an annual capacity of 7.8 million tons, is expected to start up later in 2009. Deliveries from Qatargas II will use a fleet of Q-Flex and Q-Max vessels, the world's largest LNG carriers. Shipments are planned primarily to the U.K. gas market through the South Hook LNG regasification terminal.
Qatargas II Trains 4 and 5
 - 
Construction and commissioning activities are continuing to progress at the Qatargas II Train 4 and 5 projects. Qatargas II Train 4 is expected to start up in early 2009 and Train 5 will follow later in the year.
Table of Contents
The second phase of the Al Khaleej Gas project is expected to start up in 2009, supplying 1.25 billion cubic feet per day of natural gas (gross) to meet Qatar's growing domestic demand and exporting 70 thousand barrels per day of liquids (gross). This is an expansion of Phase 1, which has operated since 2005.
Al Khaleej Gas
 - 
The initial phase of the Barzan project will supply domestic gas to meet Qatar's rapidly growing infrastructure and industry requirements. In 2007 ExxonMobil and Qatar Petroleum signed a Heads of Agreement to develop all future phases of the Barzan project. Front-end engineering and design are under way. The initial phase of the Barzan project is expected to produce about 1.5 billion cubic feet per day of gas (gross).
Barzan
 - 
RasGas and Qatargas are constructing common facilities on behalf of the Ras Laffan Industrial City joint venture companies for the storage and loading of LNG, condensates, LPG, and sulfur. The utilization of shared facilities enables each participant to benefit from significant economies of scale, resulting in billions of dollars of savings over stand-alone construction. Construction of all facilities is progressing as planned.
Qatar Common Facilities
 - 
United Arab Emirates
ExxonMobil participates in two oil concessions in the United Arab Emirates, one onshore and one offshore. In 2008 the daily net production from the onshore concession was 130 thousand barrels of oil. Daily net production from the Upper Zakum offshore concession was 154 thousand barrels of oil.
Upper Zakum (ExxonMobil interest, 28 percent) is one of the world's largest oil fields, with approximately 50 billion barrels originally in place, and less than 10 percent of the resource produced to date. ExxonMobil's capability to improve oil recovery, build production capacity, transfer technology, and develop staff was key to gaining entry to the field in 2006. The ExxonMobil Technology Center in Abu Dhabi is now fully operational to allow staff working on Upper Zakum access to the industry's most advanced technology in the areas of reservoir management, well management, and production operations.
Left:
The Q-Max ship (left) and the Q-Flex ship (right) are 80% and 45% larger than conventional-size LNG ships, respectively.
Below:
Upper Zakum is one of the world's largest oil fields. The central facilities, located offshore Abu Dhabi, process crude from 42 wellhead platforms.
Table of Contents
Russia/Caspian
ExxonMobil's operations in the Russia/Caspian region accounted for about 4 percent of the company's 2008 net oil and gas production and about 9 percent of Upstream earnings, with these percentages expected to increase as new projects come onstream. In the Caspian, ExxonMobil holds the unique position of participating in the development of three of the largest fields in the world: Kashagan and Tengiz in Kazakhstan, and Azeri-Chirag-Gunashli in Azerbaijan.
Russia
ExxonMobil operates and holds a 30-percent interest in the Sakhalin-1 area, which comprises three offshore fields  Chayvo, Odoptu, and Arkutun-Dagi. The Sakhalin-1 project is one of the largest single foreign investment projects in Russia and is being developed in phases. Production from Chayvo started in 2005.
Exploration activities on the Sakhalin-III blocks are pending resolution of award of exploration and production licenses by the Russian government. ExxonMobil continues to pursue new opportunities to participate jointly with Russian companies in Russia's energy industry.
In 2005 first oil production and gas sales to far east Russia commenced from the initial development phase of Sakhalin-1 Chayvo. The permanent onshore processing facilities and export system were commissioned in 2006. In 2008 gross production averaged 200 thousand barrels of oil per day and 145 million cubic feet of sales gas per day. Future phases will be implemented to maintain capacity utilization of the processing facility and export system and sustain field production for the long term.
Sakhalin-1 Chayvo
 - 
In 2006 a Heads of Agreement was signed with China National Petroleum Corporation (CNPC) for gas pipeline sales from Sakhalin-1 to China. Other regional gas sales options also continue to be evaluated.
The Yastreb drilling rig, specially built for the harsh arctic conditions in Sakhalin, provides the capacity needed to drill world-class extended-reach wells.
The next phases of the Sakhalin-1 project include the development of the Odoptu and Arkutun-Dagi fields. Odoptu detailed engineering was completed in 2008 while regulatory approvals and construction activities continued to progress. Arkutun-Dagi's early engineering activities continued to advance in 2008. Both projects will benefit from the infrastructure and learnings from Chayvo.
Sakhalin-1 Future Phases
 - 
Russia/Caspian Highlights
 
 
Russia/Caspian Production
(millions of oil-equivalent barrels per day)
Table of Contents
Azerbaijan
Phase 1 and 2 developments of the Azeri portion of the Azeri-Chirag-Gunashli (ACG) field (ExxonMobil interest, 8 percent) started up in 2005 and 2006, respectively. The Phase 3 development of the Deep Water Gunashli field started up in 2008. Total estimated recovery from the field is 5.4 billion oil-equivalent barrels (gross). In 2008 the ACG field achieved oil production rates in excess of 900 thousand barrels of oil per day (gross) and is expected to reach 1 million barrels per day (gross) by 2010.
Kazakhstan
ExxonMobil participates in the Tengizchevroil (TCO) joint venture (ExxonMobil interest, 25 percent), which includes a production license area encompassing the Tengiz field, an associated processing plant complex, and the nearby Korolev field. Including an exploration license adjacent to the production area, TCO holds a total of 608,000 acres (gross).
ExxonMobil also participates in the North Caspian Production Sharing Agreement, which includes the giant Kashagan field located offshore in the Caspian Sea. In 2008 final agreements were signed that reduced ExxonMobil's interest from 19 percent to 17 percent. Development activities for the Kashagan Phase 1 project are progressing.
The giant Tengiz field in Kazakhstan has produced over 1 billion barrels of oil from a resource of nearly 6 billion barrels (gross). TCO completed a major expansion that included sour gas injection and a second-generation gas-handling project at the Tengiz field in 2008, which increased the daily crude production capacity of the field to 540 thousand barrels of oil per day (gross). A planned future expansion could develop an additional 1 billion barrels of oil and provide a further 370 thousand barrels per day (gross) of incremental capacity.
Tengiz
 - 
The Kashagan field will be developed in phases. Phase 1, which is currently under construction, includes an offshore production and separation hub on an artificial island, several drilling islands, three onshore oil-stabilization trains, two onshore gas treatment plants, and an onshore sulfur treatment plant. This phase is anticipated to produce 3.6 billion barrels of oil at a production rate of 360 thousand barrels per day (gross). Future phases are expected to increase recovery to 12 billion barrels of oil at a production rate of approximately 1.5 million barrels of oil per day (gross).
Kashagan
 - 
Production from the Tengiz field increased to 540 thousand barrels of oil per day (gross) following completion of a major expansion project in 2008.
Artificial islands in the Caspian Sea support the offshore drilling and production activities for the Kashagan Phase 1 development.
Table of Contents
Upstream Operating Statistics
 
     
 
 
Table of Contents
 Including Non-Consolidated Operations
NET NATURAL GAS PRODUCTION AVAILABLE FOR SALE
(1)
 
NATURAL GAS SALES
(1)
 
Table of Contents
 
Table of Contents
 PROVED OIL AND GAS RESERVES
(1)
 
Table of Contents
PROVED OIL AND GAS RESERVES REPLACEMENT
(1)(2)(3)
 Units are million barrels of oil or billion cubic feet of gas unless specified otherwise
2008 Reserves Changes by Region
 
Table of Contents
PROVED OIL AND GAS RESERVES REPLACEMENT
(1)(2)(3)
 Units are million barrels of oil or billion cubic feet of gas unless specified otherwise
 
Table of Contents
 
OIL AND GAS EXPLORATION AND PRODUCTION EARNINGS
The revenue, cost, and earnings data are shown both on a total dollar and a unit basis, and are inclusive of non-consolidated and Canadian oil sands operations. They are not directly comparable to the data in Appendix A of ExxonMobil's 2009 Proxy Statement, which due to financial reporting requirements, treat Canadian oil sands as a mining operation. The data displayed here provide a more complete summary of ExxonMobil's exploration and production operations.
 
Table of Contents
Oil and Gas Exploration and Production Earnings (continued)
 
Table of Contents
Downstream
Refining & Supply, Fuels Marketing, and Lubricants & Specialties
DOWNSTREAM STRATEGIES
ExxonMobil's Downstream encompasses a global portfolio of businesses including refining, supply, fuels marketing, and lubricants and specialties operations. Our consistent business strategies are key to achieving sustained, outstanding performance:
Our focus on execution of these strategies drives operational excellence, continuous margin improvement, increased cost efficiency, and disciplined capital management. As a result, the Downstream is well-positioned to deliver long-term growth in shareholder value.
 
The Torrance refinery, located near Los Angeles, California, began operating in 1929 with a processing capacity of 30 thousand barrels per day. Over the past 80 years, we have grown Torrance's refining capacity to 150 thousand barrels per day and continually invested to increase its production of high-quality transportation fuels, reduce environmental impacts, and increase energy efficiency.
Table of Contents
2008 Results and Highlights
Best-ever lost-time injury rate for combined employee and contractor workforce.
Strong earnings of $8.2 billion,
generating a return on average capital employed of 32 percent.
Refinery throughput of 5.4 million barrels per day,
comparable to 2007 excluding the impact of the Gulf Coast hurricanes and portfolio changes.
Petroleum product sales of 6.8 million barrels per day.
Increased raw material flexibility through the use of proprietary technology.
Since 2004 we have run on average 125 crudes new to individual refineries every year.
Started up four new projects to produce lower-sulfur diesel and announced plans to invest more than $1 billion in three refineries 
Baytown, Texas; Baton Rouge, Louisiana; and Antwerp, Belgium  to further increase production of lower-sulfur diesel.
Downstream Return on Average Capital Employed
(1) Royal Dutch Shell, BP, and Chevron values are estimated on a consistent basis with ExxonMobil, based on public information.
with sufficient capacity to meet the refinery's power requirements as well as the majority of the power needs of the other ExxonMobil manufacturing sites in Belgium.
Began commissioning a new 125-megawatt cogeneration unit in our Antwerp, Belgium, refinery,
designed to improve fuel economy, benefitting the environment.
Launched
Mobil 1 Advanced Fuel Economy
synthetic motor oil,
 
DOWNSTREAM COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGES
We are the world's largest global refiner, manufacturer of lube basestocks, and supplier/marketer of petroleum products. Our large, world-class facilities are located in major markets around the world.
Portfolio Quality
 - 
Over 75 percent of our refining capacity is integrated with our lubes and/or chemical businesses. Our global functional organization facilitates efficient development and deployment of global best practices and new technologies.
Global Integration
 - 
Systematic processes and corresponding efficient execution have established us as an industry leader in operational excellence and cost effectiveness.
Discipline and Consistency
 - 
Proprietary Molecule Management technology enables us to optimize raw material selection and processing, and maximize yields of higher-value products.
Value Maximization
 - 
We maintain a disciplined capital approach focused on profitable and resilient investments that build our competitive advantage over time.
Long-Term Perspective
 - 
 
Table of Contents
Refining & Supply
ExxonMobil Refining & Supply integrates a global network of reliable and efficient manufacturing plants, transportation systems, and distribution centers to provide fuels, lubricants, feedstocks, and other high-value products to our customers around the world.
Our global supply organization optimizes our network, including selection and placement of raw materials to our refineries, efficient supply of products to our customers, and placement of ExxonMobil's equity crude. Our proven business model is founded on continuous operations improvement, leveraging our global scale and integration across businesses to improve margins and deliver efficiencies. We are meeting the growing demand for high-quality products through selective investments that yield a competitive advantage.
Largest Global Refiner
Pursuing Operational Excellence
We strive for excellence in all aspects of our operations. Personnel and operations safety remain our top priorities. Our Operations Integrity Management System (OIMS) framework delivers common worldwide expectations that help ensure safe and reliable operations. We continue to enhance personnel safety through focus on human factors. Our activities in this area include emphasis on personal
Operational excellence requires close monitoring of facilities and processes to ensure stable and safe operations and optimized performance.
 
awareness and accountability, ensuring compliance with proven procedures and standards, and increasing field observations and contractor training. We are also focused on improving operations safety by identifying and reducing risks inherent in our businesses, strengthening our systems and worker competencies, and upgrading our facilities. An example is our Plant Automation Venture that provides our operators with the latest technologies for operating procedures, real-time monitoring, and event detection and management.
We are also driving continuous improvement in other areas that impact operations, especially reliability, security, environmental protection, and business controls. These improvements are being made through selective investments, global management systems, best practice sharing, peer networks, and most importantly, through the commitment of our people. These processes and their efficient execution have established us as an industry leader in operational excellence.
Equity Capacity
(1)
 
Refinery Integration with Chemicals or Lubes
(1)
 
Table of Contents
Leveraging Global Scale and Integration
ExxonMobil is the world's largest refiner, with the world's largest distillation, conversion, and lube basestock production capacity. We have a strong presence in mature markets around the world as well as a significant presence in the high-growth Asia Pacific region. Our refineries are more than 60 percent larger than the industry average, with more conversion capacity and more integration with chemical and lubes operations. This scale and integration advantage provides us greater flexibility to optimize operations and produce higher-value products with lower feedstock and operating costs. We use an integrated approach when developing new business opportunities, an example of which is our refining, petrochemical, and fuels marketing venture in Fujian Province, China.
Combined with our scale and business integration, our global functional organization, established networks, and extensive research programs ensure rapid and efficient development and deployment of best practices and technologies. We use Integrated Business Teams, which combine refining, logistics, and marketing expertise to optimize specific geographies and businesses and capture maximum shareholder value.
These structural advantages are difficult for competitors to duplicate. Throughout the business cycle, we continue to focus on identifying margin improvements and operating efficiencies that underpin our leading financial performance.
 
We expanded the capacity of the delayed coking unit at our Baytown, Texas, refinery in 2008. Since 1996 we have added the effective capacity of an industry-average-size conversion unit every two years across our refining circuit.
A new furnace is installed in the vacuum distillation unit of the Dartmouth refinery in Nova Scotia, Canada. This project will increase capacity and reduce energy usage.
 
Maintaining Capital Discipline
We continue to take a disciplined and long-term approach to investments in order to meet the world's energy needs while sustaining industry-leading returns. Our capital investments include projects to meet new product quality requirements, reduce environmental impact, further upgrade safety systems, lower operating costs, produce higher-value products and chemical feedstocks, and process lower-cost raw materials. To increase capacity and improve product yields, we focus on expansions at existing sites and low-cost debottleneck projects that generate attractive returns over a range of market conditions, such as our recent coker expansion in Baytown, Texas. Since 1996 we have added the effective capacity of an industry-average-size conversion unit every two years across our refining circuit.
In 2008 we completed construction and successfully started up several projects that produce lower-sulfur diesel fuel in Europe and North America. We also announced plans to invest more than $1 billion in three refineries  Baton Rouge, Louisiana; Baytown, Texas; and, Antwerp, Belgium  which will allow us to increase lower-sulfur diesel fuel production at these sites by approximately 6 million gallons per day. When completed in 2010, this increased production will be equivalent to the diesel produced from about four average-size refineries.
ExxonMobil's Capital Project System, EMCAPS, continues to provide industry-leading performance in project development and execution. Over the last eight years, our major project costs have averaged 5 to 10 percent below that of the refining industry, as confirmed by external benchmarking. We strive to improve our project execution efficiency by leveraging our global scale and utilizing a rigorous post-project appraisal process to capture lessons learned and continuously improve our project management system.
Table of Contents
Increasing Margin
We improve margins by focusing on three key areas: economically growing production, reducing raw material costs, and increasing product realizations.
We strive to increase production by maximizing utilization of our existing refining capacity. We focus on improving reliability, identifying and eliminating operating constraints, optimizing planned maintenance and intervals between planned downtimes, and expanding market outlets. These improvements are driven by the disciplined application of our proprietary Global Reliability System and Molecule Management technology. In addition we continue to increase production capability through capacity expansions and debottlenecks. We are currently installing facilities to triple the size of our joint venture refinery in Fujian Province, China. This project is expected to start up in 2009 and will help meet the growing demand for products in Asia Pacific.
Production Growth
 - 
We continue to find new, innovative methods to reduce raw material costs. For example we have expanded the application of advanced molecular fingerprinting and modeling technologies that improve our understanding of the behavior and characteristics of feedstocks processed in our refineries. This technology enables us to more precisely select and blend crudes with properties that will maximize yields and margins throughout our operating facilities.
Raw Materials
 - 
ExxonMobil is an industry leader in processing challenged crudes, running about twice as much as industry on a percentage basis. Challenged crudes are typically discounted in the marketplace because they have properties such as acid corrosivity, high nitrogen content, and other
ExxonMobil Raw Material Flexibility
New Crudes to Individual Refineries
 
impurities that make them difficult to handle or process. Another measure of our raw material flexibility is the number of crudes that are new to each refinery. In 2008 we processed 150 crudes new to individual sites.
In addition to improving raw material selection, our Molecule Management technology ensures the highest-value products are produced. This is especially important at our integrated sites to ensure that value is maximized across our Fuels Marketing, Lubricants & Specialties, and Chemical businesses. Our processing models enable us to optimize, at the molecular level, the entire manufacturing site as well as individual process unit operations on a real-time basis to increase the yields and blending of higher-value products. Placement of these products is optimized by our Integrated Business Teams.
Products
 - 
MOLECULE MANAGEMENT
Our goal is to capture the highest value for every molecule across the manufacturing supply chain. This is accomplished by using a suite of proprietary Molecule Management technologies and work practices that enhance our knowledge of each crude's molecular makeup. When used in conjunction with our process optimization models, we ensure the highest value disposition for each molecule.
Scientists and engineers at our Clinton, New Jersey, research center develop models to determine the molecular composition of different crude oils.
Fingerprinting Crude Oil
Our proprietary technology works by analyzing a light-generated spectrum that is unique to each crude. By using mathematical algorithms, we can determine the molecular composition of each grade of crude, allowing faster and better feedstock purchasing decisions.
Increasing Margin
Along with improved raw material selection, Molecule Management technology optimizes the manufacturing operation in real-time. Throughout the refining process, our online process control applications incorporate the use of detailed proprietary models to drive the refinery operation to an economic optimum. The result is higher yields of products that our customers value.
Table of Contents
Improving Operating Efficiency
The cash operating costs at our refineries worldwide are substantially below the industry average, as confirmed by external benchmarking.
We achieve industry-leading cost performance by leveraging our scale and integration as well as our leading-edge technologies to produce numerous efficiencies. We have been successful in developing energy and cost efficiencies that partially offset inflation as well as much of the increased expense associated with operations improvements and new process units.
Improved energy efficiency is a key contributor to our strong cost performance and we have consistently outpaced industry in this area. ExxonMobil's proprietary Global Energy Management System (GEMS) focuses on opportunities that reduce the energy consumed at our refineries and chemical plants. Savings equal to 15 to 20 percent of the energy consumed at our manufacturing sites have been identified to date using GEMS. Through 2008 we have captured nearly 60 percent of these savings.
Energy Initiatives
 - 
In addition to energy improvement, we capture cost savings through economies of scale. For example we use shared organizations to support operations at integrated refining and chemical sites, and continue to progress our global training initiative to improve overall workforce productivity. We are also implementing new maintenance technologies to improve workforce productivity and reduce costs. Our global procurement organization contributes to our competitive advantage. By capitalizing on our purchasing scale, market intelligence, global best practices, and a strong partnership with other ExxonMobil business units, our manufacturing sites are supplied with lower-cost materials and services.
Cost Efficiencies
 - 
ENERGY
Energy accounts for about one-half of the total cash operating costs at our refineries.
Efficiency
We are on track to meet our target of improving energy efficiency across our worldwide refining and chemical operations by at least 10 percent between 2002 and 2012. This target is consistent with the American Petroleum Institute's in the United States.
Voluntary Climate Challenge Program
Cogeneration
Cogeneration is the simultaneous production of electricity and useful heat or steam. With the latest technology, cogeneration is significantly more efficient than traditional methods of producing steam and power separately and also results in lower emissions. In 2008 we started commissioning a cogeneration unit in Antwerp, Belgium, with 125 megawatts of capacity. We are planning to start up a 252-megawatt facility in Fujian Province, China, in 2009 (shown below).
 
ExxonMobil Refining
Cost Efficiency
(1)(2)(3)
 
Table of Contents
Fuels Marketing
ExxonMobil Fuels Marketing creates long-term value by selling high-quality products and services daily to millions of customers across the globe, providing a secure, ratable, and profitable outlet for our refineries. Fuels Marketing continues to be well-positioned to successfully compete in a dynamic and competitive marketplace by focusing on key business fundamentals: superior safety and environmental performance; efficiency improvements from global scale and integration; disciplined portfolio restructuring and capital management; and, customer-focused marketing initiatives.
Diverse Customer Base Provides Global Outlet
ExxonMobil fuel products and services are provided through our four business lines  Retail, Industrial & Wholesale, Aviation, and Marine.
About 50 percent of our Fuels Marketing volume is sold through our network of nearly 29,000 service stations worldwide. Drawing on our global retailing experience and extensive consumer and market research, Fuels Marketing offers innovative market-specific retail formats and products to meet our customers' needs and expectations.
Retail  - 
As the second-largest sales channel in Fuels Marketing, Industrial & Wholesale serves a diverse portfolio of customers worldwide, including transportation fleets, power generation companies, the agriculture sector, manufacturers, and mining operations.
Industrial &
Wholesale  - 
Exxon, Mobil, Esso
Our respected
and
branded retail sites provide fuel to about 7 million vehicles every day.
 
With business at airports around the world, ExxonMobil Aviation plays an important role in the transportation of people and goods for commercial airlines, general aviation, and the military.
Aviation  - 
Operating in ports globally, ExxonMobil Marine provides fuel to help meet the needs of the shipping industry fleet, including bulk and container carriers, tankers, ferries, and cruise ships.
Marine  - 
 
ExxonMobil reliably supplies high-quality fuel for 1 million commercial customers worldwide.
ExxonMobil Aviation, one of the world's leading suppliers of jet fuel, refuels a commercial airliner in Birmingham, United Kingdom.
Table of Contents
Operating Cost Efficiency
(1)
Operating Expenses
(percent change)
 
Capital Productivity
(1)
Sales Volume per Dollar of Average Capital Employed
(percent change)
 
     
 
Operating Strengths and Efficiencies
We continuously look for ways to further improve our Fuels Marketing business. This begins with leveraging the company's operating strengths in the areas of safety, environmental performance, and business controls. One important area of success is management of credit exposure. Fuels Marketing's portfolio generates significant revenue, which is managed with disciplined and global credit practices. Through sound receivables management, Fuels Marketing continues to reduce overall working capital employed, improving financial returns and mitigating credit exposure.
Efficiency improvements continue to reduce operating expenses through the global application of innovative technologies and centralization of support activities, along with alignment and automation of work processes. The combined impact of our initiatives and portfolio highgrading activities offsets inflation and further reduces operating expenses.
Disciplined Capital Management
The ExxonMobil capital management strategy combines selective investments and disciplined asset highgrading to
optimize the profitability of our business. Retail investments are prioritized through a rigorous, disciplined, and globally consistent market-planning process using sophisticated tools and demographic models.
Our investment decisions are complemented by selective divestments that highgrade our asset base and optimize overall financial returns. In addition, our restructuring activities continue to enhance integration with our refining assets. This disciplined and consistent approach has improved our capital efficiency by 55 percent since 2004.
Integrated Business Teams
Downstream cross-functional teams work together to optimize the value of ExxonMobil's refined products. We continue to leverage integration with refining across our four Fuels Marketing business lines. Downstream Integrated Business Teams evaluate product placement alternatives in each market around the world, optimizing sales to higher-value channels. Common work processes, tools, and analytical methodologies enable the Integrated Business Teams to achieve these results.
Table of Contents
Lubricants & Specialties
ExxonMobil is a leading marketer of finished lubricants, asphalts, and specialty products, as well as the world's No. 1 supplier of lube basestocks. Our global brands identify ExxonMobil products that are sold around the world.
and lubricants are at the forefront of these brands. Major car and industrial equipment manufacturers trust us to deliver technically superior products that protect their customers' engines and machinery, enabling peak performance while improving energy efficiency. Our dedicated global organization and strong distribution network focus on delivering a reliable supply of high-quality lubricants and providing technical application expertise to customers around the world.
Mobil 1
Mobil SHC
Global Lubricants Leadership Position
 
Technology Leadership
ExxonMobil's lubricants are valued by our customers because of their quality, reliability, and technical properties developed through close relationships with original equipment manufacturers. Our products have demonstrated the ability to withstand the severest performance tests, including those of motorsports racing such as , and the series. This technology leadership allows ExxonMobil to meet the needs of customers for automotive, industrial, commercial transportation, marine, and aviation applications around the world. Our products are also backed by a variety of technical services designed to provide customers with worry-free operations.  
Formula 1, NASCAR, Porsche SuperCup
American Le Mans
 
Lewis Hamilton is the 2008
FIA Formula 1
World Drivers' Champion. ExxonMobil is a technology partner with the
Vodafone McLaren Mercedes
team.
Mobil 1
is the world's leading synthetic motor oil. Our blend plant in Paulsboro, New Jersey, supplies ExxonMobil products to customers in North America.
 
As the company renowned for technology leadership, ExxonMobil continues to introduce new and innovative products that also improve energy efficiency. In addition to synthetic motor oil, we have developed products such as and , technically advanced products specifically designed for efficient wind turbine applications. Approximately 60 percent of gear-driven wind turbines manufactured around the world are filled with Industrial Lubricants.
Mobil 1 Advanced Fuel Economy
Mobilgear SHC XMP
Mobil SHC Grease WT
Mobil
World-Class Brands
In the finished lubricants business, our global brands continue to grow their presence in premium segments. , our flagship engine oil, is the recommended choice of many of the world's most prestigious carmakers. No other motor oil holds as many engine specification approvals. Automotive manufacturers that recommend motor oil for their high-performance vehicles include the makers of , and .
Mobil 1
Mobil 1
Aston Martin, Bentley, Mercedes, Porsche, Saab, Cadillac, Corvette, Acura
Nissan
Table of Contents
We are also a leader in the industrial lubricants sector, where we market the brand. Our track record of over 100 years in industrial lubrication has enabled us to deliver solutions to lubrication challenges that help improve our customers' productivity. products offer long oil and equipment life, less used oil, and potential energy savings.
Mobil SHC
Mobil SHC
Strategic Global Alliances
Globally respected brands and industry-leading technology enable ExxonMobil to build enduring and successful strategic global alliances with automotive and industrial equipment manufacturers. We enjoy strong relationships with global partners such as Caterpillar, General Motors, Mercedes-Benz, Peugeot, Porsche, and Toyota, with which we collaborate on developing innovative new lubricants. This approach leads to long-standing technology partnerships, such as our relationship with Porsche. Every new engine is filled with motor oil. Motorsports sponsorships, like those in with the team, and and with Penske Racing, provide ideal environments for developing and demonstrating our high-performance lubricants. technology helped driver Lewis Hamilton become a world champion in 2008.
Porsche
Mobil 1
Formula 1
Vodafone McLaren Mercedes
NASCAR
IRL
Mobil 1
Vodafone McLaren Mercedes
Growth in Emerging Markets
As economies around the world develop and industrialize, they bring increased demand for high-quality industrial and automotive lubricants. Our strong global brands, proprietary technology, and low-cost, efficient, and reliable supply chain capability enable us to take advantage of these growth opportunities. For example in China and Singapore, we are progressing investments in blend plant expansions. In Russia we launched a new range of products and in China, we opened our 750th service center during 2008. Leveraging our well-recognized brands, strong original equipment manufacturer relationships, and a well-positioned supply network has enabled us to double our business in these growth markets since 2000.
Mobil 1
Mobil 1
Synthetic Lubricants Growth
 
Above:
Continued investments in our facilities in the Asia Pacific region support growth of lubricant sales.
Below:
Approximately 60 percent of gear-driven wind turbines manufactured are filled with
Mobil
Industrial Lubricants.
Table of Contents
Asia Pacific
Between 2005 and 2030, we expect global demand for liquids products to grow approximately 1 percent per year. In developed economies, such as the United States and Europe, total liquids demand is projected to decline with gains in energy efficiency. In comparison, demand in Asia Pacific is expected to grow about 2 percent per year with product demand projected to increase more than 65 percent from 2005 to 2030. This demand is driven by rapid growth in the car fleet, increasing road and sea freight movements, and strong growth in the demand for chemical feedstocks. About 55 percent of the growth in the region is from China and 20 percent from India.
Scope of Downstream Operations
ExxonMobil is the largest international oil company in Asia Pacific with 1.7 million barrels per day of processing capacity spread over 11 refineries in seven countries. Our Singapore plant, which encompasses refining, lubes, and chemical facilities, is one of the largest integrated manufacturing complexes in the region.
Total product sales of 1.4 million barrels per day include a full range of petroleum products. Our fuel products are sold to numerous market segments, including retail customers; industrial, aviation, and marine businesses; in addition to supply sales.
Within our Lubricants & Specialties business, we market and sell lube basestocks, specialties, and asphalt, as well as finished lubricants through a network of nine lube oil blend plants in the region. We also have over 800 service centers that supply our world-class flagship product to our customers.
Mobil 1
Fujian  An Integrated Approach
In mid-2007 ExxonMobil, along with our partners Saudi Aramco, Sinopec, and Fujian Province, formed the only fully integrated refining, petrochemical, and fuels marketing joint venture with foreign participation in China. We are currently progressing an expansion project that will increase refinery capacity from 80 thousand barrels per day to 240 thousand barrels per day. The project also includes a world-scale integrated chemical plant. The new facilities are projected to start up in 2009. In addition the fuels marketing portion of the venture includes approximately 750 retail sites and a network of distribution terminals.
 
Construction of the Fujian site expansion project in China is nearing completion and expected to start up in 2009.
Table of Contents
Downstream Operating Statistics
 THROUGHPUT, CAPACITY, AND UTILIZATION
(1)
 
Low-Sulfur Gasoline and Diesel Facility Start-Ups
Table of Contents
   
REFINING CAPACITY AT YEAR-END 2008
(1)
 
Table of Contents
 
REFINING CAPACITY AT YEAR-END 2008
(1)
(continued)
 
Table of Contents
 
PETROLEUM PRODUCT SALES
(1)
BY GEOGRAPHIC AREA
 
Table of Contents
  PETROLEUM PRODUCT SALES
(1)
 
  
RETAIL SITES
Table of Contents
Chemical
CHEMICAL STRATEGIES
ExxonMobil Chemical has delivered industry-leading performance through superior implementation of fundamental strategies that have been proven over numerous business cycles. We remain committed to these strategies through changing business environments:
These strategies reflect ExxonMobil's ongoing commitment to the petrochemical business. Together with our core business practices and focus on operations integrity, they remain the foundation for our business, and ultimately, our performance.
ExxonMobil Chemical's operations are highly integrated with refining complexes. The Baton Rouge Chemical Plant benefits from feedstock optimization and operational synergies with the Baton Rouge Refinery.  
Table of Contents
2008 Results and Highlights
Industry-leading workforce safety was achieved through continued focus on operational excellence.
down 35 percent from the 2007 record. ExxonMobil continued to benefit from our global business portfolio, high degree of integration, and feedstock advantages. Earnings from our less-cyclical specialty businesses exceeded $1 billion for the second consecutive year.
Earnings were $3.0 billion,
down from 34 percent in 2007. ExxonMobil Chemical returns continued to exceed the average of our major chemical competitors. Over the last 10 years we achieved an average return of 18 percent while our competitors averaged 8 percent. It also marked the fifth consecutive year above a 20-percent return.
Return on average capital employed was 20 percent,
as lower global demand and broad supply chain inventory de-stocking in the second half of the year challenged sales.
Prime product sales of 25 million tons were 9 percent lower than 2007,
Chemical Outperformed Competition Across the Business Cycle
Return on Average Capital Employed
(1) Includes the chemical segments of Royal Dutch Shell, BP (through 2004), and Chevron, as well as Dow Chemical, the sole publicly traded chemical-only competitor with a significant portfolio overlap. Competitor values are estimated on a consistent basis with ExxonMobil, based on public information.
Revenue was $55 billion.
as construction progressed on world-scale growth projects in Fijian, China, and Singapore. We continued selective investment in specialty business growth and for high-return efficiency projects.
Chemical capital expenditures were $2.8 billion,
 
 
CHEMICAL COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGES
Our unique mix of Chemical businesses delivers superior performance relative to competition throughout the business cycle.
Portfolio Quality
 - 
We continue to identify and capture synergies with the Upstream and Downstream. Benefits are derived from the physical integration of sites, feedstock integration, coordinated planning, global networks, shared services, and best-practice sharing.
Global Integration
 - 
Our consistent and relentless focus on all aspects of operational excellence has produced industry-leading practices and systems.
Discipline and Consistency
 - 
 
Our proprietary technology has led to the successful implementation of lower-cost processes, faster sales growth of higher-value premium products, and increased sources of advantaged feedstocks.
Value Maximization
 - 
We use a highly structured capital management approach to ensure that we invest in projects with feedstock, technology, and marketing advantages that can compete in the toughest market environments.
Long-Term Perspective
 - 
 
Table of Contents
Chemical Strategies
Disciplined and consistent execution of our long-term strategies has translated into superior returns across the business cycle. These strategies have been tested and proven to be successful over decades, and effective implementation has strengthened ExxonMobil's position as one of the world's premier petrochemical companies.
Focus on Businesses that Capitalize
on Core Competencies
ExxonMobil has developed a unique portfolio of commodity and specialty businesses over many years, built on proprietary technology and a high degree of raw material integration.
We hold leadership positions in some of the largest-volume and highest-growth commodity petrochemical products in the world. Specifically we are:
The Singapore Chemical Plant is fully integrated with ExxonMobil's largest refinery. The addition of a second world-scale petrochemical facility in Singapore will help meet increasing demand in Asia and reinforces ExxonMobil's commitment to the petrochemical business.
 
raw material for the manufacture of polyester fibers and polyethylene terephthalate (PET) bottles. Benzene is a fundamental building block for a wide variety of products ranging from nylon carpeting to automobile headlamps to CDs/DVDs.
We have also built leadership positions in a diverse set of less-cyclical specialty business lines, all of which rank first or second globally by market position. These products deliver advanced performance in a broad array of applications, translating to higher value for our customers.
Our specialty business portfolio includes butyl polymers, specialty elastomers, synthetic lubricant basestocks, oriented polypropylene films, plasticizers and oxo alcohols, hydrocarbon and oxygenated fluids, adhesive polymers, and petroleum additives. Competitive advantage has been developed and sustained through proprietary technology, advantaged feedstocks, operational excellence, and synergies across business lines.
 
Differentiated Business Mix
Segment Earnings
Table of Contents
Consistently Deliver Best-in-Class Performance
We maintain a consistent and relentless focus on operational excellence in every aspect of our business. Business practices and systems have been developed and continuously improved over many years to ensure uncompromising integrity of our operations and delivery of industry-leading performance.
Our disciplined approach to improve safety, reliability, productivity, and quality continues to increase the contribution of existing assets. Structured programs enable identification and capture of process efficiencies, improved operability, and the addition of increased capacity at significantly less than grassroots cost.
We have also systematically identified and captured energy efficiencies through the extensive use of our Global Energy Management System. We have leveraged best practices from operations around the world to identify key energy variables and optimized operating conditions. As a result, our energy consumed per unit of output has decreased, and our improvement rate in steam cracking energy efficiency has outpaced that of industry.
Applying a disciplined approach to improve our supply chain and marketing activities has yielded similar benefits. By focusing on areas such as supply chain network optimization, transactional excellence, and growth of premium product sales, we have improved our offering to customers while reducing costs.
Build Proprietary Technology Positions
Discovery, development, and deployment of industry-leading process and product technology is a source of competitive advantage for ExxonMobil. We focus significant research on the identification, development, and commercialization of lower-cost advantaged feedstocks, more efficient operating processes, and higher-value premium products.
Steam Cracking Energy Efficiency
(1)(2)(3)
 
Capture Full Benefits of Integration
Across ExxonMobil Operations
ExxonMobil supplies the global chemical industry from a network of manufacturing sites located around the world. More than 90 percent of the chemical capacity that we own and operate is integrated with our large refineries or natural gas processing plants.
The benefits derived from integration are a key differentiating factor that allows ExxonMobil to consistently outperform competition. Physical integration of our manufacturing sites allows us to maximize operating flexibility and capture associated cost savings. Use of sophisticated computer models allows us to optimize feedstock and production plans on a real-time basis, a capability not easily duplicated without common ownership and co-location of refinery and chemical facilities. At our joint sites we also achieve synergies through shared maintenance, laboratory, engineering, and support services. More broadly, best practices in areas such as safety, reliability, and project execution are transferred across all organizations.
Steam cracking remains the foundation of the petrochemical industry. The Fife Ethylene Plant in the United Kingdom is one of Europe's largest and most modern steam crackers, producing ethylene from North Sea natural gas liquids.
Table of Contents
Selectively Invest in Advantaged Projects
In 2008 we increased construction activity on projects in China and Singapore. These two projects, along with proposed investments in Saudi Arabia and Qatar, will build on our existing world-scale asset base of strategically located and advantaged facilities to meet demand growth in Asia.
Through 2015 we expect about 60 percent of global petrochemical demand growth will occur in Asia, with over one-third in China alone. To meet this growth, we are investing in projects in Asia and the Middle East with long-term competitive advantages, including integration with other operations, advantaged feedstocks, proprietary technology, and market access.
Well-Positioned for Asia Growth
 - 
 
The new petrochemical facilities in the Fujian, China, joint venture, will be fully integrated with refining. Start-up is scheduled for 2009.
We also continued to invest for growth in our specialty businesses, which remain an important contributor to the Chemical company's performance.
Specialty Business Growth
 - 
 
APPROVED MAJOR PROJECTS
 
Table of Contents
Overview of Key Products
ExxonMobil Chemical is a premier supplier of commodity and specialty chemicals found in a wide variety of end uses. New and enhanced products and applications are continually being developed to meet evolving customer needs.
Polyethylene
   fuel tanks, storage tanks
Automotive
 - 
milk bottles, storage containers, toys
Consumer
 - 
   flexible food packaging, bags
Packaging
 - 
Polypropylene
clothes washer parts, dishwasher liners
Appliance
 - 
interior and exterior trim parts
Automotive
 - 
packaging, diapers, health care
Consumer
 - 
Specialty Elastomers
hoses, belts, door and window seals
Automotive
 - 
appliance parts, household goods
Consumer
 - 
roof sheeting, electrical cable insulation
Industrial
 - 
 
BATTERY SEPARATOR FILM
New film technologies developed by ExxonMobil open up new opportunities in hybrid and electric vehicles.
Separator film is an integral part of a lithium-ion battery (LIB) system and critical to performance. The separator contributes to battery efficiency, safety, and longevity.
Our separator films were used to develop the world's first rechargeable LIB in 1991, and these batteries are now common in small devices such as cell phones, laptop computers, and cordless power tools.
Our latest innovation yields a new family of separator films that can improve the safety, power, and reliability of much larger lithium-ion batteries needed for next-generation automobiles.
ExxonMobil's new battery separator film technology for lithium-ion battery systems could, with continued cost reductions, help put more hybrid and electric vehicles on the road.
Butyl polymers from ExxonMobil enhance performance in critical tire components.
ExxonMobil Chemical is a major supplier of adhesive polymers for tapes, labels, and glues.
ExxonMobil fluids are key components for paints, coatings, and inks.
Our plasticizers soften plastics used in many everyday products.
Table of Contents
Chemical Operating Statistics
  
LARGE / INTEGRATED PRODUCTION COMPLEX CAPACITY
(1)(2)
Propylene       Butyl      Specialty Elastomers       Adhesive Polymers       Fluids       Oxo Alcohols       Synthetics
P
B
E
A
F
O
S
 
  
OTHER MANUFACTURING LOCATIONS
(1)
 
Olefins/Aromatics      Polymers      Other Chemicals      Films
n
l
u
Table of Contents
 
VOLUMES
 
 
2008 Prime Product Sales Volumes
Premium Product Sales Volumes
Table of Contents
Frequently Used Terms
Listed below are definitions of several of ExxonMobil's key business and financial performance measures and other terms. These definitions are provided to facilitate understanding of the terms and their calculation. In the case of financial measures that we believe constitute "non-GAAP financial measures" under Securities and Exchange Commission Regulation G, we provide a reconciliation to the most comparable Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) measure and other information required by that rule.
EARNINGS EXCLUDING SPECIAL ITEMS
In addition to reporting U.S. GAAP defined net income, ExxonMobil also presents a measure of earnings that excludes earnings from special items quantified and described in our quarterly and annual earnings press releases. Earnings excluding special items is a non-GAAP financial measure, and is included to facilitate comparisons of base business performance across periods. A reconciliation to net income is shown on page 10. We also refer to earnings excluding special items as normalized earnings. Earnings per share amounts use the same average common shares outstanding as used for the calculation of net income per common share and net income per common share  assuming dilution.
OPERATING COSTS
Operating costs are the combined total of production, manufacturing, selling, general, administrative, exploration, depreciation, and depletion expenses from the Consolidated Statement of Income and ExxonMobil's share of similar costs for equity companies. Operating costs are the costs during the period to produce, manufacture, and otherwise prepare the company's products for sale  including energy costs, staffing, maintenance, and other costs to explore for and produce oil and gas, and operate refining and chemical plants. Distribution and marketing expenses are also included. Operating costs exclude the cost of raw materials, taxes, and interest expense. These expenses are on a before-tax basis. While ExxonMobil's management is responsible for all revenue and expense elements of net income, operating costs, as defined below, represent the expenses most directly under management's control. Information regarding these costs is therefore useful for investors and ExxonMobil management in evaluating management's performance.
TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN
Shareholder return measures the change in value of an investment in stock over a specified period of time, assuming dividend reinvestment. We calculate shareholder return over a particular measurement period by: dividing (1) the sum of (a) the cumulative value of dividends received during the measurement period, assuming reinvestment, plus (b) the difference between the stock price at the end
Table of Contents
and at the beginning of the measurement period; by (2) the stock price at the beginning of the measurement period. For this purpose, we assume dividends are reinvested in stock at market prices at approximately the same time actual dividends are paid. Shareholder return is usually quoted on an annualized basis.
CAPITAL AND EXPLORATION EXPENDITURES (Capex)
Capital and exploration expenditures are the combined total of additions at cost to property, plant, and equipment and exploration expenses on a before-tax basis from the Summary Statement of Income. ExxonMobil's Capex includes its share of similar costs for equity companies. Capex excludes depreciation on the cost of exploration support equipment and facilities recorded to property, plant, and equipment when acquired. While ExxonMobil's management is responsible for all investments and elements of net income, particular focus is placed on managing the controllable aspects of this group of expenditures.
CAPITAL EMPLOYED
Capital employed is a measure of net investment. When viewed from the perspective of how the capital is used by the businesses, it includes ExxonMobil's net share of property, plant, and equipment and other assets less liabilities, excluding both short-term and long-term debt. When viewed from the perspective of the sources of capital employed in total for the Corporation, it includes ExxonMobil's share of total debt and shareholders' equity. Both of these views include ExxonMobil's share of amounts applicable to equity companies, which the Corporation believes should be included to provide a more comprehensive measure of capital employed.
RETURN ON AVERAGE CAPITAL EMPLOYED (ROCE)
Return on average capital employed is a performance measure ratio. From the perspective of the business segments, ROCE is annual business segment earnings divided by average business segment capital employed (average of beginning- and end-of-year amounts). These segment earnings include ExxonMobil's share of segment earnings of equity companies, consistent with our capital employed definition, and exclude the cost of financing. The Corporation's total ROCE is net income excluding the after-tax cost of financing, divided by total corporate average capital employed. The Corporation has consistently applied its ROCE definition for many years and views it as the best measure of historical capital productivity in our capital-intensive, long-term industry, both to evaluate management's performance and to demonstrate to shareholders that capital has been used wisely over the long term. Additional measures, which are more cash-flow based, are used to make investment decisions.
Table of Contents
ENTITLEMENT VOLUME EFFECTS
Production Sharing Contract (PSC) net interest reductions are contractual reductions in ExxonMobil's share of production volumes covered by PSCs. These reductions typically occur when cumulative investment returns or production volumes achieve thresholds as specified in the PSCs. Once a net interest reduction has occurred, it typically will not be reversed by subsequent events, such as lower crude oil prices.
Production Sharing Contract Net Interest Reductions  - 
Price and spend impacts on volumes are fluctuations in ExxonMobil's share of production volumes caused by changes in oil and gas prices or spending levels from one period to another. For example, at higher prices fewer barrels are required for ExxonMobil to recover its costs. According to the terms of contractual arrangements or government royalty regimes, price or spending variability can increase or decrease royalty burdens and/or volumes attributable to ExxonMobil. These effects generally vary from period to period with field spending patterns or market prices for crude oil or natural gas.
Price and Spend Impacts
on Volumes  - 
FINDING AND RESOURCE-ACQUISITION COSTS
Finding and resource-acquisition costs per oil-equivalent barrel is a performance measure that is calculated using the Exploration portion of Upstream capital and exploration expenditures and proved property acquisition costs divided by resource additions (in oil-equivalent barrels). ExxonMobil refers to new discoveries and acquisitions of discovered resources as resource additions. In addition to proved reserves, resource additions include quantities of oil and gas that are not yet classified as proved reserves, but which ExxonMobil believes will likely be moved into the proved reserves category and produced in the future.
LIQUIDS AND NATURAL GAS PROVED RESERVES
In this report, we use the term "proved reserves" to mean quantities of oil and gas that ExxonMobil has determined to be reasonably certain of recovery under existing economic and operating conditions on the basis of our long-standing, rigorous management review process. We book proved reserves when we have made significant funding commitments for the related projects. In this report, we aggregate proved reserves of consolidated and equity companies, excluding royalties and quantities due others, since ExxonMobil does not view these reserves differently from a management perspective. To reflect management's view of ExxonMobil's total liquids reserves, proved reserves in this report also include oil sands reserves from the Canadian Syncrude and Kearl operations, which are reported separately as mining reserves in our Form 10-K and proxy statement. Oil sands reserves included in this report totaled 1,871 million barrels at year-end 2008, 694 million barrels at year-end 2007, 718 million barrels at year-end 2006, 738 million barrels at year-end 2005, and 757 million barrels at year-end 2004. For our own management purposes and as discussed in this report, we determine proved reserves based on price and cost assumptions that are consistent with those used to make investment decisions. Therefore, the proved reserves in this report are not directly comparable to the data reported in our Form 10-K and proxy statement. Based on regulatory guidance, ExxonMobil began in 2004 to state our results in the Form 10-K and proxy statement to reflect the impacts on proved reserves of utilizing December 31 liquids and natural gas prices ("year-end price/cost effects"). On this basis, year-end proved reserves, including year-end price/cost effects totaled 23.0 billion oil-equivalent barrels in 2008, 22.5 billion oil-equivalent barrels in 2007, 22.8 billion oil-equivalent barrels in 2006, 22.4 billion oil-equivalent barrels in 2005, and 21.7 billion oil-equivalent barrels in 2004. Excluding year-end price/cost effects, 2008 proved reserves totaled 22.8 billion oil-equivalent barrels, 2007 proved reserves totaled 22.7 billion oil-equivalent barrels, 2006 proved reserves totaled 22.7 billion oil-equivalent barrels, 2005 proved reserves totaled 22.4 billion oil-equivalent barrels, while 2004 proved reserves totaled 22.2 billion oil-equivalent barrels.
RESOURCES, RESOURCE BASE, AND RECOVERABLE RESOURCES
Resources, resource base, recoverable oil, recoverable hydrocarbons, recoverable resources, and similar terms used in this report are the total remaining estimated quantities of oil and gas that are expected to be ultimately recoverable. In addition to proved reserves, the resource base includes quantities of oil and gas that are not yet classified as proved reserves, but which ExxonMobil believes will likely be moved into the proved reserves category and produced in the future.
PROVED RESERVES REPLACEMENT RATIO
Proved reserves replacement ratio is a performance measure that is calculated using proved oil-equivalent reserves additions divided by oil-equivalent production. Both proved reserves additions and production include amounts applicable to equity companies. The ratio usually reported by ExxonMobil excludes year-end price/cost effects, and includes Canadian oil sands mining operations in both additions and production volumes. See the definition of "liquids and natural gas proved reserves" above and the listing of inclusions and exclusions on pages 68 and 69.
Table of Contents
PROVED RESERVES REPLACEMENT COSTS
Proved reserves replacement costs per oil-equivalent barrel is a performance measure ratio. Proved reserves replacement costs per barrel are costs incurred in property acquisition and exploration, plus costs incurred in development activities, divided by proved oil-equivalent reserves additions, excluding sales. Both the costs incurred and the proved reserves additions include amounts applicable to equity companies as well as Canadian oil sands operations and exclude year-end price/cost effects. See the definition of "liquids and natural gas proved reserves" on the preceding page.
HEAVY OIL
Heavy oil, for the purpose of this report, includes heavy oil, extra heavy oil, and bitumen, as defined by the World Petroleum Congress in 1987 based on API gravity and viscosity at reservoir conditions. Heavy oil has an API gravity between 10 and 22.3 degrees. The API gravity of extra heavy oil and bitumen is less than 10 degrees. Extra heavy oil has a viscosity less than 10 thousand centipoise, whereas the viscosity of bitumen is greater than 10 thousand centipoise. The term "oil sands" is used to indicate heavy oil (generally bitumen) that is recovered in a mining operation.
CASH FLOW FROM OPERATIONS AND ASSET SALES
Cash flow from operations and asset sales is the sum of the net cash provided by operating activities and proceeds from sales of subsidiaries, investments, and property, plant, and equipment from the Summary Statement of Cash Flows. This cash flow is the total sources of cash from both operating the Corporation's assets and from the divesting of assets. The Corporation employs a long-standing and regular disciplined review process to ensure that all assets are contributing to the Corporation's strategic objectives. Assets are divested when they are no longer meeting these objectives or are worth considerably more to others. Because of the regular nature of this activity, we believe it is useful for investors to consider sales proceeds together with cash provided by operating activities when evaluating cash available for investment in the business and financing activities, including shareholder distributions.
DISTRIBUTIONS TO SHAREHOLDERS
The Corporation distributes cash to shareholders in the form of both dividends and share purchases. Shares are purchased both to reduce shares outstanding and to offset shares issued in conjunction with company benefit plans and programs. For purposes of calculating distributions to shareholders, the Corporation only includes the cost of those shares purchased to reduce shares outstanding.
Table of Contents
Index
 
 
Exxon Mobil Corporation has numerous affiliates, many with names that include , , , and . For convenience and simplicity, those terms and terms such as Corporation, company, our, we, and its are sometimes used as abbreviated references to specific affiliates or affiliate groups. Abbreviated references describing global or regional operational organizations, and global or regional business lines are also sometimes used for convenience and simplicity. Similarly, ExxonMobil has business relationships with thousands of customers, suppliers, governments, and others. For convenience and simplicity, words such as venture, joint venture, partnership, co-venturer, and partner are used to indicate business and other relationships involving common activities and interests, and those words may not indicate precise legal relationships.
ExxonMobil
Exxon
Mobil
Esso
The following are trademarks, service marks, or proprietary process names of Exxon Mobil Corporation or one of its affiliates: , , , , , , , , , , , , , , and The following third-party trademarks or service marks, referenced in the text of the report are owned by the entities indicated: (National Association for Stock Car Racing, Inc.), (Formula One Licensing BV), (Indianapolis Motor Speedway Corporation), and (Dr. Ing. H.c.F. Porsche AG), (Aston Martin Lagonda Limited), (Bentley Motors Limited), and (General Motors Corporation), (Daimler AG), (Saab Automobile Ab), (Honda Motor Co., Ltd.) (Automobile Club de l'Ouest, A.C.O.), (Nissan Motor Co., Ltd.), (McLaren Racing Limited), (Vodafone Group Plc), and (Federation Internationale; De L'automobile).
Esso
Exxon
Mobil
RM
3
Stellar
Fluid Coking
Vistamaxx
Controlled Freeze Zone
Mobil SHC Grease WT
Exxcore
Mobil 1
Mobilgear SHC XMP
Enable
Mobil 1 Advanced Fuel Economy
Taking on the World's Toughest Energy Challenges.
NASCAR
Formula 1
IRL
Porsche
Porsche SuperCup
Aston Martin
Bentley
Cadillac
Corvette
Mercedes
Saab
Acura
American Le Mans
Nissan
McLaren
Vodafone
FIA
Table of Contents
 
 
General Information
Corporate Headquarters
ExxonMobil Corporation 5959 Las Colinas Boulevard Irving, TX 75039-2298
Additional copies may be obtained by writing or phoning: Phone: 972-444-1000 Fax: 972-444-1505
ExxonMobil Corporation P.O. Box 140369 Irving, TX 75014-0369
Shareholder Relations
The New York Stock Exchange is the principal exchange on which ExxonMobil Corporation common stock (symbol XOM) is traded.
Market Information
The 2009 Annual Meeting of Shareholders will be held at 9:00 a.m. Central Time on Wednesday, May 27, 2009, at:
Annual Meeting
The Morton H. Meyerson Symphony Center 2301 Flora Street Dallas, Texas 75201
The meeting will be audiocast live on the Internet. Instructions for listening to this audiocast will be available on the Internet at approximately one week prior to the event.
exxonmobil.com
 
 
ExxonMobil publications and important shareholder information are available on the Internet at :
EXXONMOBIL ON THE INTERNET
A quick, easy way to get information about ExxonMobil
exxonmobil.com
PRINTED IN U.S.A.
@ 2008 EXXON MOBIL CORPORATION
WHETSTONE DESIGN LAB
Table of Contents
 
5959 Las Colinas Boulevard
Irving, Texas 75039-2298
 
exxonmobil.com
 


