Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Schlumberger operates three business segments: Oilfield Services, SchlumbergerSema and Other. The following discussion and analysis of results of operations should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements. (Stated in millions) OILFIELD SERVICES 2002 2001 1 % Change Operating Revenue $ 9,347 $ 9,867 (5 )% Pretax Segment Income 2 $ 1,328 $ 1,803 (26 )% SCHLUMBERGERSEMA 3 2002 2001 % Change Operating Revenue $ 2,991 $ 2,258 32 % Pretax Segment Income 2 $ 34 $ (33 ) % OTHER 4 2002 2001 % Change Operating Revenue $ 1,442 $ 2,136 (33 )% Pretax Segment Income 2 $ 20 $ 93 (78 )% 1 Restated, in part, for organizational changes and discontinued operations. 2 Pretax segment income represents income before taxes and minority interest, excluding interest income, interest expense, gain on sale of securities and amortization of intangibles and charges, net (see pages 23 24 of this Report). 3 Sema plc was acquired April 1, 2001. Compared to 2001 and on a pro forma basis (assuming the acquisition occurred on January 1, 2001) SchlumbergerSema revenue for 2002 was up 7%. 4 Principally comprises the Cards, Terminals, Meters North America and NPTest activities and in 2001, the divested Resource Management Services businesses. Oilfield Services 2002 Results Revenue for 2002 was $9.3 billion versus $9.9 billion in 2001 reflecting a 5% decrease due to reduced activity in North America and Latin America, which were 24% and 7% lower respectively. This was partially mitigated by higher activity in Europe/CIS/West Africa, up 14% and the Middle East & Asia, where revenue increased 10%. The M I rig count fell 17%. Pretax operating income decreased 26% primarily from reduced margins in wireline, well services and seismic technologies as activity declined in North America. A sharp fall in revenue at the beginning of 2002 reflected declining activity levels in North America, which remained depressed for the remainder of the year, together with political and economic uncertainty in Latin America. In the second and third quarters, robust activity in Europe/CIS/West Africa, and signs of a possible recovery in Asia, mitigated the effects of low North American drilling levels resulting in increased revenues. However, this trend was short lived as slower activity outside North America due mainly to seasonal influences coupled with budget cuts resulted in lower fourth quarter revenues. In 2002, the Caspian, Russia and Mexico GeoMarkets posted the highest double digit revenue growth of 89%, 62% and 48% respectively versus 2001. From a technology standpoint, the strongest performer was Well Completions & Productivity where acquisitions, testing, advanced completions systems and artificial lift technology market share gains resulted in 8% revenue growth. During the year Schlumberger acquired A. Comeau & Associates a leading provider of electrical engineering products and services for artificially lifted wells. This latest addition, combined with the successful integration of Sensa and Phoenix technologies into the Schlumberger Artificial Lift services portfolio, contributed to higher sales in 2002 particularly in the Eastern Hemisphere. The Drilling & Measurements technology segment also recorded solid revenue growth of 7% fuelled largely by the continued penetration of the PowerDrive475* rotary steerable system into new GeoMarkets. 12 Table of Contents In addition to A. Comeau & Associates Limited, Schlumberger made two further acquisitions during the year to bolster its real time reservoir management suite of services. In January, Schlumberger acquired Norwegian based Inside Reality AS providing new 3D virtual reality systems that create a unique and powerful environment for interactive well planning and real time geosteering analysis. Schlumberger also acquired the software and services business of Technoguide AS a leader in the reservoir modeling domain. The seismic downturn continued throughout 2002 resulting in significantly lower activity levels, a reduction in multiclient license sales and extreme pricing pressures for WesternGeco. As a result, Schlumberger announced operating losses in the third quarter related to contracts in India and Mexico, and in the fourth quarter, workforce reductions of 1,700 people coupled with the closure of its land based seismic operations in the US lower 48 states and Canada. WesternGeco revenue of $1.5 billion decreased 13% and pretax operating income of $71 million fell 68%. North America North America revenue of $2.8 billion decreased 24% versus 2001 while the M I rig count dropped 27%. A steep revenue decline at the outset of the year reflected a continued lackluster drilling environment and unseasonably mild weather conditions. Throughout the remainder of the year activity levels remained depressed resulting in essentially flat revenue for 2002. Other factors contributing to reduced revenues included lower non rig related activity resulting in lower wireline, well services and well completions & productivity revenues, the effects of the tropical storms in the third quarter, a slow pick up in Canadian activity post spring break up and the previously stated closure of US land based and Canadian seismic operations. Pretax operating income of $409 million decreased 52% due to pricing pressures across all services, particularly in well services, well completions & productivity and seismic services. WesternGeco revenue of $548 million and pretax operating income of $131 million fell 36% and 40% respectively. Latin America Latin America revenue of $1.5 billion decreased 7% versus 2001 while the M I rig count decreased 20%. Ongoing political and economic uncertainty in the region continued to affect business conditions, particularly in Venezuela and Argentina. This particularly impacted results in the first half of the year. In sharp contrast, the second half of 2002 saw solid growth partly as a result of higher demand for drilling & measurements and well completions technologies connected to contracts in the Burgos Basin. In addition, the completion of an IPM project that involved the sale of production facilities in Ecuador for $26.5 million in the fourth quarter contributed to end of year higher revenue. Pretax operating income of $175 million declined 13% as a result of decreased activity in Venezuela and Argentina. WesternGeco revenue of $169 million increased 25%; however, pretax operating income of $4.9 million dropped 71% due to the recognition of land seismic contract losses in Mexico in the third quarter. Europe/CIS/West Africa Europe/CIS/West Africa revenue of $2.7 billion increased 14% versus 2001 as the M I rig count decreased 5%. Strong revenue growth was recorded in the first three quarters reflecting increased activity levels and market share gains particularly in the Caspian and Russia GeoMarkets in respect to artificial lift and drilling technologies. The Well Completions & Productivity technology segment recorded the strongest growth of 27% followed by Drilling & Measurements, which grew 24%. 13 Table of Contents This growth was partially mitigated by a steep revenue drop in the fourth quarter due to exceptionally severe winter weather conditions in the North Sea and Russia that affected all services, particularly seismic and fracturing activities. In addition, operator budget cuts in the Nigeria GeoMarket and refocused investment decisions in the UK contributed to lower fourth quarter revenues. Pretax operating income of $322 million decreased 6% due to softening in pricing towards the end of the year and restructuring in the region to reduce support infrastructure to match slowing activity levels. WesternGeco revenue of $267 million decreased 5% and the pretax operating loss of $52 million was 67% higher than 2001. Middle East & Asia Middle East & Asia revenue of $2.4 billion increased 10% outpacing the M I rig count, which grew 6% for the same period. After a decline at the beginning of the year resulting from exceptional artificial lift sales at the end of 2001, the Asian market showed signs of recovery highlighted by strong revenue growth in the second quarter. Over the year, the India and Malaysia/Brunei/Philippines GeoMarkets recorded the strongest growth due to increased activity in these countries. In addition, the Wireline and Well Services technology segments posted the highest growth, up 14% and 10% respectively. This was partly offset, however, by a slowdown in activity in the second half of 2002 due to a number of major projects nearing completion, lower equipment sales and a significant reduction in seismic activity throughout the Area. Pretax operating income of $457 million was flat despite the revenue growth due to marine seismic contract losses incurred in India in the third quarter coupled with softening pricing in well completions and productivity services. WesternGeco revenue of $490 million increased 15%; however, pretax operating income of $3.2 million declined 93% due to the recognition of marine seismic contract losses in India. 2001 Results Record Oilfield Services operating revenue of $9.9 billion increased 36% over 2000 in sharp contrast with the worldwide M I rig count, which grew only 15%. Increased non rig related activity, partly attributable to the WesternGeco Joint Venture, and higher pricing levels contributed to the growth. Operating revenue started to grow in the first quarter, due to continued high activity in North America and increased demand internationally. The latter continued throughout 2001 and was reflected in the Europe/CIS/West Africa and Middle East & Asia Area results. However, softening North American drilling activity in the third quarter, as a result of slower economic growth and declining natural gas drilling activity, offset international growth. The WesternGeco Joint Venture in its first full financial reporting year was the largest contributor to double digit growth in all Areas with the Malaysia/Brunei/Philippines, Alaska, Gulf Coast and West & South Africa GeoMarkets recording the strongest results versus 2000. Market share gains, improved pricing levels and the introduction of new technology contributed to strong growth in the Drilling & Measurements technology business. In addition, improved Reda submersible pump sales and the continued expansion of the PowerSTIM* well production optimization solution contributed to significant growth in the Well Completions & Productivity technology segment. 2001 was a significant year as Oilfield Services acquired several key technologies as part of its continuing focus to build a complete suite of real time reservoir optimization services. In April 2001, Schlumberger acquired Baker Jardine, a leading provider of software tools, IT consulting and integrated solutions that help operators increase oil and gas production. Secondly, a unique Distributing Temperature Sensing technique was added to the Schlumberger real time offering through the acquisition of Sensa. The 14 Table of Contents recognized leader in fiber optic sensing technologies, Sensa provides operators with a continuous measurement for the monitoring of producing wells. Thirdly, Schlumberger acquired Phoenix, a leading provider of technologies and techniques for optimizing production from artificially lifted wells, in October 2001. North America North American operating revenue increased 49% versus 2000 outpacing the M I rig count, which grew 17%. The strong operating revenue growth that continued in the first quarter of 2001 plateaued in the middle of the year. This was due to slower economic conditions and declining natural gas prices, which resulted in reduced activity towards the end of the year. The Alaska and Gulf Coast GeoMarkets recorded the strongest revenue growth due to increased demand for drilling and measurements and well services, wireline technologies and higher seismic activity. Pretax operating income increased 124% particularly due to strong demand for well services technologies and the significant impact of the WesternGeco Joint Venture. Latin America Operating revenue increased 32% exceeding the M I rig count growth of 13%. Increased activity across all services contributed to double digit growth in the GeoMarkets. Growth was led by the Peru/Colombia/Ecuador and Latin America South GeoMarkets as a result of increased drilling and measurements and well services. Further, higher well completions services during the year, and an increase in land seismic activity in Bolivia during the fourth quarter contributed to growth in these GeoMarkets. Pretax operating income increased 133% principally as a result of increases in IPM, Wireline and the impact of the WesternGeco Joint Venture. Europe/CIS/West Africa Operating revenue increased 41% in the Europe/CIS/West Africa Area, more than double the M I rig count growth, which rose 15%. Overall moderate growth was recorded for the year led by high demand for well completions services in Nigeria and strong growth in drilling and measurements and wireline services in the Russia GeoMarket. In particular, strong growth was seen in the West and South Africa GeoMarket partly due to an Early Production Facility Project for IPM during the year. Pretax operating income increased 59% due mainly to the Well Completions & Productivity segment, which recorded strong growth across most GeoMarkets. Middle East & Asia A 26% increase in operating revenue surpassed the M I rig count four fold in 2001. Almost all GeoMarkets in the region recorded strong double digit growth led by seismic, drilling and measurements and well services activities in the Malaysia, Brunei and Philippines GeoMarket, and as a result of new contract wins in the Gulf GeoMarket. Moderate sequential growth was recorded throughout the year reflecting the pick up in international activity. Pretax operating income increased 50% comprised mostly of an increase in Drilling & Measurements and in the Well Completions & Productivity technology segments. 2000 Results Moderate growth was recorded during the first half of the year with sharp sequential growth in the second half of the year led by increased activity in North America and higher demand for drilling & measurements technologies, up 29%, and well services up 25%. The seismic down cycle, which started at the beginning of 1999, continued through the first half of the year. The second half of 2000 saw significant improvement leading to higher Schlumberger activity due to the introduction of new generation seismic Q* Marine technology and increased multiclient data sales. 15 Table of Contents Oilfield Services operating revenue increased 20% compared with 1999 as the worldwide M I rig count grew 30%. North America North America operating revenue increased 46% versus 1999, in line with the M I rig count, which grew 47%. Increased activity, which started in the third quarter of 1999, continued into the beginning of 2000 with a significant increase in drilling activity due to the continued shift to natural gas exploration and development. Well Services posted the strongest revenue growth, up 56% followed by Drilling & Measurements, up 46% and Wireline, which increased 40%. Pretax operating income increased 233%. Latin America Latin America operating revenue increased 23% for the year, consistent with a 23% increase in the M I rig count. There was strong growth in the second half of 2000 across most technology segments. Pretax operating segment income increased 390% due to improved profitability led by Drilling & Measurements and Well Services. Europe/CIS/West Africa Operating revenue increased 7% in Europe/CIS/West Africa during 2000, consistent with a 10% increase in the M I rig count. Results in the first quarter were lower year over year due to continued flat activity and a sharp decline in seismic activity in this region for the same period. The increase in activity in the second half of the year was moderate compared with the other Areas. Pretax operating income increased 86% as a result of increased pricing for wireline and drilling & measurements technologies. Middle East & Asia Operating revenue in Middle East & Asia increased 5%, in line with a 5% increase in the M I rig count. Lower first quarter results resulted from the continued industry down cycle, and the growth was moderate for the remainder of the year due to a slow increase in activity. Stronger sequential growth in the second half of the year resulted from increased activity in the Middle East and improved demand particularly for drilling & measurements and testing technologies. Pretax operating income increased 3%. SchlumbergerSema 2002 Results SchlumbergerSema operating revenue increased 32% compared with 2001 mainly due to the acquisition of Sema plc whose results were consolidated with effect from April 1, 2001. On a proforma basis, assuming the acquisition occurred on January 1, 2001, operating revenue in 2002 was up 7% compared to 2001. The pretax segment income of $34 million compared to a loss of $33 million in 2001, reflecting the cost reductions initiatives implemented since the integration of Sema plc into Schlumberger. The 2002 pretax segment income excludes the charges discussed on pages 23 24 of this Report. In December an updated strategy for SchlumbergerSema was announced. The SchlumbergerSema focus is now on IT consulting and systems integration together with network and infrastructure solutions, primarily in global energy while continuing to develop specific regional market sectors in areas where it has a successful competitive position based on scale and domain knowledge. This strategy is designed to create industry leadership in the energy market by combining the systems integration skills of Sema with the global reach and energy sector knowledge of Schlumberger. 16 Table of Contents SchlumbergerSema won the top prize at the prestigious Management Consultancies Association (MCA) Best Management Practice Awards in London for its work on the 2002 Salt Lake City Olympic Winter Games. At the 2002 Winter Olympic Games, SchlumbergerSema led a consortium of 15 technology partners in a three year long project to deliver the IT infrastructure needed to run the Games. Dr Jacques Rogge, president of the International Olympic Committee commented The Information Technology operations of any Olympic Games play a vital role in the overall success of the Games. Schlumberger is also the official Worldwide Information Technology Partner for the Olympic Games in 2004, 2006 and 2008. North & South America Operating revenue increased 4% over 2001 primarily due to increased activity from the Network Infrastructure Solutions (NIS) business as a result of several large IT outsourcing projects. These include the Conoco and Dallas County IT projects and the DeXa.Net global connectivity solution to provide communications for Houston based Atwood Oceanics offshore and land facilities around the world. Partially offsetting the increase in activity from NIS, revenue declined in the telecom and utility industries due primarily to the weak IT services spending environment as customers faced economic challenges and continued to revise budgets downwards and delay decisions on contract awards. However, major contracts have been awarded in the energy segment such as the Online Energy Management System for AES Infoenergy in Brazil and the systems integration and data management services contracts with Nebraska Public Power District (NPPD) of Columbus, Nebraska. Despite the marginal increase in revenue, pretax operating loss of $43 million represented an improvement of 18% over 2001, mainly attributable to the cost reduction programs implemented throughout the area. Europe/Middle East/Africa Operating revenue increased 35% mainly due to the inclusion of a full years revenue from the acquisition of Sema plc compared to nine months in 2001. On a comparable basis the revenue increased by 4% despite a declining IT services market in Europe for the first time since 1993. The main contributor to the growth was the public sector mainly in the UK where SchlumbergerSema won large outsourcing contracts with the Association of Train Operating Companies, the Department of Work and Pension and the Vehicle Inspectorate. Also contributing to the improvements were an energy related project for Brussels based Electrabel S.A., a leading energy producer, distributor and supplier in Belgium, with power plants in eight European countries serving about 4.5 million customers daily and a health and welfare services project to Consignias 220,000 employees in the UK. Pretax operating income increased 33% due mainly to the cost cutting program implemented throughout the year. Asia Operating revenue increased 38%. On a comparable basis, operating revenue would have been flat. The decreased activity in telecommunications, mainly in China and Taiwan, was offset by the increase in the finance segment on new outsourcing contracts in the insurance sector in Japan for Mass Mutual and delivery of payment systems in China. Pretax operating income decreased 61% mainly attributable to pricing pressure and economic declines in the telecommunications IT services industry. Telecom Products Operating revenue increased 22% over 2001 principally due to the inclusion of Sema plc. On a comparable basis the activity was flat despite the sharp decline in the telecommunications industry. During the year the focus was on streamlining the product portfolio and reducing the number of R&D centers and reducing the workforce to the level of activity. The pretax operating loss of $24 million was an improvement over the loss of $34 million in 2001 mainly due to the significant workforce reduction aimed at aligning R&D with the product development cycles. 17 Table of Contents 2001 Results On April 6, 2001, Schlumberger completed the acquisition of Sema plc for $5.15 billion. Sema plc is a leading IT and technical services company with a strong European presence. The acquisition was financed through existing cash resources of Schlumberger and from borrowings under a $3 billion floating rate credit facility. As a result of the acquisition, the SchlumbergerSema business segment was created combining Sema plc and certain businesses of Schlumberger Test & Transactions and Resource Management Services, including CellNet and Convergent. Operating revenue increased $2.0 billion over 2000 due to the acquisition of Sema plc. Excluding the acquisition of Sema plc the operating revenue increase would have been $383 million on a pro forma basis. NIS experienced a 91% operating revenue growth for 2001 versus 2000 mostly due to E&P contracts demonstrating that this industry is recognizing the importance of IT connectivity and security. North & South America Operating revenue increased 233% versus 2000 essentially due to the inclusion of the full years activity for the Convergent Group, acquired in November 2000 and CellNet Data Systems, acquired in June 2000. Additionally the increased utilities activity was a result of strong demand for Real Time Energy Management Systems (RTEMS) services and further deployment of related networks, the extension of key existing utility business contracts in North America for utility data management services and the award of a significant contract for consulting and personal energy management advanced data services. Contributing to the growth was the award of NIS projects by University of Texas Medical Board, Shell and Ecopetrol. Pretax operating loss was 22% lower than the previous year. Europe/Middle East/Africa Operating revenue increased significantly due to the inclusion of Sema plc. Excluding Sema plc the year on year pro forma operating revenue increase would have been $83 million due principally to the full inclusion of Data Marine Systems Limited acquired in October 2000 and to the award of multi million dollar contracts in France for Banque de France and in the UK for Metropolitan Police. Pretax operating income increased significantly due to the inclusion of Sema plc. Asia Operating revenue increased almost eight fold largely due to the integration of Sema plc. Excluding Sema plc the year on year growth would have been $24 million entirely due to stronger NIS activity and to sustained demand for business continuity and outsourcing services throughout the area exemplified by the desktop outsourcing project for Caltex in Sumatra, Indonesia. Pretax operating income increased significantly due to the inclusion of Sema plc. Telecom Products There was no activity prior to 2001. The activity was mainly led by strong bookings in mobile messaging systems, with the first SemaPortal* short message server implementation and customer care and billing products system integration for mobile operators, such as the project awarded by Telecom Italia Mobile (TIM) which covers their operations in Europe and Brazil. 2000 Results During the year, SchlumbergerSema took strategic steps in the global energy segment to build its solutions offerings through the acquisition in June 2000 of CellNet Data Systems, the leading provider of telemetry technology for the development and deployment of large scale automatic meter reading (AMR) systems and the Convergent Group, a leading builder of digital enterprises focusing on the utility sector, in November 2000. 18 Table of Contents Operating revenue increased 250% year on year reflecting the above two acquisitions and the acquisition of the remaining 50% stake in Omnes, a joint venture previously equally owned by Schlumberger and Cable & Wireless. North & South America Operating revenue increased more than four fold over 1999 due to market expansion, including the acquisition of CellNet Data Systems and the Convergent Group, the receipt of several major orders in Real Time Energy Management Systems (RTEMS) and the University of Texas Medical Board NIS contract. The pretax operating loss reflected the newly acquired CellNet and Convergent activities. Europe/Middle East/Africa Operating revenue increased 158% and pretax operating income increased 37% due to the 50% consolidation of Omnes and the full consolidation of Data Marine Systems. Asia Operating revenue increased 108% and pretax operating income increased 8 fold entirely due to the consolidation of 100% of Omnes into Schlumberger. Telecom Products There was no activity in Telecom Products during the year 2000. Other Included in this segment are NPTest, consisting of the core product lines of Schlumberger Semiconductor Solutions, smart cards, point of sale terminals, eCity terminals, payphones, payments systems, electricity meters and the divested businesses of the former Resource Management Services segment. On May 21, 2002 NPTest filed a registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission for a proposed initial public offering of its shares of common stock which is not yet effective. 2002 Results Operating revenue decreased 32% reflecting the divestiture of the Resource Management Services North American water metering activities and the non North American electricity and water meter and worldwide gas meter businesses in November 2001. NPTest activity increased due to a partial recovery in test equipment sales in North America and Asia partially offset by decreases in diagnostic equipment sales and equipment support services. Volume Product activity remained flat despite the continuing slump in the telecommunications industry and the continued pricing pressure. This was partially offset by higher activity in banking and IT cards coupled with a favorable euro dollar exchange rate. Pretax operating income decreased 78% mainly due to the divestiture of Resource Management Services and eroded profitability in the smart cards business. 2001 Results Operating revenue decreased 13% reflecting mainly the divestiture of the Resource Management Services businesses, which were sold in November 2001 and the decline in semiconductor activity, which followed the down cycle in the worldwide semiconductor industry. 19 Table of Contents Volume Products operating revenue grew by 13% despite a slowdown in the telecommunications industry. Smart cards operating revenue increased 9% compared with 2000. NPTest revenue decreased approximately 47% from the prior year due to the sharp decline in the industry, with all product lines affected. Pretax operating income decreased 40% due mainly to pricing pressure in both the semiconductor and the smart cards industries. 2000 Results Operating revenue was flat. Increased activity in the smart cards business, driven by outstanding growth of the mobile communications market and in NPTest (up 5%) was offset by the decline in Resource Management Services (down 16%) where pressure on utility prices resulted in a continued downturn for the utility industry. Pretax operating income grew 49% year on year mainly attributable to the improved profitability in smart cards. 20 Table of Contents Income Continuing Operations (Stated in millions except per share amounts) Income (loss) from Continuing Operations Earnings (loss) per share Basic Diluted Adjusted5 20021 $ (2,418 ) $ (4.18 ) $ (4.18 ) $ (4.18 ) 20012,4 $ 491 $ 0.85 $ 0.85 $ 1.35 20003,4 $ 721 $ 1.26 $ 1.25 $ 1.42 1 Includes a net, after tax and minority interest charge of $3,110 million ($5.38 per share diluted). For details, see Charges Continuing Operations on page 44. 2 Includes a net, after tax and minority interest charge of $297 million ($0.51 per share diluted). For details, see Charges Continuing Operations on page 44. 3 Includes a net, after tax and minority interest charge of $3 million ($0.00 per share diluted). For details, see Charges Continuing Operations on page 44. 4 Restated for discontinued operations. 5 Excludes amortization of goodwill. In 2002, Oilfield Services segment net income decreased $267 million, or 21%, to $987 million as revenue declined 5% compared to the worldwide M I rig count reduction of 17%. North America registered the most significant decline as revenue decreased 24% on a M I rig count reduction of 27%. SchlumbergerSema segment net income of $21 million improved from a loss of $22 million in 2001, reflecting the revenue increase of 32% (7% on a proforma basis assuming the Sema plc acquisition took place on January 1, 2001) and the effect of the previously announced cost reduction program. In the Other segment, net income declined to $14 million, from $85 million in 2001 which included the divested Resource Management Services businesses. In 2001, Oilfield Services segment net income increased $498 million, or 66%, to $1,254 million reflecting the 36% growth in revenue, which outpaced the 15% increase in the worldwide M I rig count. Higher pricing levels and increased non rig related activity were the major factors attributable to the record Oilfield Services revenues. SchlumbergerSema segment net loss of $22 million improved $19 million reflecting the incremental income from the newly acquired Sema plc. In the Other segment, net income of $85 million declined $34 million from the prior year with declines in the semiconductor related and Cards activities. In 2000, Oilfield Services segment net income increased $328 million, or 76%, to $756 million. Increases in E&P expenditures and in oil and gas prices, resulting from increased oil demand and the lowest level of excess oil production capacity in decades, were the underlying factors of the strong increases in most areas, and notably in North America. Average worldwide rig count increased 30% compared to 1999. SchlumbergerSema segment net loss of $41 million was down $43 million due to losses in the newly acquired CellNet and Convergent businesses in North America. In the Other segment, net income of $119 million increased $32 million from the prior year mainly due to stronger results from the Cards activity where revenue was up 26%. Currency Risks Refer to page 39, Translation of Non US Currencies in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, for a description of the Schlumberger policy on currency hedging. There are no material unhedged assets, liabilities or commitments which are denominated in other than a business functional currency. Schlumberger businesses operate principally in US dollars, the euro and most other European currencies and most South American currencies. While changes in exchange rates affect revenue, especially in the SchlumbergerSema segment, they also affect costs. Generally speaking, Schlumberger is currency neutral. For example, a 5% change in average 21 Table of Contents exchange rates of OECD currencies would have had no material effect on consolidated revenue and net income. In general, when the US dollar weakens against other currencies, consolidated revenue increases, usually with no material effect on net income. This is principally because the fall through incremental margin in the SchlumbergerSema segment offsets the higher Oilfield Services segment non US dollar denominated expenses. Research & Engineering Expenditures by business segment were as follows: (Stated in millions) 2002 2001 2000 Oilfield Services $ 438 $ 425 $ 365 SchlumbergerSema 84 86 18 Other 128 164 146 In process R&D charge1 25 $ 650 $ 700 $ 529 1 Relating to the Bull CP8 acquisition. Interest Expense Interest expense decreased $17 million, to $368 million mainly due to a decrease in average borrowing rates from 5.8% to 4.9%. The increase in 2001 of $109 million, to $385 million, was principally due to the significantly higher debt balances incurred, relating to the acquisition of Sema plc, which were only partially offset by a reduction in average borrowing rate from 6.9% to 5.8%. The increase in 2000 of $83 million, to $276 million, was mainly due to an increase in average borrowing rates from 5.8% to 6.9%. Hanover Compressor Transaction In August 2001, Schlumberger sold its Oilfield Services worldwide gas compression activity to Hanover Compressor Company. The proceeds included common stock of Hanover Compressor, with a value at closing of $173 million, which is restricted from marketability until August 30, 2004 and a $150 million long term subordinated note maturing December 15, 2005. The market value of Schlumbergers investment in Hanover Compressor common stock was $80 million as of December 31, 2002. Following the decline in the market value of the stock below carrying value during the second quarter of 2002, Schlumberger has performed, and continues to perform, a periodic assessment in accordance with its policy to determine whether an other than temporary decline in fair value has occurred. Schlumberger evaluated the recoverability of its investment by reviewing recent information related to the industry and the operating results and financial position of Hanover Compressor and by considering Schlumbergers requirement, ability and intent to hold the investment on a long term basis. Schlumberger concluded that evidence existed at December 31, 2002 to support the recoverability of its carrying value, that there were no events or changes in circumstances specifically relating to the business prospects of Hanover Compressor, that the underlying business fundamentals are good with natural gas supplies reduced and higher natural gas prices in North America. In addition, the recently announced Hanover cutbacks in workforce and capital expenditures coupled with no immediate debt maturities should provide adequate capital resources in the near term. Accordingly, Schlumberger concluded that the decline in market value of its investment ($93 million) in Hanover Compressor as of December 31, 2002 was temporary in nature and has not reduced the cost basis of that investment. If the decline in value persists or should Schlumbergers assessment change, Schlumberger would take a charge to its earnings for the amount that is deemed unrecoverable. The $150 million long term subordinated note has a mandatory prepayment upon the issuance, sale or other disposition by Hanover Compressor of any shares of capital stock or other equity interests pursuant to a 22 Table of Contents public offering or a private placement otherwise prepayment is discretionary. As of December 31, 2002, Schlumberger considers the carrying value of the note to be fully collectible. As part of the sale agreement, Schlumberger agreed that the financing of the PIGAP II joint venture in Venezuela would be non recourse to the buyer and would be executed prior to December 31, 2002. Accordingly, Schlumberger was obligated, with respect to the financing, to guarantee 30% (approximately $80 million) until the project was completed in 2002 and, if as of December 31, 2002, refinancing had not become non recourse to the buyer or the project had not achieved substantial completion, Hanover Compressor had an option to put its interest in the joint venture back to Schlumberger. As an outcome of the turmoil in Venezuela, although the project reached substantial completion, the non recourse financing for the project was not achieved by December 31, 2002. On January 30, 2003, Hanover Compressor gave notice of its intention to exercise its right to put its ownership interest in the joint venture back to Schlumberger. The put is subject to certain consents and other conditions. Schlumbergers obligation to provide a guarantee with respect to the financing was eliminated. As Schlumberger originally deferred the gain on the sale of the joint venture in 2001, there is no impact on Schlumberger results of operations due to the Hanover Compressor exercise of its option. Charges Continuing Operations Schlumberger recorded the following after tax and minority interest charges/credits for continuing operations in 2002, 2001 and 2000: On December 10, 2002, Schlumberger announced that the Board of Directors had approved an updated strategy for its SchlumbergerSema business segment. The new strategic plan outlook, current business values and the reorganization of SchlumbergerSema constitute significant events that required an impairment analysis to be performed in accordance with FAS 142. SchlumbergerSema was valued on a stand alone basis; each reporting unit within SchlumbergerSema was valued using a discounted cash flow analysis based on a long term forecast prepared by SchlumbergerSema management with the assistance of a third party valuation expert. The implied multiples yielded by the discounted cash flow analysis were compared to observed trading multiples of comparable companies and recent transactions in the IT services industry to assess the fair value of the reporting units. The fair value was below the book value. As a result, goodwill was written down to its estimated fair value based on Schlumbergers valuation. The impairment of goodwill mainly reflects the current difficulties of the telecommunications industry and the severely depressed market values of the IT companies serving SchlumbergerSemas sector. Certain intangible assets were also identified and written down as part of this process. Schlumberger recorded severance, facility and other costs in an effort to reduce costs at SchlumbergerSema and WesternGeco. These costs related to expenses that offer no future benefit to the ongoing operations of these businesses. During the fourth quarter, Schlumberger also recorded an impairment charge, to reflect a change in the business projections of the WesternGeco business, related to capitalized multiclient seismic library costs, a deferred tax valuation allowance and other costs. The total of the above charges was $3,168 million and consisted of (1) a goodwill impairment charge of $2,638 million; (2) an intangible assets impairment charge of $132 million; (3) SchlumbergerSema severance and other charges of $77 million in response to current business conditions; (4) WesternGeco severance and other charges of $72 million in response to current business conditions; (5) a WesternGeco multiclient library impairment charge of $129 million following a valuation of the library; (6) environmental related charges of $26 million; (7) a deferred tax valuation allowance charge of $94 million. In December 2002, a credit of $87 million reflecting the gain on the sale of two drilling rigs. In March 2002, a charge of $29 million related to the financial/economic crisis in Argentina. In March 2001, a charge of $25 million for in process R&D related to the Bull CP8 acquisition. 23 Table of Contents In June 2001, a charge of $280 million for the estimated impairment charge from the disposition of certain Resource Management Services businesses. In September 2001, a net credit of $3 million representing the gain on the sale of the worldwide gas compression business, partially offset by an impairment charge relating to the expected disposition of certain activities. In December 2001, a net credit of $5 million, including an after tax gain on the sale of the former Resource Management Services North American Water division ($117 million). This gain was partially offset by certain charges: (1) a provision of $37 million for employee termination costs, principally in Europe and the US, related to Oilfield Services and SchlumbergerSema in response to the prevailing business conditions; (2) tax reorganization costs of $29 million; (3) a further $20 million charge related to the second quarter estimated loss on the divestiture of certain Resource Management Services businesses following the actual closing in the fourth quarter; (4) asset write down of $23 million for technological impairment related to certain Land seismic assets in the newly formed WesternGeco Joint Venture. In December 2000, $25 million charge primarily relating to the write down of certain inventory and severance costs in the semiconductor business resulting from reduced activity levels in the semiconductor test market, $39 million related to the creation of the WesternGeco joint venture (including asset impairment and severance costs for Schlumbergers existing Geco Prakla business), and a credit of $61 million from the gain on sale of two Gas Services businesses in Europe. An analysis of the December 2002 pretax severance and facility charges is as follows: (Stated in millions) Severance Facilities Amount Headcount Amount Charges $ 94.5 3,492 $ 42.8 Paid in December 2002 32.9 1,643 6.6 Balance, December 31, 2002 $ 61.6 1,849 $ 36.2 The remaining severance costs are expected to be paid before September 30, 2003. The December 2001 charge included severance costs of $41 million (775 people) which have been paid. The December 2000 charges included severance costs of $9 million (380 people) which have been paid. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Schlumbergers discussion and analysis of its financial condition and results of operations are based upon Schlumbergers consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires Schlumberger to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an on going basis, Schlumberger evaluates its estimates, including those related to bad debts, valuation of inventories and investments, recoverability of long lived assets, income tax provision and deferred taxes, profit assumptions on long term percentage of completion contracts, contingencies and litigation and actuarial assumptions for employee benefit plans. Schlumberger bases its estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. 24 Table of Contents Schlumberger believes the critical accounting policies described below affect its more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of its consolidated financial statements. Schlumberger recognizes revenue and profit as work progresses on long term, fixed price contracts using the percentage of completion method, which relies on estimates of total expected contract revenue and costs. Schlumberger follows this method since reasonably dependable estimates of the revenue and costs applicable to various stages of a contract can be made. Recognized revenue and profit are subject to revisions as the contract progresses to completion. Revisions in profit estimates are charged or credited to income in the period in which the facts that give rise to the revision become known as a change in estimate. Losses on long term contracts are provided for when such losses are known and reasonably estimated. Schlumberger recognizes revenue from the sale of software licenses when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, the product has been delivered, the fee is fixed and determinable and collection of the resulting receivable is reasonably assured. Whether the fee is fixed and determinable is assessed based on the payment terms associated with the transaction. Collection is assessed based on a number of factors, including past transaction history with the customer and the credit worthiness of the customer. Revenues from contracts with multiple element arrangements, such as those including installation and integration services, are recognized as each element is earned based on the relative fair value of each element and when there are no undelivered elements that are essential to the functionality of the delivered elements. For sales, either a binding purchase order, signed license agreement or a written contract is used as evidence of an arrangement. Revenue from maintenance services is recognized ratably over the contract term. The training and consulting services (time and materials) are billed based on hourly rates, and revenue is generally recognized as these services are performed. Revenue from outsourcing services is generally recognized as services are performed. The Oilfield Services segment capitalizes the cost associated with obtaining multiclient seismic data. Such costs are charged to Cost of Goods Sold and Services based on a percentage of estimated total revenue that Schlumberger estimates that it will receive from the sales of such data. The carrying value of individual surveys is reviewed at least annually and adjustments to the value are made based upon the revised estimated revenues for the surveys. Schlumberger maintains allowances for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of its customers to make required payments. If the financial condition of Schlumbergers customers were to deteriorate, resulting in an impairment of their ability to make payments, additional allowances may be required. Schlumberger writes down its inventory for estimated obsolescence or unmarketable inventory equal to the difference between the cost of inventory and the estimated market value based upon assumptions about future demand and market conditions. If actual market conditions are less favorable than those projected by management, additional inventory writedowns may be required. Schlumberger assesses the impairment of identifiable intangibles, long lived assets and related goodwill at least annually, or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Factors considered important, which could trigger an impairment review, include the following: significant underperformance relative to expected historical or projected future operating results; significant changes in the manner of our use of the acquired assets or the strategy for our overall business; significant negative industry or economic trends; significant decline in Schlumbergers stock price for a sustained period; and our market capitalization relative to net book value. 25 Table of Contents When Schlumberger determines that the carrying value of intangibles, long lived assets and related goodwill may not be recoverable based upon the existence of one or more of the above indicators of impairment, any impairment is measured based on projected net cash flows expected to result from that asset, including eventual disposition. Schlumberger has net deferred tax assets of $583 million at December 31, 2002. Schlumberger considers future taxable income and tax planning strategies in assessing the need for valuation allowances. In December 2002, in connection with the SchlumbergerSema strategic review Schlumberger determined that it would not be able to realize a part of its October 1, 2002 net deferred asset in the future relating to a certain European net operating loss. A valuation allowance of $94 million was charged to income in the fourth quarter. The cumulative valuation allowance relating to this European net operating loss is approximately $147 million at December 31, 2002. With regard to pension and postretirement benefits, Schlumberger evaluates the appropriateness of assumptions used by an independent actuary, in particular assumptions as to discount rate, return on plan assets and medical cost trend rates. The assumptions are revised at least annually as circumstances require. 26 Table of Contents Liquidity A measure of financial position is liquidity, which Schlumberger defines as cash plus short term and fixed income investments, less debt. Negative liquidity indicates net debt. The following table summarizes the change in consolidated liquidity for each of the past three years: (Stated in millions) 2002 20011 20001 (Loss)/income from continuing operations $ (2,418 ) $ 491 $ 721 (Gain)/loss on sale of businesses (87 ) 110 (61 ) Net charges 3,197 162 64 Depreciation & amortization2 1,545 1,896 1,271 Decrease (increase) in working capital requirements 167 (839 ) (104 ) Proceeds from business divestitures 354 896 155 Fixed asset additions2 (1,711 ) (2,469 ) (1,546 ) Dividends paid (433 ) (430 ) (426 ) Proceeds from employee stock plans 175 122 229 Acquisition of Sema plc (132 ) (4,853 ) Other business acquisitions (44 ) (453 ) (1,076 ) Acquisition related payments (70 ) Impact of change in exchange rates (507 ) (6 ) 40 Other (51 ) (117 ) (90 ) Net decrease in liquidity from continuing operations (15 ) (5,490 ) (823 ) Discontinued operations 31 31 14 Net (increase) decrease in net debt/liquidity 16 (5,459 ) (809 ) Liquidity beginning of period (5,037 ) 422 1,231 Liquidity end of period $ (5,021 ) $ (5,037 ) $ 422 1 Reclassified, in part, for comparative purposes. 2 Including multiclient seismic data costs. At December 31, 2002, Schlumbergers liquidity was negative (debt exceeded cash plus investments). At December 31, 2002, Schlumberger had cash/short term investments of $1.7 billion and remaining capacity in debt facilities of $3.7 billion which are sufficient to meet future business requirements. Based on forecast 2003 net income, depreciation/amortization estimates, and other liquidity components, Schlumberger expects to improve liquidity with an objective of reducing the net debt to under $4 billion by year end 2003. This will largely be dependent upon the business segments operating results and the successful completion of certain business divestitures. 27 Table of Contents Acquisition of Sema plc On February 12, 2001, Schlumberger announced that it had reached an agreement with the board of directors of Sema plc on the terms of a recommended offer for the entire issued and to be issued share capital of Sema plc. On March 8, 2001, a wholly owned subsidiary of Schlumberger acquired, through market purchases, approximately 20% of the issued share capital of Sema at a cost of $1 billion. On April 6, 2001, the offer for the shares of Sema plc was declared unconditional in all respects. The aggregate consideration for the acquisition of 100% of the issued Sema shares was $5.15 billion (including expenses of the transaction) which was financed from existing cash resources and borrowings under a $3 billion credit facility. On October 3, 2001, wholly owned subsidiaries of Schlumberger issued $1.9 billion European bonds (Euro 1.4 billion and &pound;425 million). The average interest rate of these bonds is 5.9% with maturity from 2008 through 2032. The proceeds from the issues were used to repay short term bank loans originally taken out by those subsidiaries to finance the acquisition of Sema plc. The acquisition was accounted for using the purchase method of accounting and the goodwill and identifiable intangibles aggregated $5.19 billion which were being amortized on a straight line basis in 2001. Effective January 1, 2002, with the adoption of SFAS 142 (see New Accounting Standards), amortization of goodwill and workforce ceased. Identifiable intangibles continue to be amortized on a straight line basis over a life of 10 years. The aggregate value of goodwill and identifiable intangibles comprised the following: (Stated in billions) Cost (including expenses) $ 5.15 Purchase accounting adjustments 0.34 Net tangible assets acquired (0.30 ) $ 5.19 Purchase accounting adjustments consisted primarily of severance costs ($84 million 1781 people), facility reductions ($33 million), pension plan adjustments ($136 million) and tax restructuring costs ($50 million). At December 31, 2001, $26 million (593 people) of the severance costs had been paid. All remaining severance was paid in 2002. For financial reporting purposes, Schlumberger included the results of operations of Sema in its consolidated accounts commencing April 1, 2001. If Sema had been included in the consolidated financial statements of Schlumberger from January 1, consolidated revenue for the twelve months ended December 31, 2001 would have increased by $538 million to $14.3 billion and consolidated net income would have decreased by approximately $140 million, to $382 million, related primarily to increased interest expense, amortization of intangibles and lower interest income. On a proforma basis, Schlumberger 2000 operating revenue and net income would have been $12 billion and $300 million, respectively. Sema is an IT services company (with approximately 22,000 employees at the date of acquisition) that provides its customers with design, implementation, operations and management of information systems and IT related consulting services. Among the industry sectors which Sema serves, Sema has increasingly focused on the telecommunications and finance sectors, and provides a range of its own software products specifically designed for these sectors in addition to its IT services. Semas customers include a wide variety of businesses and governmental departments around the world. Semas services and product offerings include systems integration and consulting; software products for the telecommunications, energy, transport and finance sectors; and outsourcing. 28 Table of Contents Business Divestitures During 2002, Schlumberger divested the following businesses: In December, the Reed Hycalog drillbits business. The proceeds included $259 million in cash and 9.7 million shares of Grant Prideco common stock with a value of $103 million. The after tax gain was $66 million. The divestiture of Reed Hycalog has been accounted for in Discontinued Operations. During 2001, Schlumberger divested the following businesses: In August, the Oilfield Services worldwide gas compression activity primarily consisting of the Production Operators Corp. subsidiary. The proceeds included $274 million in cash, a $150 million long term subordinated note and newly issued Hanover Compressor Company shares with a value of $173 million. The shares have a three year marketability restriction. The after tax gain was $52 million. In November, the Resource Management Services North American water metering activities. Cash proceeds were $304 million and the after tax gain was $117 million. In November, the Resource Management Services non North American electricity and water meter, and worldwide gas meter businesses. The net cash proceeds were $256 million and the after tax loss was $300 million, of which $280 million had been recorded as an impairment charge in June (See Charges Continuing Operations). In November, the Yield Enhancement Systems division of Semiconductor Solutions. Cash proceeds were $62 million and the after tax gain was $12 million. Summary of Major Contractual Commitments (Stated in millions) Payment Period Contractual Commitments Total Less than 1 year 2 3 years 4 5 years After 5 years Long Term Debt $ 6,481 $ 453 $ 2,049 $ 1,461 $ 2,518 Operating Leases $ 1,278 $ 219 $ 317 $ 226 $ 516 Letters of credit/guarantees outstanding aggregated $771 million at December 31, 2002. In general, the remaining amount of letters of credit/guarantees relate to business performance bonds, custom/excise tax commitments, facility lease/rental obligations, etc. All such were entered into in the ordinary course of business and are customary practices in the various countries where Schlumberger operates. 29 Table of Contents Common Stock, Market Prices and Dividends Declared per Share Quarterly high and low prices for Schlumberger common stock as reported by the New York Stock Exchange (composite transactions), together with dividends declared per share in each quarter of 2002 and 2001, were: Price Range Dividends Declared High Low 2002 QUARTERS First $ 62.430 $ 49.150 $ 0.1875 Second 59.890 46.300 0.1875 Third 47.400 35.870 0.1875 Fourth 46.850 33.400 0.1875 2001 QUARTERS First $ 82.810 $ 57.300 $ 0.1875 Second 69.250 51.150 0.1875 Third 56.900 40.840 0.1875 Fourth 56.750 42.050 0.1875 The number of holders of record of Schlumberger common stock at December 31, 2002, was approximately 24,825. There are no legal restrictions on the payment of dividends or ownership or voting of such shares, except as to shares held in the Schlumberger Treasury. US stockholders are not subject to any Netherlands Antilles withholding or other Netherlands Antilles taxes attributable to ownership of such shares. Environmental Matters The Consolidated Balance Sheet includes accruals for the estimated future costs associated with certain environmental remediation activities related to the past use or disposal of hazardous materials. Substantially all such costs relate to divested operations and to facilities or locations that are no longer in operation. Due to a number of uncertainties, including uncertainty of timing, the scope of remediation, future technology, regulatory changes, the risk of personal injury, natural resource or property damage claims and other factors, it is possible that the ultimate remediation costs may exceed the amounts estimated. However, in the opinion of management, such additional costs are not expected to be material relative to consolidated liquidity, financial position or future results of operations. New Accounting Standards In June 2001, SFAS 141 (Business Combinations) and SFAS 142 (Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets) were issued. SFAS 141 was adopted by Schlumberger for acquisitions subsequent to June 30, 2001. SFAS 142 was adopted by Schlumberger commencing January 1, 2002. As required by SFAS 142, Schlumberger undertook an initial review of goodwill impairment in the first quarter of 2002 and completed an event driven review in the fourth quarter of 2002. The findings of the independent valuation indicated there was an impairment write down of $2.6 billion which was approved by the Board of Directors in December 2002 in conjunction with the approval of the new strategic plan for SchlumbergerSema. Amortization of goodwill and workforce ceased with effect from January 1, 2002. Assembled workforce, net of deferred taxes, of $175 million was reclassified to Goodwill. 30 Table of Contents Amortization of goodwill and other intangibles included in Schlumbergers results are as follows: (Stated in millions) Pretax 2002 2001 2000 Goodwill $ $ 270 $ 96 Workforce 32 Other intangibles 72 45 5 $ 72 $ 347 $ 101 In June 2001, SFAS 143 (Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations) was issued. SFAS 143 will be adopted by Schlumberger commencing January 1, 2003. Schlumberger does not believe that the implementation of this standard will have any material effect on its financial position or results of operations. In August 2001, SFAS 144 (Accounting for Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets) was issued. SFAS 144 was adopted by Schlumberger commencing January 1, 2002 and did not have a material effect on its financial position or results of operations. Effective January 1, 2002, Schlumberger adopted the FASB EITF Abstract 01 14, (Income Statement Characterization of Reimbursements Received for Out of Pocket Expenses Incurred). Prior year revenue has been restated to include reimbursable costs billed to customers which had been classified as a contra expense and now must be classified as revenue. The reclassification was only required in the Oilfield Services (OFS) segment as the SchlumbergerSema segment was already in compliance with the new standard. OFS operating revenue and cost of goods sold & services increased in 2001 by $557 million and in 2000 by $416 million. There was no effect on cash flow or net income. On July 29, 2002, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued SFAS 146 (Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities). The standard required companies to recognize costs associated with exit or disposal activities when they are incurred rather than at the date of a commitment to an exit or disposal plan. Examples of costs covered by the standard include lease termination costs and certain employee severance costs that are associated with a restructuring, discontinued operation, plant closing, or other exit or disposal activity. Previous accounting guidance was provided by EITF Issue No. 94 3, (Liability Recognition for Certain Employee Termination Benefits and Other Costs to Exit an Activity [including Certain Costs Incurred in a Restructuring]). SFAS 146 replaced Issue 94 3. Schlumberger will apply SFAS 146 prospectively to exit or disposal activities initiated after December 31, 2002. In November 2002, FASB Interpretation No. 45 (Guarantors Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others) was issued. It requires certain accounting and disclosures of guarantees to third parties including indebtedness. The statement is effective on a prospective basis for guarantees issued or modified after December 31, 2002. Schlumberger does not believe that the implementation of this statement will have a material effect on its financial position or results of operations. In January 2003, the Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) issued No. 00 21 Accounting for Revenue Arrangements with Multiple Deliverables. This EITF establishes the criteria for recognizing revenue in arrangements when several items are bundled into one agreement. EITF 00 21 does not allow revenue recognition unless the fair value of the undelivered element(s) is available and the element has stand alone value to the customer. EITF 00 21 also provides guidance on allocating the total contract revenue to the individual elements based upon the available fair value of each deliverable. Schlumberger is in the process of determining if this pronouncement will have a material impact on its financial position or results of operations. 31 Table of Contents Forward looking Statements This 10 K report, the fourth quarter and full year 2002 earnings release, associated web based publications and other statements we make contain forward looking statements, which include any statements that are not historical facts, such as our expectations regarding business outlook, economic recovery, improvements in liquidity, expected capex, multi client and depreciation and amortization expenditures, the funding of pension plans and related pension expense, the timing and likelihood of NPTests initial public offering, conditions in the oilfield service business, including activity levels during 2003, production increases in non OPEC areas, issues affecting the seismic industry, continued deepwater drilling activity, benefits from contract awards, future results of operations, pricing, future effective tax rates, the realization of cost reduction and savings in SchlumbergerSema and expectations regarding the future business and performance of SchlumbergerSema resulting from the updated strategy and business realignment. These statements involve risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, the extent and timing of a rebound in the global economy; changes in exploration and production spending by major oil companies; recovery of activity levels; improved pricing and realization of cost reduction and cost savings targets associated with the seismic business; continuing customer commitment to certain key oilfield projects; general economic and business conditions in key regions of the world, including Argentina and political and economic uncertainty in Venezuela and further socio political unrest in the Gulf and or Asia; changes in business strategy for SchlumbergerSema businesses including the expected growth of Schlumberger IT Consulting and Systems Integration Services and Network and Infrastructure Solutions in the global energy sector; continuing customer commitment to key long term services and solutions contracts in our SchlumbergerSema businesses; a reversal of the weak IT environment and a significant increase in IT spending; the extent and timing of a recovery in the telecommunications industry; continued growth in the demand for smart cards and related products; Schlumbergers ability to meet its identified liquidity projections, including the generation of sufficient cash flow from oilfield operating results and the successful completion of certain business divestitures; the adoption and effect of new accounting standards; potential contributions to pension plans and other factors detailed in our fourth quarter and full year 2002 earnings release; and our most recent Forms 10 K and 10 Q and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. If one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize (or the consequences of such a development changes), or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual outcomes may vary materially from those forecasted or expected. Schlumberger disclaims any intention or obligation to update publicly or revise such statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Item 7A Quantitative & Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Schlumberger does not believe it has a material exposure to financial market risk. Schlumberger manages the exposure to interest rate changes by using a mix of debt maturities and variable and fixed rate debt together with interest rate swaps, where appropriate, to fix or lower borrowing costs. With regard to foreign currency fluctuations, Schlumberger enters into various contracts, which change in value as foreign exchange rates change, to protect the value of external and intercompany transactions in foreign currencies. Schlumberger does not enter into foreign currency or interest rate transactions for speculative purposes. Schlumberger Oilfield Services has operations in Venezuela which represented about 4% of the 2002 Oilfield Services operating revenue. In light of the present labor unrest in Venezuela, Schlumberger is reviewing its potential currency and business exposure, and taking appropriate steps to minimize the risks. While the ultimate loss is not determinable at this time, such loss will not have a significant effect on Schlumbergers consolidated financial position or liquidity. 32 Table of Contents 
 
