Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 2003 Summary The year 2003 marked a watershed for Schlumberger as we took the decision to focus on our core businesses in oilfield services. Our reasoning was simple. World energy needs for much of the next half century will be met mostly by carbon based fuels produced from an aging reserves base. Substantial investment will be needed to sustain todays production as well as to meet tomorrows demand, and technology will be the key to a cleaner, more cost effective response to this challenge. We therefore believe the future for Schlumberger is exceptionally bright. The years results for Oilfield Services were robust, with growth in all regions. Among the GeoMarket regions, activity was strongest in Mexico, Indonesia, India, the Caspian, and on land in the United States. Most technology segments registered double digit gains, with records achieved by Drilling & Measurements and Data & Consulting Services. Much of the technology that saw increasing market penetration was associated with boosting performance in mature fields, or brownfields, to stem declining production. Rotary steerable systems to accurately place well trajectories to tap bypassed hydrocarbon pockets and a range of cased hole wireline evaluation tools to analyze such zones were two particular successes. A number of technical and business highlights marked the year. Integrated Project Management (IPM) continued to grow, particularly in Mexico, where our history of successful projects led to the award of the Chicontepec contract, the most significant oil development project in Mexico in the last 20 years. In Malaysia, we signed a contract with PETRONAS Carigali Sdn. Bhd. to jointly redevelop the Bokor field that began production in the 1980s. This field, comprising more than 165 stacked sands and over 100 producing strings, has been modeled using the latest techniques and the redevelopment plan involves multiple technology segments. Such projects underline the value of our unique GeoMarket organization. In December we announced a phased agreement to acquire PetroAlliance, Russias largest independent oilfield service company, beginning with a minority share in 2004. PetroAlliance was formed in 1995 to provide a broad range of exploration and development services to international standards. The size and scope of activity in Russia is huge, and this type of investment will benefit Schlumberger and the Russian oil industry as that industry seeks access to technology to be applied to its particular needs for continued growth. Perhaps the most difficult challenge we set for ourselves early in 2003 was to return WesternGeco to sustainable profitability. Continued overcapacity in both the land and marine and multiclient data markets made this a daunting task. Our approach has been threefold: to bring capacity and cost down to appropriate levels, to reflect a proper carrying value for the data library, and to continue the aggressive introduction of proprietary Q* technology, for which the market has continued to grow rapidly. Last summer we acquired the first marine time lapse Q survey for Statoil, 200 km from the western coast of Norway. Twenty one months had elapsed between the two surveys. Initial results, produced only 11 days after acquisition, enabled Statoil to revise plans for a new well and drill a shallower trajectory to remain clear of the oil/water contact. The well was a success and is producing without making water. The reliability and extremely high repeatability of Q Marine* technology were considered critical to achieving this result. In other applications, a Q system was commissioned in the Middle East late in the year and Q Seabed* underwent highly successful trials in both the North Sea and Middle East. In defining the business activities sold with SchlumbergerSema, we maintained our commitment to the growing activity in oil and gas IT solutions. The natural fusion of the Schlumberger software and information management activities with the SchlumbergerSema oil & gas consulting and network infrastructure businesses began in October, and by year end business managers were in place throughout the GeoMarket organization. We have chosen to retain the Schlumberger Information Solutions name for the enlarged business, and our objective is to help customers extract more value from their core operational processes through leveraging the combination of our domain knowledge in IT and in exploration and production (E&P). 13 / SLB 2003 FORM 10 K Table of Contents Part II, Item 7 Early in 2003 we stated clear financial goals. By year end we had made solid progress. Return on capital employed had risen to 12.8% in the fourth quarter, double the corresponding figure in 2002 and well in line with our intention to reach the mid teens longer term. After tax return on sales for Oilfield Services reached 14.2% in the same quarter a level much more consistent with our performance in previous cycles. Net debt fell to $4.2 billion, just shy of our $4 billion target as a result of adverse currency movements. For more information regarding the purposes for which we use net debt, see page 29 of this Report. In January 2004, we concluded the sale of the major part of SchlumbergerSema to Atos Origin and reduced our holding in that company to 14.5%. Total cash proceeds from the cash and stock sale amounted to $1.1 billion. With conclusion of the sale of the North American electricity meter business and the sales of the Business Continuity, Infodata, and Telecom software products businesses we expect to see net debt below the $3 billion level by the middle of 2004. Beyond that point, the only significant divestiture remaining will be the IPO of Axalto, the Schlumberger smart card business, as and when market conditions permit. In 2003, Schlumberger operated four business segments: Oilfield Services, WesternGeco, SchlumbergerSema and Other. The following discussion and analysis of results of operations should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements. (Stated in millions) 20032 20022 % Change OILFIELD SERVICES Operating Revenue $ 8,823 $ 8,171 8 % Pretax Segment Income1 $ 1,536 $ 1,278 20 % WESTERNGECO Operating Revenue $ 1,183 $ 1,476 (20 )% Pretax Segment Income1,3 $ (20 ) $ 71 % SCHLUMBERGERSEMA Operating Revenue $ 2,677 $ 2,409 11 % Pretax Segment Income1 $ 61 $ 17 249 % OTHER4 Operating Revenue $ 1,480 $ 1,334 11 % Pretax Segment Income1 $ 109 $ 18 505 % 1 Pretax segment income represents income before taxes and minority interest, excluding interest income, interest expense and amortization of intangibles. 2 2003 excludes: a net charge of $49 million for the write down of an investment and the gain on the sale of a note; $167 million of debt extinguishment costs; a charge of $421 million for impairment and other charges/credits. 2002 excludes an aggregate $30 million charge related to the financial/economic crisis in Argentina. 3 2003 excludes impairment charges of $398 million for Multiclient library and $54 million for vessels. 2002 excludes an impairment charge of $184 million for Multiclient library and charges of $117 million for severance and other costs. 4 Principally comprises the Axalto (Smart Cards and Point of Sale Terminals) and Electricity Meters activities. Also included are the Business Continuity, Infodata, Telecom Software Products, Water Services, Essentis and Payphones activities. Oilfield Services World oil demand surged in 2003 due to strong economic growth in North America and China. The increase in demand from these areas accounted for almost two thirds of overall world oil demand growth. The rise in world oil production more than matched demand growth. Non OPEC oil production accounted for one third of the increase, due to expanding production in the CIS. OPEC output increased despite supply disruptions in Venezuela and Nigeria and the loss of Iraqi production during and after the war. Oil prices remained high throughout the year, with an average Western Texas Intermediate (WTI) oil price almost 20% higher than in 2002. 14 / SLB 2003 FORM 10 K Table of Contents Part II, Item 7 In 2004, the rate of global oil demand growth is expected to be similar to 2003, with oil demand projected to grow strongly in developing countries and ease in OECD countries. Non OPEC oil production is forecast to grow at roughly similar levels to 2003 although there is more uncertainty over the level of supply in the CIS and the US. OPEC production is likely to be adjusted to maintain the price of the OPEC basket of crude in the stated target price range of $22 to $28 per barrel. North American gas demand in 2003 showed little change compared to 2002, and is not expected to vary much in 2004. However, maintaining gas supply to meet demand is challenging, as production decline rates are already high and expected to increase further. The average annual US natural gas price in 2003 rose considerably compared to last year and has stimulated growth in the number of active drilling rigs in North America. Relatively high commodity prices in 2003 and increases in production have resulted in high levels of cash generation in the oil and gas industry, and a subsequent increase in the average number of active drilling rigs. Assuming demand remains strong and that OPEC manages to maintain oil prices in its target range, exploration and production (E&P) spending is expected to increase in 2004. 2003 Results Revenue of $8.8 billion increased 8% in 2003 versus 2002 led by North America with an increase of 14%, followed by Latin America and Middle East & Asia, which both increased 9%, and Europe/CIS/W. Africa, which was up 4%. Pretax operating income of $1.54 billion in 2003 was 20% higher than in 2002, primarily due to strong customer demand resulting from increased E&P expenditures and customer acceptance of new technologies, such as PowerDrive* rotary steerable systems, LiteCRETE* coalbed methane slurry system, ABC*Analysis Behind Casing suite of services, Viscoelastic Diverting Acid (VDA*) advanced acidizing system, and ClearFRAC* polymer free fracturing fluid. Overhead cost savings of $67 million generated from restructuring and downsizing efforts, principally in Europe/CIS/W. Africa and North & South America, also contributed to the increased profitability during the year. Oilfield Services began the year with relatively flat revenue in the first quarter, then achieved modest, but continuous growth over the following three quarters due to new contracts, the introduction of new technologies, and increased demand for Integrated Project Management and Schlumberger Information Solutions (SIS) services. The results were positively impacted by an upturn in natural gas drilling in North America, and increased activity in Mexico, Russia and the Middle East, partially offset by a nationwide strike in Venezuela and ethnic unrest in Nigeria. All technology product lines helped drive revenue growth. Well Services and Drilling & Measurements record levels of revenue contributed to more than half of the increase in Oilfield Services revenue. Data & Consulting services drew the award of several contracts for reservoir modeling, field development planning, and production optimization. SIS experienced strong demand, particularly in Europe, Asia, and the Middle East. Integrated Project Management (IPM) experienced high activity levels principally fueled by Latin America. In December, Schlumberger announced a phased agreement to acquire PetroAlliance beginning with a minority share in 2004. PetroAlliance is Russias largest independent oilfield services company, and provides a broad range of exploration and development services throughout Russia and the Caspian. North America North America revenue of $2.6 billion increased 14% versus 2002. The growth in revenue was mainly due to increased activity in US Land, as well as Canada, which had a 31% increase in revenue to $410 million. Both markets were driven by strong commodity prices, which, in turn, were caused by the record low gas storage levels at the end of the 2003 drawdown season. This growth was not mirrored in the Gulf of Mexico where activity was essentially flat year on year. A combination of factors contributed to the sluggish performance 15 / SLB 2003 FORM 10 K Table of Contents Part II, Item 7 offshore, including higher finding and developing cost on the shelf, lack of exploration success in deepwater and unfavorable weather conditions hampering drilling and completion efficiency on a number of deepwater projects. Pretax operating income of $365 million increased 33% over 2002 primarily due to a beneficial fall through resulting from improved equipment utilization in US Land following asset rationalization and cost containment. Increased demand for Drilling & Measurements, cased hole wireline and hydraulic fracturing solutions, related to increased complexity in developing new gas reserves in US Land, also contributed to profitability improvement. Latin America Latin America revenue of $1.4 billion increased 9% versus 2002 primarily due to substantial increases in Mexico, Brazil and Argentina, partially offset by a significant decline in Venezuela. Large scale project management contracts substantially accounted for the growth in activity in Mexico. Growth in Brazil was driven by a strong increase in Petrobras exploration activity, and Argentina benefited from the high oil price. The political turmoil in the early part of the year substantially impacted results in Venezuela, however the focus on restoring production favorably drove the revenue in the latter half of the year. The increase in E&P spending in Mexico was driven by the compelling need to satisfy the domestic demand for natural gas, increase the light oil production and ramp up the oil production potential. Key contracts that contributed to revenue growth included project management of a four year, $500 million integrated oilfield services project which represents the most significant oil development project in Mexico in the last 20 years, and a two year, $60 million information management solution. Pretax operating income of $221 million was up 31% year on year with all areas excluding Venezuela contributing to improved profitability. There were record levels of Integrated Project Management contracts in Mexico and positive fall through on incremental revenue in Argentina and Brazil. Europe/CIS/West Africa Revenue of $2.6 billion increased 4% over 2002, primarily in Russia due to growth in E&P spending and continued expansion of the addressable market, which drove increased fracturing activity, high sales of artificial lift pumps, and the adoption of more advanced drilling technologies. CIS reached a record revenue level of $629 million, 22% higher than 2002. An increase in the number of E&P companies entering the development phase of deepwater projects in the West & South Africa GeoMarket during the second half of 2003, and an offshore gas project in the Mediterranean also contributed to overall activity improvement in the Area, principally in Well Completions & Productivity and Well Services technologies. These results were partially offset by lower exploration activity by the major oil companies in the North Sea and by production shutdowns in the Western Niger delta in Nigeria due to socio political unrest. Pretax operating income of $460 million increased 20% over 2002 primarily due to cost savings generated at the beginning of the year, as well as increased activities in West & South Africa due to deepwater activities moving into a more lucrative development phase. This was partially offset by appreciation of currencies against the US dollar negatively impacting the results by $4 million later in the year. Middle East & Asia Revenue of $2.1 billion increased 9% over 2002 with more than half the growth coming from Saudi Arabia/Kuwait, Egypt and Indonesia. Despite geopolitical uncertainty in the period leading up to the war in Iraq and relative softness in Asia principally caused by the SARS outbreak, revenue showed marked improvement primarily due to higher demand for Drilling & Measurements, Wireline and Well Completion & Productivity technologies in Egypt, Saudi Arabia/Kuwait and Indonesia partially offset by reduced activity in Malaysia/Brunei/Philippines due to the suspension of planned deepwater development work resulting from the 16 / SLB 2003 FORM 10 K Table of Contents Part II, Item 7 deepwater acreage dispute between Malaysia and Brunei. Late in the year, strong year on year improvements across the region were tempered by reduced rig activity in Saudi Arabia due to customers accelerated spending in the first three quarters. Pretax operating income of $509 million increased 12%, primarily due to the operating leverage on increased revenue across most GeoMarkets, principally caused by increased activity in Indonesias East Kalimantan and stimulation activity and artificial lift sales in East Africa. 2002 Results Revenue for 2002 was $8.2 billion versus $8.4 billion in 2001 reflecting reduced activity in North America and Latin America, which was partially mitigated by higher activity in Europe/CIS/W. Africa and the Middle East & Asia. Pretax operating income of $1.3 billion decreased 19% primarily from reduced margins in Wireline and Well Services as activity declined in North America. A sharp fall in revenue at the beginning of 2002 reflected declining activity levels in North America, which remained depressed for the remainder of the year, together with political and economic uncertainty in Latin America. In the second and third quarters, robust activity in Europe/CIS/W. Africa, and signs of a possible recovery in Asia, mitigated the effects of low North American drilling levels resulting in increased revenue. However, this trend was short lived as slower activity outside North America due mainly to seasonal influences coupled with budget cuts resulted in lower fourth quarter revenue. The Caspian, Russia and Mexico GeoMarkets posted the highest double digit year on year revenue growth of 89%, 62% and 48%, respectively. From a technology standpoint, the strongest performer was Well Completions & Productivity where acquisitions, testing, advanced completions systems and artificial lift technology showed market share gains. During the year, Schlumberger acquired A. Comeau & Associates Limited, a leading provider of electrical engineering products and services for artificially lifted wells. This latest addition, combined with the successful integration of Sensa and Phoenix technologies into the Schlumberger Artificial Lift services portfolio, contributed to higher sales in 2002, particularly in the Eastern Hemisphere. The Drilling & Measurements technology segment also recorded solid revenue growth fuelled largely by the continued penetration of the PowerDrive475* rotary steerable system into new GeoMarkets. Schlumberger made two further acquisitions during the year to bolster its real time reservoir management suite of services. In January, Schlumberger acquired Norwegian based Inside Reality AS providing new 3D virtual reality systems that create a unique and powerful environment for interactive well planning and real time geosteering analysis. Schlumberger also acquired the software and services business of Technoguide AS, a leader in the reservoir modeling domain. North America Revenue of $2.3 billion decreased 19% versus 2001. A steep revenue decline at the outset of the year reflected a continued lackluster drilling environment and unseasonably mild weather conditions. Throughout the remainder of the year activity levels remained depressed resulting in essentially flat revenue for 2002. Other factors contributing to reduced revenue included lower non rig related activity resulting in lower Wireline, Well Services, and Well Completions & Productivity revenue, the effects of the tropical storms in the third quarter and a slow pick up in Canadian activity post spring break up. Pretax operating income of $274 million decreased from $637 million in 2001 due to pricing pressures across all services, particularly in Well Services and Well Completions & Productivity. Latin America Revenue of $1.3 billion decreased 9% versus 2001. Ongoing political and economic uncertainty in the region continued to affect business conditions, particularly in Venezuela and Argentina. This particularly impacted results in the first half of the year. In sharp contrast, the second half of 2002 saw solid growth partly as a 17 / SLB 2003 FORM 10 K Table of Contents Part II, Item 7 result of higher demand for Drilling & Measurements and Well Completions technologies connected to contracts in the Burgos Basin. In addition, the completion of an IPM project that involved the sale of production facilities in Ecuador for $26.5 million in the fourth quarter contributed to end of year higher revenue. Pretax operating income of $169 million declined 8% as a result of decreased activity in Venezuela and Argentina. Europe/CIS/West Africa Revenue of $2.5 billion increased 17% versus 2001. Strong revenue growth was recorded in the first three quarters reflecting increased activity levels and market share gains particularly in the Caspian and Russia GeoMarkets in respect to artificial lift and drilling technologies. The Well Completions & Productivity technology segment recorded the strongest growth of 27% followed by Drilling & Measurements, which grew 24%. This growth was partially mitigated by a steep revenue drop in the fourth quarter due to exceptionally severe winter weather conditions in the North Sea and Russia that affected all services, particularly fracturing activities. In addition, operator budget cuts in the Nigeria GeoMarket and refocused investment decisions in the UK contributed to lower fourth quarter revenue. Pretax operating income was $383 million compared to $385 million in 2001, with the very slight decrease due to softening in pricing towards the end of the year and restructuring in the region to reduce support infrastructure to match slowing activity levels. Middle East & Asia Revenue of $1.9 billion increased 8% versus 2001. After a decline at the beginning of the year resulting from exceptional artificial lift sales at the end of 2001, the Asian market showed signs of recovery highlighted by strong revenue growth in the second quarter. Over the year, the India and Malaysia/Brunei/Philippines GeoMarkets recorded the strongest growth due to increased activity in these countries. In addition, the Wireline and Well Services technology segments posted the highest growth, up 14% and 10%, respectively. This was partly offset by a slowdown in activity in the second half of 2002 due to a number of major projects nearing completion and lower equipment sales. Pretax operating income of $453 million was up 9% versus 2001. 2001 Results Revenue of $8.4 billion increased 22% over 2000. Increased non rig related activity and higher pricing levels contributed to the growth. First quarter results reflected continued high activity in North America and increased demand internationally, but a softening in North American drilling activity in the third quarter offset international growth. Market share gains, improved pricing levels, and the introduction of new technology contributed to strong growth in the Drilling & Measurements and Well Completions & Productivity technology segments. Three key acquisitions were made during the year: Baker Jardine (software tools, IT consulting and integrated solutions that help operators increase oil and gas production), Sensa (fiber optic sensing technologies), and Phoenix (technologies and techniques for optimizing production from artificially lifted wells). Pretax operating income of $1.59 billion increased 49% over last year. North America Revenue of $2.8 billion increased 17% versus 2000. The strong revenue growth in the first quarter of 2001 plateaued in the middle of the year. This was due to slower economic conditions and declining natural gas prices, which resulted in reduced activity towards the end of the year. The Alaska and Gulf Coast GeoMarkets recorded the strongest revenue growth due to increased demand for Drilling & Measurements, Well Services, and Wireline technologies. Pretax operating income of $637 increased 69%, primarily due to strong demand for Well Services technology. 18 / SLB 2003 FORM 10 K Table of Contents Part II, Item 7 Latin America Revenue of $1.5 billion increased 31%, with improvements across all services contributing to double digit growth across the GeoMarkets, which was led by Peru/Colombia/Ecuador and Latin America South as a result of increased Drilling & Measurements, Well Services, and Well Completions activity. Pretax operating income of $183 million increased 131% principally as a result of increases in Integrated Project Management and Wireline services. Europe/CIS/West Africa Revenue of $2.1 billion increased 36%. Overall moderate growth was led by high demand for Well Completions services in Nigeria, and strong growth in both Drilling & Measurements and Wireline services in Russia. Growth in the West & South Africa GeoMarket was partly due to an Early Production Facility Project for IPM during the year. Pretax operating income of $385 million increased 60% due mainly to the Well Completions & Productivity segment, which recorded strong growth across most GeoMarkets. Middle East & Asia Revenue of $1.8 billion increased 16%. Almost all GeoMarkets in the Area recorded strong double digit growth led by Drilling & Measurements and Well Services activities in the Malaysia/Brunei/Philippines GeoMarket, and as a result of new contract wins in the Gulf GeoMarket. Pretax operating income of $416 grew 34% due to increases in the Drilling & Measurements and Well Completions & Productivity technology segments. WesternGeco 2003 Results Revenue for 2003 was $1.2 billion versus $1.5 billion in 2002, reflecting a 20% decrease year on year. This was primarily due to lower land crew activity following the exiting of the North American Land market combined with the completion of some contracts in the Middle East. The decrease in revenue was also due to declines in Multiclient sales principally in North & South America, partially offset by increased Marine activity in Europe, Caspian and the Middle East. Q Marine* continued to gain customer acceptance with 75% vessel utilization on third party contracts in the third quarter, and the first Q on Q time lapse survey, which was performed in the North Sea with initial processing results available after 11 days. The end of the year saw a return to traditional seasonal Multiclient revenue levels partially helped by the signing of a long term business agreement with a major energy company that included the licensing of part of the WesternGeco data library, as well as joint R&D and training on new technology for seismic data processing. Including Multiclient pre commitments, the backlog at the end of 2003 reached $408 million, reflecting the award of a number of Land contracts in the Middle East and a material Multiclient volume agreement signed in the fourth quarter. During 2003, Q Marine continued to command significant pricing premiums as a result of the added value obtained from the delivered product, but pricing across other business segments was flat to down for conventional marine, land and data processing activity due to continued overcapacity in the industry. The companys decision to acquire only significantly prefunded multiclient surveys, along with lower amortization following the impairment charge in 2003, resulted in the Multiclient product line being in a much healthier condition at the end of the year. Q Marine penetration continued strong, reflected by the doubling of Q revenue year on year. Pretax operating loss was $20 million versus a profit of $71 million in 2002 (excluding Multiclient impairment and other charges in both years) mainly due to significantly higher Multiclient amortization charges as a result of lower sales and a more conservative amortization policy in light of business conditions. The lower Multiclient sales were primarily due to an overall lessening in interest in the Gulf of Mexico from 19 / SLB 2003 FORM 10 K Table of Contents Part II, Item 7 the major oil companies coupled with an average price reduction of approximately 30% during the year. The deterioration in the Multiclient results was partially offset by an improvement in Land and Marine following the fourth quarter 2002 restructuring program combined with better service delivery. In the third quarter, an impairment charge of $398 million pretax was taken against the multiclient library and there was a $54 million pretax charge on the Western Trident and Western Monarch vessels. 2002 Results WesternGeco revenue of $1.5 billion decreased 13% compared to the prior year, primarily due to decreased activity in North America and Europe/CIS/W. Africa, which were partially offset by increases in Latin America and the Middle East & Asia. The seismic downturn continued throughout 2002 resulting in significantly lower activity levels, a reduction in Multiclient sales, and extreme pricing pressures on all services due to large overcapacity in the seismic industry. Significant workforce reductions were made in the fourth quarter of 2002 as a result of the decision to stop Land acquisition activities in the US lower 48 states and Canada. Pretax operating income of $71 million fell 68%, primarily due to significantly lower Multiclient sales and decreased activities in North America coupled with Land seismic contract losses in Mexico and Marine seismic contract losses in India, both of which were related to production delays. 2001 Results The WesternGeco joint venture was formed on November 30, 2000. Revenue in 2001 was $1.7 billion and pretax operating income was $221 million. The Malaysia/Brunei/Philippines, Alaska, Gulf Coast, and West & South Africa GeoMarkets recorded the strongest results for the year. Multiclient sales of $654 million in a favorable pricing environment also contributed to the high level of activity and were the major contributor to the operating income. SchlumbergerSema 2003 Results On September 22, 2003, Schlumberger announced its intention to sell the SchlumbergerSema business to Atos Origin. The sale closed on January 29, 2004. The transaction proceeds consisted of 443 million ($550 million) in cash, which included a working capital adjustment, and 19.3 million shares of common stock of Atos Origin with a value of 1.02 billion ($1.275 billion) which represented approximately 29% of the outstanding common shares of Atos Origin. On February 2, 2004, Schlumberger sold 9.6 million shares for $630 million reducing its investment in Atos Origin to approximately 15% of the outstanding common shares. Revenue of $2.7 billion was 11% higher than 2002. The increase was mainly due to the strengthening of the European currencies against the US dollar, with a positive impact of $274 million, resulting in an underlying decrease in operating revenue of $6 million. Pretax operating income of $61 million increased $44 million versus 2002. The improvement in profitability reflected the full year benefit of indirect cost reduction programs carried out in 2002 in North America, Asia, UK, and Sweden coupled with improvement in gross margins in Asia and South America. North & South America Revenue of $350 million decreased 2% mainly due to the Salt Lake City Olympic Games revenue in 2002, partially offset by new contracts for Lee County, Florida; Dallas County, Texas; Sprint; and the city of Los Angeles, California. 20 / SLB 2003 FORM 10 K Table of Contents Part II, Item 7 Pretax operating income of $3 million increased $57 million year on year. Despite the decline in revenue, operating income increased substantially mainly due to the positive impact of indirect cost reduction programs initiated in 2002, which had a full impact of $29 million in 2003. Europe/Middle East/Africa Revenue of $2.2 billion increased 14% mainly due to the appreciation of European currencies against the US dollar. Revenue from operations declined due to a depressed IT market in Italy, a more than 20% average selling price drop in France, and a sharp downturn in the telecommunications industry in Germany. These declines were substantially offset by a significant increase in revenue in the UK due to the Metropolitan Police, Department of Works and Pension, Consignia, and Department of Trade and Industry contracts, and by the award of the All Africa Games project in Nigeria. Pretax operating income of $46 million decreased 65% year on year reflecting the impact of lower revenue from operations due to the major downturn in the IT industry, especially in France and Germany. Profitability also decreased due to extra service delivery costs in Sweden, and higher pension costs in France. These decreases were partially offset by the benefit of indirect cost reduction programs in the UK, as well as increased profitability from the revenue growth in the UK and Nigeria. Asia Revenue of $144 million decreased 4% mainly due to a lower activity level in India and Taiwan. Pretax operating income increased from break even in 2002 to $34 million profit in 2003, reflecting a 10% increase in gross margins, as well as lower costs following headcount reduction programs initiated in 2001 and 2002. 2002 Results Revenue of $2.4 billion increased 31% compared to 2001 mainly due to the acquisition of Sema plc whose results were consolidated with effect from April 1, 2001. The pretax operating income was $17 million compared to a loss of $15 million in 2001, reflecting the cost reductions initiatives implemented since the integration of Sema plc into Schlumberger. North & South America Revenue of $356 million decreased 7% over 2001 primarily due a declining activity level in the telecommunications and utility industries due primarily to the weak IT services spending environment as customers faced economic challenges and continued to revise budgets downwards and delay decisions on contract awards. At the 2002 Winter Olympic Games, SchlumbergerSema led a consortium of 15 technology partners in a three year long project to deliver the IT infrastructure needed to run the Games. Pretax operating loss of $54 million improved by $4 million over 2001, mainly attributable to the cost reduction programs implemented throughout the area. Europe/Middle East/Africa Revenue of $1.9 billion increased 33% over 2002 mainly due to the inclusion of a full years revenue from the acquisition of Sema plc compared to nine months in 2001. Additionally, the main growth contributor was the Public Sector mainly in the UK where SchlumbergerSema won large outsourcing contracts with the Association of Train Operating Companies, the Department of Works and Pension, and the Vehicle Inspectorate, and a health and welfare services project to Consignias 220,000 employees. Pretax operating income of $132 million increased 33% due mainly to the cost cutting program implemented throughout the year and higher activity level in the UK. 21 / SLB 2003 FORM 10 K Table of Contents Part II, Item 7 Asia Revenue of $150 million increased 36% mainly due to the inclusion of a full years revenue from the acquisition of Sema plc compared to nine months in 2001. The decreased activity in telecommunications, mainly in China and Taiwan, was offset by the increase in the finance segment on new outsourcing contracts in the insurance sector in Japan and delivery of payment systems in China. Pretax operating income decreased 94% mainly attributable to pricing pressure and economic declines in the telecommunications IT services industry. 2001 Results On April 6, 2001, Schlumberger completed the acquisition of Sema plc, an IT and technical services company with a strong European presence, for $5.15 billion. Revenue of $1.8 billion compared to $70 million in 2000 reflecting the acquisition of Sema plc. Pretax operating loss of $15 million improved $69 million over the prior year due to the addition of Sema plc. North & South America Revenue of $381 million increased from $70 million in 2000 essentially due to the inclusion of SchlumbergerSema and the full years activity of the Convergent Group, acquired in November 2000 and CellNet Data Systems, acquired in June 2000. Pretax operating loss of $58 million improved $12 million compared to the previous year due to the inclusion of SchlumbergerSema and the new businesses acquired the previous year. Europe/Middle East/Africa Revenue of $1.4 billion in 2001 compared to no activity in 2000 due to the inclusion of Sema plc. Main contracts included the award of multi million dollar contracts in France for Banque de France and in the UK for Metropolitan Police. Pretax operating income was $99 million due to the inclusion of Sema plc. Asia Revenue of $110 million compared to no activity in 2000 due to the inclusion of Sema plc. Pretax operating income was $8 million due to the inclusion of Sema plc. Other The activities included in this segment are Axalto (Smart Cards and Point of Sale Terminals), Electricity Meters, Business Continuity, Infodata, Telecom Software Products, Payphones, and Essentis. Active divestiture negotiations are currently ongoing for each of these activities. 2003 Results In July 2003, Schlumberger entered into an agreement to sell the Electricity Meters activity to Itron Inc. for $255 million in cash. The deal is expected to be completed in the first half of 2004 depending upon the successful completion of the Hart Scott Rodino review process and other conditions. Revenue of $1.5 billion increased 11% over 2002. Electricity Meters had a 25% improvement on revenue of $294 million partially as a result of the transition from electro mechanical meters to solid state meters. Also contributing to revenue growth, Smart Cards and Point of Sale Terminals revenue of $776 million increased 8% principally due to strong demand for Subscriber Identity Module (SIM) cards for the mobile communications sector, particularly in North & South America and Eastern Europe. 22 / SLB 2003 FORM 10 K Table of Contents Part II, Item 7 Pretax operating income of $109 million increased six fold. Electricity Meters pretax operating income of $61 million increased 132% primarily due to improved manufacturing efficiencies, changes in product mix, and cost reductions. Smart Cards pretax operating income of $58 million increased 68% due to better growth margins as a result of increased volume and a more favorable product mix, partially offset by lower average selling prices. 2002 Results Revenue of $1.3 billion decreased 34% reflecting the divestiture of the Resource Management Services North American water metering activities, non North American electricity and water meter, and worldwide gas meter businesses in November 2001. Cards activity remained flat despite the continuing slump in the telecommunications industry and the continued pricing pressure. This was partially offset by higher activity in banking and IT cards. Electricity Meters activity improved 13% on revenue of $235 million as a result of the market penetration of Automated Meter Reading (AMR) technologies. Pretax operating income of $18 million decreased 80% mainly due to the divestiture of most of the Resource Management Services businesses, and significantly lower growth margins in the Cards business. 2001 Results Revenue of $2.0 billion decreased 4% reflecting mainly the divestiture of most of the Resource Management Services businesses, which were sold in November 2001. Cards revenue grew by 8% reflecting the acquisition of Bull CP8 in March 2001, partially offset by a decline in SIM card activity related to a slowdown in the telecommunications industry. Electricity Meters activity grew 29% on revenue of $208 million as a result of the acquisition of CellNet and participation in network projects. Pretax operating income of $88 million decreased 42% due mainly to lower growth margins and higher operating expenses in the Smart Cards business. Income Continuing Operations (Stated in millions except per share amounts) Income (loss)from Continuing Operations Earnings (loss) per share Basic Diluted Adjusted5 20031 $ 473 $ 0.81 $ 0.81 $ 0.81 20022,4 $ (2,417 ) $ (4.18 ) $ (4.18 ) $ (4.18 ) 20013,4 $ 494 $ 0.86 $ 0.85 $ 1.35 1. Includes a net, after tax and minority interest charge of $440 million ($0.74 per share diluted). See Charges Continuing Operations on page 47 of this Report in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 2. Includes a net, after tax and minority interest charge of $3.11 billion ($5.38 per share diluted). See Charges Continuing Operations on page 47 of this Report in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 3. Includes a net, after tax and minority interest charge of $297 million ($0.51 per share diluted). See Charges Continuing Operations on page 47 of this Report in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 4. Restated for discontinued operations. 5. Excludes amortization of goodwill. In 2003, Oilfield Services segment net income increased $196 million, or 20%, to $1.19 billion as revenue increased 8%, with increases in all geographic areas, particularly North America where revenue was up 14%. WesternGeco segment net loss of $17 million compared to a $4 million profit in 2002 as revenue decreased 20% reflecting lower land crew activity following the decision to exit the North American Land market and lower Multiclient sales principally in North & South America. SchlumbergerSema net income of $38 million improved 23 / SLB 2003 FORM 10 K Table of Contents Part II, Item 7 from $9 million in 2002, as revenue increased 11%. In the Other segment, net income of $72 million increased $61 million as revenue increased 11% reflecting strong improvement in the Smart Cards and Electricity Meters activities. In 2002, Oilfield Services segment net income decreased $179 million, or 15%, to $998 million as revenue declined 3%. North America registered the most significant decline as revenue decreased 19%. WesternGeco segment net income of $4 million decreased from $79 million in 2001, as revenue decreased 13% in the declining seismic market. SchlumbergerSema segment net income of $9 million improved from a loss of $5 million in 2001, reflecting the revenue increase of 31% (7% on a pro forma basis assuming the Sema plc acquisition took place on January 1, 2001) and the effect of the previously announced cost reduction program. In the Other segment, net income declined to $11 million, from $71 million in 2001 which included the divested Resource Management Services businesses. In 2001, Oilfield Services segment net income increased $387 million, or 49%, to $1.18 billion reflecting the 22% growth in revenue. Higher pricing levels and increased non rig related activity were the major contributing factors. WesternGeco segment net income of $79 million improved from a loss of $37 million in 2000 as revenue increased to $1.7 billion, from $0.5 billion, attributable to the new venture with Baker Hughes Incorporated, formed in November 2000. SchlumbergerSema segment net loss of $5 million improved $44 million reflecting the incremental income from the newly acquired Sema plc. In the Other segment, net income of $71 million declined $42 million from the prior year with declines in the semiconductor related and Smart Cards activities. Currency Risks Refer to page 42 of this Report, Translation of Non US Currencies in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, for a description of the Schlumberger policy on currency hedging. There are no material unhedged assets, liabilities or commitments which are denominated in other than a business functional currency. Schlumberger businesses operate principally in US dollars, the euro and most other European currencies and most South American currencies. A 5% change in average exchange rates in 2003 would have changed revenue by about 1% and income from continuing operations before charges by about 7%. Research & Engineering Expenditures by business segment were as follows: (Stated in millions) 2003 2002 2001 Oilfield Services $ 375 $ 370 $ 362 WesternGeco 52 68 63 SchlumbergerSema 55 84 86 Other 74 74 118 In process R&D charge1 25 $ 556 $ 596 $ 654 1 Relating to the Bull CP8 acquisition. Interest Expense Interest expense decreased $34 million, to $334 million due to a decrease in average debt balances and a decrease in average borrowing rates from 4.9% to 4.6%. The decrease in 2002 of $17 million, to $368 million, was due to a decrease in average borrowing rates from 5.8% to 4.9% which more than offset a $1 billion increase in average debt balances. The increase in 2001 of $109 million, to $385 million, reflected the significantly higher debt balances incurred, relating to the acquisition of Sema plc, which were only partially offset by a reduction in average borrowing rate from 6.9% to 5.8%. 24 / SLB 2003 FORM 10 K Table of Contents Part II, Item 7 Hanover Compressor Company In August 2001, Schlumberger sold its Oilfield Services worldwide gas compression activity to Hanover Compressor Company. The proceeds included 8.7 million shares of Hanover Compressor common stock, with a value at closing of $173 million, which is restricted from marketability until August 30, 2004, and a $150 million long term subordinated note maturing December 15, 2005. In the fourth quarter of 2003, Schlumberger sold the subordinated note for $177 million and realized a pretax gain of $32 million ($20 million after tax; $0.03 per share). At December 31, 2003, the carrying value of Schlumbergers investment in Hanover Compressor common stock exceeded the market value. As required by generally accepted accounting principles (SFAS 115), Schlumberger wrote down its investment to the fair market value of $91.4 million at December 31, 2003 and recorded a charge of $81.2 million (before and after tax; $0.13 per share). As part of the sale agreement, Hanover Compressor had an option to put its interest in the PIGAP II joint venture in Venezuela back to Schlumberger if certain financing conditions were not met. Hanover Compressor did not exercise this option. Charges Continuing Operations Schlumberger recorded the following after tax and minority interest charges/credits for continuing operations in 2003, 2002 and 2001: In December 2003, a gain of $20 million on the sale of the Hanover Compressor note. In December 2003, a charge of $81 million relating to the write down, to fair market value, of Schlumbergers investment in Hanover Compressor common stock. The write down was required by SFAS 115 as the decline in the market value of the stock is other than temporary. In September 2003, a $205 million multiclient library impairment charge following an evaluation of current and expected future business conditions in the seismic sector, a $38 million seismic vessel impairment charge and a $31 million gain on the sale of a drilling rig. Between June 12 and July 22, 2003, subsidiaries of Schlumberger launched and concluded tender offers to acquire three series of outstanding European bonds; $1.3 billion of principal was repurchased for a total cost of $1.5 billion, which included the premium, and issuing and tender costs. The total charge on the tenders was $168 million, of which $81.5 million was recorded in the second quarter of 2003, when the first tender closed, with the balance of $86.3 million recorded in the third quarter of 2003. On December 10, 2002, Schlumberger announced that the Board of Directors had approved an updated strategy for its SchlumbergerSema business segment. The new strategic plan outlook, current business values and the reorganization of SchlumbergerSema constitute significant events that required an impairment analysis to be performed in accordance with SFAS 142. SchlumbergerSema was valued on a stand alone basis; each reporting unit within SchlumbergerSema was valued using a discounted cash flow analysis based on a long term forecast prepared by SchlumbergerSema management with the assistance of a third party valuation expert. The implied multiples yielded by the discounted cash flow analysis were compared to observed trading multiples of comparable companies and recent transactions in the IT services industry to assess the fair value of the reporting units. The fair value was below the book value. As a result, goodwill was written down to its estimated fair value based on Schlumbergers valuation. The impairment of goodwill mainly reflected the prevailing difficulties of the telecommunications industry and the severely depressed market values of the IT companies serving SchlumbergerSemas sector. Certain intangible assets were also identified and written down as part of this process. 25 / SLB 2003 FORM 10 K Table of Contents Part II, Item 7 Schlumberger recorded severance, facility and other costs in an effort to reduce costs at SchlumbergerSema and WesternGeco. These costs related to expenses that offer no future benefit to the ongoing operations of these businesses. During the fourth quarter, Schlumberger also recorded an impairment charge, to reflect a change in the business projections of the WesternGeco business, related to capitalized multiclient seismic library costs, a deferred tax valuation allowance and other costs. The total of the above charges was $3,168 million and consisted of (1) a goodwill impairment charge of $2,638 million; (2) an intangible assets impairment charge of $132 million; (3) SchlumbergerSema severance and other charges of $77 million in response to current business conditions; (4) WesternGeco severance and other charges of $72 million in response to current business conditions; (5) a WesternGeco multiclient library impairment charge of $129 million following a valuation of the library; (6) environmental related charges of $26 million; and (7) a deferred tax valuation allowance charge of $94 million. In December 2002, a credit of $87 million reflecting the gain on the sale of two drilling rigs. In March 2002, a charge of $29 million related to the financial/economic crisis in Argentina. In December 2001, a net credit of $5 million, including an after tax gain on the sale of the former Resource Management Services North American Water division ($117 million). This gain was partially offset by certain charges: (1) a provision of $37 million for employee termination costs, principally in Europe and the US, related to Oilfield Services and SchlumbergerSema in response to the prevailing business conditions; (2) tax reorganization costs of $29 million; (3) a further $20 million charge related to the second quarter estimated loss on the divestiture of certain Resource Management Services businesses following the actual closing in the fourth quarter; and (4) asset write down of $23 million for technological impairment related to certain Land seismic assets in the newly formed WesternGeco Joint Venture. In September 2001, a net credit of $3 million representing the gain on the sale of the worldwide gas compression business, partially offset by an impairment charge relating to the expected disposition of certain activities. In June 2001, a charge of $280 million for the estimated impairment charge from the disposition of certain Resource Management Services businesses. In March 2001, a charge of $25 million for in process R&D related to the Bull CP8 acquisition. An analysis of the fourth quarter 2002 pretax severance and facility charges as of December 31, 2003 is as follows: ($ stated in millions) Severance FacilitiesAmount Amount People Charges $ 94.5 3,492 $ 42.8 Paid in December 2002 32.9 1,643 6.6 Balance December 31, 2002 61.6 1,849 36.2 Paid/reversed in 2003 60.6 1,841 25.1 Balance December 31, 2003 $ 1.0 8 $ 11.1 At December 31, 2003, the Severance balance of $1.0 million is classified as Accounts Payable and Accrued Liabilities and the Facilities balance of $11.1 million is classified in Liabilities held for sale on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. The December 2001 charge included severance costs of $41 million (775 people), which have been paid. 26 / SLB 2003 FORM 10 K Table of Contents Part II, Item 7 Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Schlumbergers discussion and analysis of its financial condition and results of operations are based upon Schlumbergers consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires Schlumberger to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an on going basis, Schlumberger evaluates its estimates, including those related to bad debts, valuation of inventories and investments, recoverability of long lived assets, income tax provision and deferred taxes, profit assumptions on long term percentage of completion contracts, contingencies and litigation and actuarial assumptions for employee benefit plans. Schlumberger bases its estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. Schlumberger believes the critical accounting policies described below affect its more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of its consolidated financial statements. Schlumberger recognizes revenue and profit as work progresses on long term, fixed price contracts using the percentage of completion method, which relies on estimates of total expected contract revenue and costs. Schlumberger follows this method since reasonably dependable estimates of the revenue and costs applicable to various stages of a contract can be made. Recognized revenue and profit are subject to revisions as the contract progresses to completion. Revisions in profit estimates are charged or credited to income in the period in which the facts that give rise to the revision become known as a change in estimate. Losses on long term contracts are provided for when such losses are known and reasonably estimated. Schlumberger recognizes revenue from the sale of software licenses when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, the product has been delivered, the fee is fixed and determinable and collection of the resulting receivable is reasonably assured. Whether the fee is fixed and determinable is assessed based on the payment terms associated with the transaction. Collection is assessed based on a number of factors, including past transaction history with the customer and the credit worthiness of the customer. Revenues from contracts with multiple element arrangements, such as those including installation and integration services, are recognized as each element is earned based on the relative fair value of each element and when the delivered elements have stand alone value to the customers. For sales, either a binding purchase order, signed license agreement or a written contract is used as evidence of an arrangement. Revenue from maintenance services is recognized ratably over the contract term. The training and consulting services (time and materials) are billed based on hourly rates, and revenue is generally recognized as these services are performed. Revenue from outsourcing services is generally recognized as services are performed. The WesternGeco segment capitalizes the cost associated with obtaining multiclient seismic data. Such costs are charged to Cost of goods sold and services based on a percentage of estimated total revenue that Schlumberger estimates that it will receive from the sales of such data. The carrying value of individual surveys is reviewed at least annually and adjustments to the value are made based upon the revised estimated revenues for the surveys. Schlumberger maintains allowances for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of its customers to make required payments. If the financial condition of Schlumbergers customers were to deteriorate, resulting in an impairment of their ability to make payments, additional allowances may be required. 27 / SLB 2003 FORM 10 K Table of Contents Part II, Item 7 Schlumberger writes down its inventory for estimated obsolescence or unmarketable inventory equal to the difference between the cost of inventory and the estimated market value based upon assumptions about future demand and market conditions. If actual market conditions are less favorable than those projected by management, additional inventory writedowns may be required. Schlumberger assesses the impairment of identifiable intangibles, long lived assets and related goodwill at least annually, or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Factors considered important, which could trigger an impairment review, include the following: significant underperformance relative to expected historical or projected future operating results; significant changes in the manner of our use of the acquired assets or the strategy for our overall business; significant negative industry or economic trends; significant decline in Schlumbergers stock price and our market capitalization relative to net book value, for a sustained period. When Schlumberger determines that the carrying value of intangibles, long lived assets and related goodwill may not be recoverable based upon the existence of one or more of the above indicators of impairment, any impairment is measured based on projected net cash flows expected to result from that asset, including eventual disposition. Schlumberger had net deferred tax assets of $632 million at December 31, 2003 which excluded $325 million relating to a certain European net operating loss for which there is a valuation allowance. In assessing the need for valuation allowances, Schlumberger considers the probable likelihood of future taxable income and available tax planning strategies. With regard to pension and postretirement benefits, Schlumberger evaluates the appropriateness of assumptions used by an independent actuary, in particular assumptions as to discount rate, return on plan assets and medical cost trend rates. The assumptions are revised at least annually as circumstances require. Cash Flow In 2003, cash provided by operations was $2.11 billion as net income plus depreciation/amortization and net charges including the extinguishment of European debt and multiclient and vessel impairments, were only partially offset by increases in customer receivables, due to higher revenue, and decrease in accounts payable and accrued liabilities. Cash used in investing activities was $1.49 billion and included investments in fixed assets ($1.03 billion) and multiclient seismic data ($150 million), the purchase of short term investments ($1.15 billion), the net proceeds ($106 million) from the sale of Schlumbergers investment of 9.7 million shares in Grant Prideco Inc., the proceeds from the sales of NPTest ($220 million) and e City ($79 million) activities and the net proceeds ($177 million) from the sale of the Hanover Compressor note. Cash used by financing activities was $558 million with the proceeds from employee stock plans ($172 million) offset by the payment of dividends to shareholders ($437 million), the costs related to the extinguishment of certain European debt ($168 million) and an overall reduction in debt of $126 million. 28 / SLB 2003 FORM 10 K Table of Contents Part II, Item 7 Net Debt is gross debt less cash, short term investments and fixed income investments held to maturity. Management believes that Net Debt provides useful information regarding the level of Schlumbergers indebtedness by reflecting cash and investments that could be used to repay debt, and that the level of net debt provides useful information as to the results of Schlumbergers deleveraging efforts. Details of the Net Debt follows: (Stated in millions) 2003 2002 2001 Net Debt, beginning of year $ (5,021 ) $ (5,037 ) $ 422 Income/(loss) from continuing operations 473 (2,417 ) 494 Gain on sale of drilling rigs (87 ) Net charges 440 3,197 272 Depreciation & amortization1 1,571 1,533 1,876 (Increase) decrease in working capital (228 ) 165 (839 ) Proceeds from business divestitures 299 354 896 Fixed asset additions1 (1,175 ) (1,702 ) (2,453 ) Dividends paid (437 ) (433 ) (430 ) Proceeds from employee stock plans 172 175 122 Debt extinguishment costs (168 ) Sale of Grant Prideco stock 106 Sale of Hanover Compressor note 177 Acquisition of Sema plc (132 ) (4,853 ) Other business acquisitions (44 ) (453 ) Acquisition related payments (70 ) Translation effect on net debt (461 ) (507 ) (6 ) Other 76 (16 ) (85 ) Net Debt, end of year $ (4,176 ) $ (5,021 ) $ (5,037 ) 1. Includes Multiclient seismic data costs. Dec. 31 2003 Dec. 31 2002 Dec. 31 2001 Components of Net Debt Cash and short term investments $ 3,109 $ 1,736 $ 1,618 Fixed income investments, held to maturity 223 408 576 Bank loans and current portion of long term debt (1,411 ) (1,136 ) (1,015 ) Long term debt (6,097 ) (6,029 ) (6,216 ) $ (4,176 ) $ (5,021 ) $ (5,037 ) At December 31, 2003, the cash and short term investments of $3.1 billion and the remaining facilities of $2.6 billion are sufficient to meet future business requirements. Based on forecast 2004 net income, depreciation/amortization estimates, cash from the sale of SchlumbergerSema ($550 million) and Atos Origin stock ($625 million) and other possible business and asset divestitures, and other cash flow components, Schlumberger expects to improve cash flow with an objective of reducing the net debt to $3 billion by mid year and $2 billion by year end 2004. This will largely be dependent upon the business segments operating results and the successful completion of certain business divestitures. In addition, Schlumberger is currently reviewing the feasibility and cost of a buyback of all, or a portion of, the remaining European long term debt and the continued appropriateness of maintaining the effectiveness of its US interest rate derivative. A buyback of the debt and the interest rate derivative becoming ineffective would result in a charge to income from continuing operations in 2004. 29 / SLB 2003 FORM 10 K Table of Contents Part II, Item 7 Financing On June 9, 2003, Schlumberger Limited issued $850 million aggregate principal amount of 1.5% Series A Convertible Debentures due June 1, 2023 and $450 million aggregate principal amount of 2.125% Series B Convertible Debentures due June 1, 2023. On July 2, 2003, Schlumberger Limited issued an additional $125 million aggregate principal amount of the Series A debentures pursuant to an option granted to the initial purchasers. The debentures were sold to Citigroup Global Markets Inc. and Goldman, Sachs & Co. pursuant to an exemption from registration under Section 4(2) of the Securities Act of 1933. The debentures were resold, with registration rights, by the initial purchasers in transactions exempt from registration under Rule 144A of the Securities Act. The aggregate offering price of the debentures was $1.425 billion, the initial purchasers discount was $25.4 million and the net proceeds to Schlumberger Limited were $1.4 billion. The Series A debentures and the Series B debentures are convertible, at the holders option, into shares of common stock of Schlumberger Limited. Holders of the Series A debentures may convert their debentures into common stock at a conversion rate of 13.8255 shares for each $1,000 principal amount of Series A debentures (equivalent to an initial conversion price of $72.33 per share). Holders of the Series B debentures may convert their debentures into common stock at a conversion rate of 12.5 shares for each $1,000 principal amount of Series B debentures (equivalent to an initial conversion price of $80.00 per share). Each conversion rate may be adjusted for certain events, but it will not be adjusted for accrued interest. On or after June 6, 2008 (in the case of the Series A debentures) or June 6, 2010 (in the case of the Series B debentures), Schlumberger may redeem for cash all or part of the applicable series of debentures, upon notice to the holders, at the redemption prices of 100% of the principal amount of the debentures, plus accrued and unpaid interest to the date of redemption. On June 1, 2008, June 1, 2013, and June 1, 2018, holders of Series A debentures may require Schlumberger to repurchase their Series A debentures. On June 1, 2010, June 1, 2013 and June 1, 2018, holders of Series B debentures may require Schlumberger to repurchase their Series B debentures. The repurchase price will be 100% of the principal amount of the debentures plus accrued and unpaid interest to the repurchase date. The repurchase price for repurchases on June 1, 2008 (in the case of the Series A debentures) and June 1, 2010 (in the case of the Series B debentures) will be paid in cash. On the other repurchase dates, Schlumberger may choose to pay the repurchase price in cash or common stock or any combination of cash and common stock. In addition, upon the occurrence of a Fundamental Change, holders may require Schlumberger to repurchase all or a portion of their debentures, in cash or, at Schlumbergers election, common stock valued at 99% of its market price or any combination of cash and common stock, at a repurchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the debentures plus accrued and unpaid interest to the redemption date. The debentures will mature on June 1, 2023 unless earlier redeemed or repurchased. Between June 12 and July 22, 2003, certain subsidiaries of Schlumberger launched and concluded tender offers to acquire three series of their outstanding European bonds. The companies bought back $1.3 billion of principal of these bonds for a total cost of $1.5 billion, which includes the premium, and issuing and tender costs. The total charge on the tender was $168 million. Sale of SchlumbergerSema to Atos Origin On September 22, 2003, Schlumberger announced the signing of an agreement with Atos Origin for the sale of the SchlumbergerSema business. On the January 29, 2004 the sale transaction was completed. As consideration for the transaction Schlumberger received 443 million ($550 million) in cash which included a working capital adjustment, and 19.3 million shares of common stock of Atos Origin with a value of 1.02 billion ($1.275 billion), which represented approximately 29% of the outstanding common shares of Atos Origin after the transaction was completed. Schlumberger expects the result of the sale will be a gain. 30 / SLB 2003 FORM 10 K Table of Contents Part II, Item 7 On February 2, 2004 Schlumberger sold 9.6 million of the Atos Origin shares for a net consideration of 500 million ($625 million). As a result of this sale, Schlumbergers investment was reduced to approximately 15% of the outstanding common shares of Atos Origin. Schlumberger will account for the remaining investment in Atos Origin on the cost method. Business Divestitures During 2003, Schlumberger divested the following businesses: In July, the NPTest semiconductor testing business to a partnership led by Francisco Partners and Shah Management. The proceeds were $220 million in cash. Additionally, the partnership has a contingent obligation to make a further payment to Schlumberger upon a subsequent qualifying disposition or an initial public offering of NPTest by the partnership, under certain circumstances. The results of NPTest are reported as Discontinued Operations in the Consolidated Statement of Income and include a net loss of $12 million on the sale. The net assets were $202 million. In August, the Verification Systems business by a proceed free management buyout. The results of Verification Systems are reported as Discontinued Operations in the Consolidated Statement of Income and include a net loss of $18 million on the sale. The net assets were $17 million. In October, the e City pay & display parking solutions business to Apax Partners. The proceeds were $84 million in cash. The results of e City are reported as Discontinued Operations in the Consolidated Statement of Income and include a net loss of $56 million on the sale. The net assets were $120 million, including a $65 million allocation of goodwill. During 2002, Schlumberger divested the following businesses: In December, the Reed Hycalog drillbits business. The proceeds included $259 million in cash and 9.7 million shares of Grant Prideco common stock with a value of $103 million. The after tax gain was $66 million. The results of Reed Hycalog are reported as Discontinued Operations in the Consolidated Statement of Income. During 2001, Schlumberger divested the following businesses: In August, the Oilfield Services worldwide gas compression activity primarily consisting of the Production Operators Corp. subsidiary. The proceeds included $274 million in cash, a $150 million long term subordinated note and newly issued Hanover Compressor Company shares with a value of $173 million. The shares have a three year marketability restriction. The after tax gain was $52 million. In November, the Resource Management Services North American water metering activities. Cash proceeds were $304 million and the after tax gain was $117 million. In November, the Resource Management Services non North American electricity and water meter, and worldwide gas meter businesses. The net cash proceeds were $256 million and the after tax loss was $300 million, of which $280 million had been recorded as an impairment charge in June (See Charges Continuing Operations). In November, the Yield Enhancement Systems division of Semiconductor Solutions. Cash proceeds were $62 million and the after tax gain was $12 million. 31 / SLB 2003 FORM 10 K Table of Contents Part II, Item 7 Summary of Major Contractual Commitments (Stated in millions) Payment Period Contractual Commitments Total Less than1 year 2 3 years 4 5 years After5 years Long Term Debt $ 6,987 $ 890 $ 866 $ 3,149 $ 2,082 Operating Leases $ 1,653 $ 344 $ 522 $ 366 $ 421 Letters of credit/guarantees outstanding aggregated $788 million at December 31, 2003. In general, the remaining amount of letters of credit/guarantees relate to business performance bonds, custom/excise tax commitments, facility lease/rental obligations, etc. All such were entered into in the ordinary course of business and are customary practices in the various countries where Schlumberger operates. Common Stock, Market Prices and Dividends Declared per Share Quarterly high and low prices for Schlumberger common stock as reported by the New York Stock Exchange (composite transactions), together with dividends declared per share in each quarter of 2003 and 2002, were: Price Range Dividends Declared High Low 2003 QUARTERS First $ 43.330 $ 35.620 $ 0.1875 Second 50.150 36.080 0.1875 Third 52.100 44.500 0.1875 Fourth 56.240 45.460 0.1875 2002 QUARTERS First $ 62.430 $ 49.150 $ 0.1875 Second 59.890 46.300 0.1875 Third 47.400 35.870 0.1875 Fourth 46.850 33.400 0.1875 The number of holders of record of Schlumberger common stock at December 31, 2003, was approximately 24,770. There are no legal restrictions on the payment of dividends or ownership or voting of such shares, except as to shares held in the Schlumberger Treasury. US stockholders are not subject to any Netherlands Antilles withholding or other Netherlands Antilles taxes attributable to ownership of such shares. Environmental Matters The Consolidated Balance Sheet includes accruals for the estimated future costs associated with certain environmental remediation activities related to the past use or disposal of hazardous materials. Substantially all such costs relate to divested operations and to facilities or locations that are no longer in operation. Due to a number of uncertainties, including uncertainty of timing, the scope of remediation, future technology, regulatory changes, the risk of personal injury, natural resource or property damage claims and other factors, it is possible that the ultimate remediation costs may exceed the amounts estimated. However, in the opinion of management, such additional costs are not expected to be material relative to consolidated liquidity, financial position or future results of operations. 32 / SLB 2003 FORM 10 K Table of Contents Part II, Item 7 New Accounting Standards In July 2002, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued SFAS 146 (Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities). The standard required companies to recognize costs associated with exit or disposal activities when they are incurred rather than at the date of a commitment to an exit or disposal plan. Examples of costs covered by the standard include lease termination costs and certain employee severance costs that are associated with a restructuring, discontinued operation, plant closing, or other exit or disposal activity. Previous accounting guidance was provided by EITF Issue No. 94 3, (Liability Recognition for Certain Employee Termination Benefits and Other Costs to Exit an Activity [including Certain Costs Incurred in a Restructuring]). SFAS 146 replaced Issue 94 3. Schlumberger adopted SFAS 146 prospectively to exit or disposal activities initiated after December 31, 2002. In November 2002, FASB Interpretation No. 45 (Guarantors Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others) was issued. It requires certain accounting and disclosures of guarantees to third parties including indebtedness. The interpretation is effective on a prospective basis for guarantees issued or modified after December 31, 2002. The implementation of this interpretation did not have a material effect on Schlumbergers financial position or results of operations. In January 2003, the Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) issued No. 00 21 (Accounting for Revenue Arrangements with Multiple Deliverables). This EITF establishes the criteria for recognizing revenue in arrangements when several deliverables are bundled into one agreement. EITF 00 21 does not allow revenue recognition unless the fair value of the undelivered element(s) is available and the element has stand alone value to the customer. EITF 00 21 also provides guidance on allocating the total contract revenue to the individual elements based upon the available fair value of each deliverable. The implementation of this pronouncement did not have a material impact on Schlumbergers financial position or results of operations. In January 2003, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued FASB Interpretation No. 46, (Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, an Interpretation of ARB No. 51). The primary objective of the interpretation is to provide guidance on the identification of, and financial reporting for entities over which control is achieved through means other than voting rights; such entities are known as variable interest entities (VIEs). FIN 46 provides guidance that determines (1) whether consolidation is required under the controlling financial interest model of Accounting Research Bulletin No. 51 (ARB 51), Consolidated Financial Statements, or other existing authoritative guidance, or, alternative, (2) whether the variable interest model under FIN 46 should be used to account for existing and new entities. Schlumberger does not believe that the adoption of this statement will have a material effect on the financial position or results of operations. In April 2003, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued SFAS No. 149 (Amendment of Statement 133 on Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities) which amends and clarifies financial accounting and reporting for derivative instruments, including certain derivative instruments embedded in other contracts and for hedging activities under SFAS No. 133 (Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities). SFAS 149, which is to be applied prospectively, is effective for contracts entered into or modified after June 30, 2003, and for hedging relationships designated after June 30, 2003. The adoption of this new standard did not have a material impact on Schlumbergers results of operations or financial position. In May 2003, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued SFAS No. 150, (Accounting for Certain Financial Instruments with Characteristics of Both Liabilities and Equity). The Standard specifies that instruments within its scope embody obligations of the issues and therefore, the issuer must classify them as liabilities. The Standard was effective July 1, 2003, and had no material effect on Schlumbergers financial position. In January 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued FSP No. FAS 106 1 (Accounting and Disclosure Requirements Related to the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 33 / SLB 2003 FORM 10 K Table of Contents Part II, Item 7, 7A 2003). The statement permits the deferral of accounting related to the effects of the legislation until the earlier of issuance of final accounting guidance by the FASB or a significant plan amendment/curtailment event requiring remeasurement, occurring after January 31, 2004. Schlumberger expects the new legislation will reduce future postretirement medical costs. Forward looking Statements This 10 K report, the fourth quarter and full year 2003 earnings release, associated web based publications and other statements we make contain forward looking statements, which include any statements that are not historical facts, such as our expectations regarding business outlook, economic recovery, expected capex and depreciation and amortization charges, the capitalizing of multiclient survey costs and the acquisition of new multiclient surveys, the funding of pension plans and related pension expense, the likelihood and timing of and the benefits to be derived from divestitures, conditions in the oilfield service business, including activity levels during 2004 and higher E&P investment, production increases in non OPEC areas, issues affecting the seismic industry, including sales pertaining to Q technology, continued deepwater drilling activity, benefits from contract awards, future results of operations, pricing, future effective tax rates and our expectations regarding the sale of our remaining investment in Atos Origin shares. These statements involve risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, the extent and timing of a rebound in the global economy; changes in exploration and production spending by major oil companies; recovery of activity levels, improved pricing and realization of cost reduction and cost savings targets associated with the seismic business; market acceptance of Q seismic technology; general economic and business conditions in key regions of the world, including Argentina; political and economic uncertainty in Venezuela and Nigeria and further socio political unrest in the Persian Gulf and or Asia; the market in Atos Origin shares; our ability to complete and benefits to be derived from other divestitures; our ability to achieve growth objectives in IT solutions to upstream E&P business; continued growth in the demand for smart cards and related products; our ability to meet our identified liquidity projections, including the generation of sufficient cash flow from oilfield operating results and the successful completion of certain business divestitures; potential contributions to pension plans; and other factors detailed in our fourth quarter and full year 2003 earnings release, this Report and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. If one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize (or the consequences of such a development changes), or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual outcomes may vary materially from those forecasted or expected. Schlumberger disclaims any intention or obligation to update publicly or revise such statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Schlumberger does not believe it has a material exposure to interest rate and currency market risks. Schlumberger manages the exposure to interest rate changes by using a mix of debt maturities and variable and fixed rate debt together with interest rate swaps, where appropriate, to fix or lower borrowing costs. With regard to foreign currency fluctuations, Schlumberger enters into various contracts, which change in value as foreign exchange rates change, to protect the value of external and intercompany transactions in foreign currencies. Schlumberger does not enter into foreign currency or interest rate transactions for speculative purposes. With respect to equity market risks, Schlumbergers investment portfolio includes equity investments in publicly held companies that are classified as available for sale, or restricted from sale, and other strategic equity holdings in privately held companies. These securities are exposed to price fluctuations. As of December 31, 2003, the carrying value of the available for sale and restricted equity securities was $92 million (December 31, 2002: $283 million). The process of determining the fair values of the privately held equity investments inherently requires certain assumptions and subjective judgments. These valuation assumptions and judgments include 34 / SLB 2003 FORM 10 K Table of Contents Part II, Item 7A, 8 consideration of: (1) the investees earnings and cash flow position, cash flow projections, and rate of cash consumption; (2) recent rounds of equity infusions; (3) the strength of the investees management; and (4) valuation data provided by the investee that may be compared with data for peers. Schlumberger has and may continue to record impairment losses and write down the carrying value of certain equity investments when the declines in fair value are other than temporary. Investment impairment charges recognized in 2003 and 2002 were $81 million and $0, respectively. Schlumbergers policy is not to hedge equity price risk. 
 
