FILE:T/T-8K-20040322154426.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION                                                WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549                                                       Form 8-K                                                    CURRENT REPORT                        Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934                                            Date of Report: March 22, 2004                                                        ------                                               SBC COMMUNICATIONS INC.                                (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)                                                        1-8610                                               (Commission File Number)                         DELAWARE                                                   43-1301883      (State or other jurisdiction of incorporation)                   (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)                                      175 E. Houston, San Antonio, Texas, 78205                                (Address of principal executive offices and zip code)                                                    (210) 821-4105                                 (Registrant's telephone number, including area code)Item 5.   Other EventsAs previously announced in October 2003, Belgian telecom provider Belgacom SA/NV ("Belgacom") and its minority shareholder, ADSBTelecommunications B.V. ("ADSB"), agreed to proceed with preparations for an initial public offering ("IPO") of Belgacom.  Inconnection with this IPO, which began today, SBC Communications Inc. ("SBC"). will sell substantially all of its investment inBelgacom.  SBC holds both a direct and indirect ownership in Belgacom's minority shareholder, ADSB.In connection with the IPO, SBC expects to report a combined direct and indirect net gain of approximately$1.0 billion ($700 million after-tax), in its first-quarter 2004 financial results.  Approximately $240 million of this pre-tax gainwill be reported as equity income, reflecting its indirect ownership though TDC A/S ("TDC").  SBC expects to receive approximately$2.0 billion in cash from the disposition of its direct interest.After the closing of the IPO, ADSB expects to hold a small percentage of Belgacom shares, representing the remaining approximately 3percent of SBC's and TDC's original ownership, which are subject to an over-allotment option in the IPO.  SBC does not know if theover-allotment option will be exercised, but if the option is exercised, any shares sold in the over- allotment will be sold at theIPO price.Information set forth in this report contains financial estimates and other forward-looking statements that are subject to risks anduncertainties.  A discussion of factors that may affect future results is contained in SBC's filings with the Securities and ExchangeCommission.  SBC disclaims any obligation to update or revise statements contained in this news release based on new information orotherwise.The securities discussed in this report have not been registered under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933 (the "Securities Act") and maynot be offered or sold in the United States absent registration or an applicable exemption from registration requirements of theSecurities Act.                                                               SignaturePursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on itsbehalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.                                                              SBC COMMUNICATIONS INC.Date: March 22, 2004                                                By: __/s/ John J. Stephens_________                                                                          John J. Stephens                                                                          Vice President and Controller


