FILE:T/T-8K-20051121101017.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             (State or Other Jurisdiction of                     (Commission File Number)                (IRS Employer Identification No.)                                                                           Incorporation)
Delaware
1-8610
43-1301883
      
        Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
Item 2.03. Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant.
 
On November 18, 2005, SBC Communications Inc., now known as AT&T Inc., announced that, contingent upon the closing of its acquisition of AT&T Corp. (which closed later on November 18, 2005), it would unconditionally and irrevocably guarantee the payment of interest and principal for the Euro notes of AT&T Corp. due November 21, 2006, with a coupon rate of 6.00% effective November 21, 2005 and an original coupon rate of 6.00%. The current principal amount outstanding on this issue is Euro 721,229,000 which, based on November 17, 2005 exchange rates, is equivalent to approximately U.S. $845,000,000. Based on the current coupon rate for this issue and November 17, 2005 exchange rates, the maximum potential amount of future interest payments would be approximately U.S. $50,700,000.
 
The foregoing summary of the Guarantee does not purport to be complete and is subject to and qualified in its entirety by reference to the text of such Guarantee. A copy of the Guarantee is attached hereto as Exhibit 4-d and is incorporated by reference into this Item 2.03.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
The following exhibit is filed as part of this report:
 
 
 
 
 
Signature
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 4-d
 
GUARANTEE UNDERTAKING
OF
THE ASSISTANT TREASURER
OF
AT&T INC.
 
I, Charles P. Allen, the Assistant Treasurer of AT&T Inc. (the "Corporation"), pursuant to the authority granted to me in the Schedule of Authorizations of the Corporation, dated as of July 25, 2003, hereby undertake on behalf of the Corporation for the benefit of the respective holders of each Subject Debt Security (as defined below), as follows:
 
(1) The Corporation hereby unconditionally and irrevocably guarantees the punctual and full payment of all amounts payable by AT&T Corp. under each outstanding Subject Debt Security as and when the same shall become due and payable (whether at stated maturity, by declaration of acceleration, call for redemption, repayment at the option of the holder or otherwise, in accordance with the terms of each Subject Debt Security and of each indenture under which such security was issued) (the "Guarantee").
 
(2) The Guarantee with respect to each outstanding Subject Debt Security will continuously remain in effect until the entire principal of (and premium, if any) and interest, if any, on such Subject Debt Security shall have been paid in full.
 
(3) The Guarantee will constitute the direct, absolute and unconditional, unsubordinated and unsecured obligation of the Corporation ranking pari passu with all of its unsecured and unsubordinated obligations.
 
(4) The holders of each Subject Debt Security are entitled to enforce their rights under the indenture relating to such security directly against the Corporation, without first instituting a proceeding against the issuer of such security or any other person or entity, upon any event of default in payment of principal, or premium, if any, or interest, if any, on such security (whether at stated maturity, by declaration of acceleration, call for redemption, repayment at the option of the holder or otherwise).
 
(5) This Guarantee undertaking is enforceable to the fullest extent permitted by law.
 
(6) For the purposes of this Guarantee undertaking, the term "Subject Debt Security" shall mean the following:
 
 
 
 
 
AT&T Corp.'s 7.75% (original coupon 6.00%) Euro Notes due 11/21/06
 
 
 
(7) The Guarantee is effective on the date hereof.
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have executed this Guarantee undertaking.
 
Dated: November 18, 2005
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


