FILE:T/T-8K-20050512094446.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             (State or Other Jurisdiction of                     (Commission File Number)                (IRS Employer Identification No.)                                                                           Incorporation)
Delaware
1-8610
43-1301883
      
        Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
Items 8.01 Other Events
Throughout this document, the Registrant, SBC Communications Inc., is referred to as "we" or "SBC."
SBC is filing this Current Report on Form 8-K in order to incorporate by reference into its registration statements, including Registration Statements on Form S-3 (File Nos. 333-105774 and 333-118476), information about its pending acquisition of AT&T Corp. ("AT&T"). Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Financial Information as of and for the period ended March 31, 2005, derived from the historical consolidated financial statements of SBC and AT&T and adjusted to give effect to SBC's acquisition of AT&T, is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
CAUTIONARY LANGUAGE CONCERNING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
Information set forth in this filing contains financial estimates and other forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties, and actual results may differ materially. A discussion of factors that may affect future results is contained in SBC's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. SBC disclaims any obligation to update or revise statements contained in this filing based on new information or otherwise.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: May 12, 2005

SBC Communications Inc. Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges - Pro Forma Three Months Ended March 31, 2005 Dollars in Millions
(a)  For SBC, undistributed earnings on investments accounted for under the equity method have been excluded.

Dollars in millions except per share amounts
SBC COMMUNICATIONS INC. Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Financial Statements March 31, 2005
The Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Financial Statements presented below are derived from the historical consolidated financial statements of SBC Communications Inc. (SBC) and AT&T Corp. (AT&T). The Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Financial Statements are prepared using the purchase method of accounting, with SBC treated as the acquirer and as if the acquisition of AT&T had been completed on January 1, 2005 for statement of income purposes and on March 31, 2005 for balance sheet purposes. For a summary of the business combination, see "The Merger" included in the SBC Form S-4 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) on March 11, 2005 (File No. 333-123283) including all amendments and supplements to it. 
The Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Financial Statements are based upon the historical financial statements of SBC and AT&T adjusted to give effect to the AT&T acquisition. The pro forma amounts have been developed from (a) the unaudited consolidated financial statements of SBC contained in its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the three-month period ended March 31, 2005, and (b) the unaudited consolidated financial statements of AT&T contained in its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the three-month period ended March 31, 2005.
As of the date of this document, SBC has not performed the detailed valuation studies necessary to arrive at the required estimates of the fair market value of the AT&T assets to be acquired and the AT&T liabilities to be assumed and the related allocations of purchase price, nor has it identified the adjustments necessary, if any, to conform AT&T data to SBC's accounting policies. However, as indicated in Note 2 to the Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Financial Statements, SBC has made certain adjustments to the historical book values of the assets and liabilities of AT&T to reflect certain preliminary estimates of the fair values necessary to prepare the Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Financial Statements, with the excess of the purchase price over the historical net assets of AT&T, as adjusted to reflect estimated fair values, recorded as goodwill and indefinite-lived intangibles. Actual results may differ from these Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Financial Statements once SBC has determined the final purchase price for AT&T and has completed the valuation studies necessary to finalize the required purchase price allocations and identified any necessary conforming accounting changes for AT&T. There can be no assurance that such finalization will not result in material changes.
The Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Financial Statements are provided for illustrative purposes only and do not purport to represent what the actual consolidated results of operations or the consolidated financial position of SBC would have been had the AT&T acquisition occurred on the dates assumed, nor are they necessarily indicative of future consolidated results of operations or consolidated financial position.
The Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Financial Statements do not include the realization of cost savings from operating efficiencies, revenue synergies or other restructuring costs expected to result from the AT&T acquisition. Specifically, the Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Financial Statements do not reflect any impact of a retention pool that AT&T will establish prior to the consummation of the merger, which is designed to retain certain key employees of AT&T through the transition period between the announcement of the merger and a period following the consummation of the merger. The aggregate amount of the retention pool is up to $100. For further information, see "The Merger  Interests of AT&T Executive Officers and Directors in the Merger  Retention Program" included in the SBC Form S-4 filed with the SEC on March 11, 2005 (File No. 333-123283) including all amendments and supplements to it. 
The Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Financial Statements should be read in conjunction with the separate historical consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes of SBC and AT&T which are incorporated by reference in this document.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Financial Statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Financial Statements.
Dollars in millions except per share amounts
SBC COMMUNICATIONS INC. Notes to Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Financial Statements
Note 1. Basis of Presentation
The accompanying Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Financial Statements present the pro forma consolidated financial position and results of operations of the combined company based upon the historical financial statements of SBC and AT&T, after giving effect to the merger and adjustments described in these footnotes, and are intended to reflect the impact of the pending AT&T acquisition on SBC. On January 31, 2005, SBC and AT&T jointly announced the execution of the merger agreement, pursuant to which SBC would acquire AT&T in a transaction in which each share of AT&T common stock, par value of $1.00, would be converted into and exchanged for 0.77942 of a share of SBC common stock (equivalent to approximately 624 million shares, or 19% of the shares of SBC common stock that were outstanding at March 31, 2005). Based on the average closing price of SBC common stock for the two days prior to, including, and two days subsequent to the public announcement of the merger (January 31, 2005) of $23.87, the purchase price would be approximately $14,899. After the AT&T acquisition, AT&T will be a wholly-owned subsidiary of SBC. The transaction has been approved by the board of directors of each company and also must be approved by the shareholders of AT&T. The transaction is subject to review and approval by the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ), Federal Communications Commission (FCC) and various other regulatory authorities.
The accompanying Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Financial Statements are presented for illustrative purposes only and do not give effect to any cost savings, revenue synergies or restructuring costs which may result from the integration of SBC's and AT&T's operations. Specifically, the Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Financial Statements do not reflect any impact of a retention pool that AT&T will establish prior to the consummation of the merger, which is designed to retain certain key employees of AT&T through the transition period between the announcement of the merger and a period following the consummation of the merger. The aggregate amount of the retention pool is up to $100. For further information, see "The Merger  Interests of AT&T Executive Officers and Directors in the Merger  Retention Program" included in the SBC Form S-4 filed with the SEC on March 11, 2005 (File No. 333-123283) including all amendments and supplements to it. 
Additionally, the Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Financial Statements do not include any transaction costs relating to the merger that will be included by SBC as part of the purchase price (as those amounts are anticipated to be immaterial to the total purchase price). For more information on estimated cost savings, and revenue synergies, see "The Merger  SBC's Reasons for the Merger" and "The Merger  AT&T's Reasons for the Merger" included in the SBC Form S-4 filed with the SEC on March 11, 2005 (File No. 333-123283) including all amendments and supplements to it. The Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Balance Sheet reflects the merger as if it had been effective on March 31, 2005. The Unaudited Pro Forma Combined Condensed Statement of Income reflects the merger as if it had been in effect on January 1, 2005.
Note 2. Pro Forma Adjustments
Note 3. Federal Income Tax Consequences of the Merger
The Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Financial Statements assume that the merger qualifies as a tax-free reorganization for federal income tax purposes.


