FILE:T/T-8K-20070424080042.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
 
WASHINGTON, DC 20549
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
Date of report (Date of earliest event reported)
April 24, 2007
 
AT&T INC.
(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in Charter)
 
 
 
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code
(210) 821-4105
 
__________________________________
(Former Name or Former Address, if Changed Since Last Report)
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
Items 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
The registrant announced on April 24, 2007, its results of operations for the first quarter of 2007. The text of the press release and accompanying financial information are attached as exhibits and incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
The following exhibits are furnished as part of this report:
 
 
 
 
Signature
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

 
 
For more information, contact:
McCall Butler
(703) 731-3735
mbutler@attnews.us
 
 
AT&T Delivers Strong First Quarter:
Merger Integration on Track; Advances in Wireless,
Business and Broadband Drive Results
Note: AT&T's first-quarter earnings conference call will be broadcast live via the Internet at 10 a.m. EDT on Tuesday, April 24, 2007 at .
www.att.com/investor.relations
 
SAN ANTONIO, April 24, 2007
 AT&T Inc. (NYSE: T) today reported strong first-quarter results, as success with merger-integration initiatives and operational execution drove substantial margin expansion and revenue growth. Results included double-digit growth in wireless revenues, strength in regional business and continued progress in enterprise services.
AT&T's first-quarter 2007 reported earnings per diluted share were $0.45, up 21.6 percent from $0.37 in the year-earlier quarter. Adjusted earnings per share  which exclude merger-related costs, the impact of merger-related purchase accounting on Advertising and Publishing results, and a gain from a previously announced sale of wireless assets  were $0.65, up 25.0 percent versus comparable adjusted earnings per share of $0.52 in the year-earlier quarter. This marked AT&T's eighth consecutive quarter of double-digit growth in adjusted earnings per share.
"We had an outstanding start to the year," said Edward E. Whitacre Jr., AT&T chairman and chief executive officer. "Merger integration is on track, volumes continue to be solid and we expanded margins in both wireless and wireline.
AT&T Inc. 1Q 2007 Earnings  Page 2
 
"I am very pleased to report that in the first full quarter following our acquisition of BellSouth, we kept our focus on customers and grew the business," Whitacre said. "Wireless service revenues increased at a double-digit pace. In enterprise, we're winning contracts and expanding our capabilities, and revenue trends are on the right path. Regional business continues to deliver solid growth. Our high speed Internet net adds were strong, and video growth has begun to ramp.
"Most important, operational improvements helped drive a major step up in wireless margins," Whitacre added. "This margin expansion reflects reductions in churn and great work by our wireless team over the past two years to integrate networks and streamline systems. With a premier nationwide network, excellent customer service and compelling products in customers' hands and in our pipeline, AT&T has a very promising future in wireless."
Consolidated Earnings
AT&T's first-quarter 2007 reported net income was $2.8 billion, up from $1.4 billion in the first quarter of 2006, and reported earnings per diluted share were $0.45, versus $0.37 in the year-earlier quarter.
AT&T's first-quarter 2007 reported results included: (1) a gain of $409 million, or $0.04 per share, from previously announced wireless transactions with T-Mobile; (2) a reduction to operating income of $301 million, amounting to $0.03 per share, due to the merger-related purchase accounting treatment of deferred Advertising and Publishing revenues and associated expenses; and (3) integration and amortization costs totaling $2.0 billion, or $0.20 per share, related to AT&T's 2006 acquisition of BellSouth Corporation, its 2005 acquisition of AT&T Corp., and Cingular Wireless' 2004 acquisition of AT&T Wireless. More than 80 percent of AT&T's first-quarter 2007 merger-related costs were noncash.
Excluding these three items, AT&T's adjusted earnings for the first quarter of 2007 were $4.1 billion, versus adjusted earnings of $2.0 billion in the year-earlier first quarter.
First-quarter 2007 adjusted earnings per diluted share were $0.65, up 25.0 percent versus a comparable $0.52 in the year-earlier quarter. Adjusted results for the first quarter of 2006 excluded merger-related costs totaling $887 million, or $0.15 per diluted share.
AT&T repurchased 81 million of its shares in the first quarter for $3.0 billion and ended the quarter with 6.2 billion shares outstanding. In March 2006, AT&T announced a plan to buy back $10 billion of its common shares by the end of 2007. First-quarter activity brought total repurchases since the announcement to 165 million shares for $5.7 billion. AT&T now expects to complete the $10 billion of planned share repurchases in the third quarter of 2007. The timing and nature of these repurchases are subject to market conditions and applicable securities laws.
In total, combining dividends and share repurchases, AT&T returned $5.2 billion in value to shareowners in the first quarter.
 
Consolidated Revenues and Margins
AT&T's first-quarter 2007 consolidated revenues totaled $29.0 billion, versus a reported $15.8 billion in the year-earlier first quarter. Excluding effects of the merger-related purchase accounting treatment of deferred Advertising and Publishing revenues, AT&T's first-quarter 2007 adjusted consolidated revenues would have totaled $29.4 billion.
Reported results for the year-earlier first quarter do not include revenues from BellSouth Corporation, which AT&T acquired on Dec. 29, 2006, or from Cingular Wireless, whose revenues before the BellSouth transaction were accounted for as part of a joint venture. To give investors further basis for comparison, in addition to historical reported results, AT&T has provided supplementary pro forma results for 2005 and 2006, which combine revenues from AT&T, BellSouth and Cingular Wireless in all periods. These pro forma results are available at att.com/investor.relations.
AT&T Inc. 1Q 2007 Earnings  Page 3
 
Versus first-quarter 2006 pro forma revenues of $28.9 billion, AT&T's first-quarter 2007 revenues adjusted to exclude the effects of purchase accounting on directory revenues grew 1.7 percent to $29.4 billion.
On a reported basis, AT&T's first-quarter 2007 operating expenses totaled $24.3 billion and operating income was $4.7 billion, up 112.9 percent from $2.2 billion in the year-earlier quarter. Before merger-related adjustments, operating expenses totaled $22.4 billion and operating income was $7.0 billion.
On a reported basis, AT&T's first-quarter 2007 operating income margin was 16.1 percent, versus 13.9 percent in the year-earlier first quarter. Before merger-related adjustments, AT&T's first-quarter 2007 operating income margin was 23.7 percent versus 17.3 percent in the first quarter of 2006. Based on these results, AT&T has raised its previous outlook and now expects to achieve a full-year 2007 adjusted operating income margin in the 23 percent to 24 percent range.
AT&T's margin expansion reflects strong operational improvement in wireless and wireline, solid cost management including progress in realizing merger synergies, and the consolidation of BellSouth results. Merger integration is on track with the full-year outlook that AT&T provided in January of 2007. In the first quarter, cost synergies realized from the AT&T Corp. merger were approximately $600 million, approximately three-fourths expense and one-fourth capital. First-quarter savings from early BellSouth integration activities were approximately $300 million, approximately three-fourths capital and one-fourth expense.
Wireless
AT&T's first-quarter wireless results were highlighted by continued double-digit percentage growth in service revenues, strong gains in data revenues, further reductions in subscriber churn and substantial margin expansion. First-quarter highlights included the following:
AT&T Inc. 1Q 2007 Earnings  Page 4
 
monthly subscriber churn for AT&T's postpaid wireless customer base was a best-ever 1.3 percent in the first quarter, down from 1.6 percent in the year-earlier quarter and 1.5 percent in the fourth quarter of 2006. Total churn was 1.7 percent, down from 1.9 percent in the year-earlier first quarter and 1.8 percent in the fourth quarter of 2006. AT&T achieved this improvement despite increases to churn due to the company's ongoing migration of TDMA subscribers to the company's more advanced GSM and UMTS/HSDPA networks and completion of the transition from multiple prepaid systems to the company's single platform.
AT&T's wireless subscribers increased by 1.2 million in the first quarter to reach 62.2 million, up 6.4 million, or 11.5 percent, over the past year. More than 70 percent of first-quarter net adds were retail, and more than 80 percent of those were postpaid. AT&T's gross wireless subscriber additions totaled 4.3 million in the first quarter versus 4.7 million in the year-earlier period.
On a reported basis, first-quarter wireless operating expenses totaled $8.5 billion, up 3.6 percent versus the first quarter of 2006. Before merger-related costs, operating expenses were $7.5 billion, down $135 million, or 1.8 percent, versus comparable results in the year-earlier quarter. Major drivers of this decline were reduced network and roaming costs, operating efficiencies from merger synergies and other operational initiatives, and reduced customer acquisition costs.
AT&T's reported wireless operating income for the first quarter was $1.5 billion, up 88.5 percent from $808 million in the year-earlier period. Before merger-related costs, first-quarter wireless operating income was $2.5 billion, up 81.7 percent from $1.4 billion in the year-earlier quarter.
On a reported basis, AT&T's first-quarter 2007 wireless operating income margin was 15.2 percent, up 620 basis points from 9.0 percent in the year-earlier quarter. Before merger-related costs, AT&T's first-quarter wireless operating income margin was 25.5 percent, up 990 basis points from 15.6 percent in the first quarter of 2006.
AT&T's reported wireless OIBDA service margin in the first quarter was 37.5 percent, up 640 basis points from 31.1 percent in the first quarter of 2006. Before merger-related costs, AT&T's first-quarter wireless OIBDA service margin was 38.9 percent, representing an expansion of 700 basis points versus 31.9 percent for the year-earlier quarter. (OIBDA service margin is operating income before depreciation and amortization, divided by total service revenues.)
Wireline
AT&T's first-quarter 2007 wireline results included solid progress in merger integration and operational cost initiatives combined with strength in regional business, continued progress in enterprise and accelerated net adds in broadband and video.
First-quarter wireline highlights included the following, based on pro forma revenue and volume comparisons that combine results from AT&T and BellSouth in all periods and include ongoing shifts in customer categories to reflect AT&T's management of customer relationships:
AT&T Inc. 1Q 2007 Earnings  Page 5
 
customers declined 4.4 percent versus the year-earlier first quarter. Excluding CPE revenues and results from acquired and divested assets, recurring service enterprise revenues declined 3.4 percent in the first quarter, compared with declines of 3.6 percent in the fourth quarter of 2006 and 5.0 percent in the first quarter of 2006. In the first quarter, AT&T posted its lowest revenues from CPE sales in the past two years, down more than $90 million dollars versus the year-earlier first quarter, as the company emphasized higher-margin service revenues.
AT&T's first-quarter 2007 wireline revenues totaled $18.0 billion, versus $14.4 billion reported in the year-earlier period, prior to AT&T's acquisition of BellSouth Corporation. Versus pro forma revenues of $18.6 billion for the year-earlier first quarter, wireline revenues declined 3.2 percent.
The primary factors driving the year-over-year pro forma decline in wireline revenues were consistent with trends in recent quarters: access line declines reflecting competition and substitution; pricing pressures in enterprise; anticipated shifts of traffic by major consolidated carriers to their own networks, which affected wholesale comparisons; and the continuation of prior trends in national mass markets, primarily standalone long distance and local bundled services, where AT&T Corp. discontinued proactive marketing in 2004.
AT&T Inc. 1Q 2007 Earnings  Page 6
 
On a reported basis, wireline operating expenses totaled $15.1 billion in the first quarter, operating income was $2.9 billion, and AT&T's wireline operating income margin was 16.1 percent, versus a reported operating income margin of 11.4 percent in the year-earlier quarter.
Before merger-related costs, first-quarter wireline operating expenses totaled $14.4 billion, operating income was $3.6 billion, and AT&T's adjusted wireline operating income margin was 20.1 percent, up from an adjusted 14.4 percent in the year-earlier period. This expansion was driven by solid cost management, expense savings from merger synergies and the addition of former BellSouth operations.
Advertising and Publishing
First-quarter 2007 operational results for AT&T's Advertising and Publishing segment included stable revenues versus pro forma results for recent quarters from the company's extensive print Yellow Pages business and continued growth from its Internet search business, YELLOWPAGES.COM.
AT&T's first-quarter 2007 Advertising and Publishing segment results exclude deferred revenue and expense purchase accounting impacts related to the company's Dec. 29, 2006 acquisition of BellSouth Corporation. Prior to its acquisition by AT&T, BellSouth amortized the revenues and expenses of printed directory advertising books over the life of the directories, typically 12 months.
In accordance with purchase accounting rules, BellSouth's deferred revenues and expenses for all directories delivered prior to the close of the merger have been eliminated in consolidated results.
In 2007, this elimination results in reductions to reported consolidated revenues, expenses and net income from the former BellSouth directory operations, but the adjustment does not affect cash from operations. AT&T continues to manage its print directory business using amortized results. As a result, amortized results are shown in the Advertising and Publishing segment in AT&T's Statement of Segment Income. In 2008, consolidated and segment results will both reflect amortization accounting.
Excluding these deferred revenue and expense purchase accounting impacts, as shown in AT&T's Statement of Segment Income, in the first quarter, AT&T's Advertising and Publishing revenues totaled $1.4 billion, operating expenses were $976 million and operating income was $467 million.
These purchase accounting adjustments reduced first quarter consolidated revenues by
$409 million and consolidated operating expenses by $108 million.
Also excluding intangible amortization and integration costs related to the BellSouth acquisition, first-quarter Advertising and Publishing operating expenses were $744 million and operating income was $699 million.
This AT&T release and other news announcements are available as part of an RSS feed at .
www.att.com/rss
About AT&T
AT&T Inc. is a premier communications holding company. Its subsidiaries and affiliates, AT&T operating companies, are the providers of AT&T services in the United States and around the world. Among their offerings are the world's most advanced IP-based business communications services and the nation's leading wireless, high speed Internet access and voice services. In domestic markets, AT&T is known for the directory publishing and advertising sales leadership of its Yellow Pages and YELLOWPAGES.COM organizations, and the AT&T brand is licensed to innovators in such fields as communications equipment. As part of its three-screen integration strategy, AT&T is expanding its TV entertainment offerings. Additional information about AT&T Inc. and the products and services provided by AT&T subsidiaries and affiliates is available at .
www.att.com
 2007 AT&T Knowledge Ventures. All rights reserved. AT&T and the AT&T logo are trademarks of AT&T Knowledge Ventures.
AT&T Inc. 1Q 2007 Earnings  Page 7
 
Cautionary Language Concerning Forward-Looking Statements
Information set forth in this news release contains financial estimates and other forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties, and actual results may differ materially. A discussion of factors that may affect future results is contained in AT&T's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. AT&T disclaims any obligation to update or revise statements contained in this news release based on new information or otherwise. This news release may contain certain non-GAAP financial measures. Reconciliations between the non-GAAP financial measures and the GAAP financial measures are available on the company's Web site at .
www.att.com/investor.relations
Accompanying financial statements follow. Previously released pro forma comparisons are available on AT&T's Investor Relations Web site at .
www.att.com/investor.relations
NOTE: OIBDA is defined as operating income (loss) before depreciation and amortization. OIBDA differs from Segment operating Income (loss), as calculated in accordance with GAAP, in that it excludes depreciation and amortization. OIBDA does not give effect to cash used for debt service requirements and thus does not reflect available funds for distributions, reinvestment or other discretionary uses. OIBDA is not presented as an alternative measure of operating results or cash flows from operations, as determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Our calculation of OIBDA, as presented, may differ from similarly titled measures reported by other companies.
# # #
 
 

* Results include 100% of AT&T Mobility's actual results ** Includes minority interest recorded as Other Income (Expense) - Net on the Consolidated Statements of Income
*** Equity in Net Income (Loss) of Affiliates includes our 60% proportionate share of AT&T Mobility's results in 2006
  In-region represents access lines served by AT&T's incumbent local exchange companies.
1
  Video Connections include sales under agency agreement with EchoStar, DirecTV customers and U-verse connections.
2
  Wholesale lines include lines purchased by AT&T Corp. of approximately 1.1 million at 3/31/07.
3
  Coin includes both retail and wholesale access lines.
4
OIBDA is defined as operating income (loss) before depreciation and amortization. OIBDA differs from Segment operating Income (loss), as calculated in accordance with GAAP, in that it excludes depreciation and amortization. OIBDA does not give effect to cash used for debt service requirements and thus does not reflect available funds for distributions, reinvestment or other discretionary uses. OIBDA is not presented as an alternative measure of operating results or cash flows from operations, as determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Our calculation of OIBDA, as presented, may differ from similarly titled measures reported by other companies.

EXHIBIT 99.3
OIBDA DISCUSSION
 
OIBDA is defined as operating income (loss) before depreciation and amortization. OIBDA margin is calculated as OIBDA divided by service revenues. OIBDA differs from Segment Operating Income (Loss), as calculated in accordance with GAAP, in that it excludes depreciation and amortization. OIBDA does not give effect to cash used for debt service requirements and thus does not reflect available funds for distributions, reinvestment or other discretionary uses. OIBDA is not presented as an alternative measure of operating results or cash flows from operations, as determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Our calculation of OIBDA, as presented, may differ from similarly titled measures reported by other companies.
 
We believe these measures are relevant and useful information to our investors as they are part of AT&T Mobility's internal management reporting and planning processes and are important metrics that AT&T Mobility's management uses to evaluate the operating performance of its regional operations. These measures are used by management as a gauge of AT&T Mobility's success in acquiring, retaining and servicing subscribers because we believe these measures reflect AT&T Mobility's ability to generate and grow subscriber revenues while providing a high level of customer service in a cost-effective manner. Management also uses these measures as a method of comparing AT&T Mobility's performance with that of many of its competitors. The financial and operating metrics which affect OIBDA include the key revenue and expense drivers for which AT&T Mobility's operating managers are responsible and upon which we evaluate their performance.
 
OIBDA does not give effect to cash used for debt service requirements and thus does not reflect available funds for distributions, reinvestment or other discretionary uses. OIBDA excludes other, net, minority interest in earnings of consolidated entities and equity in net income (loss) of affiliates, as these do not reflect the operating results of AT&T Mobility's subscriber base and its national footprint that AT&T Mobility utilizes to obtain and service its customers. Equity in net income (loss) of affiliates represents AT&T Mobility's proportionate share of the net income (loss) of affiliates in which it exercises significant influence, but does not control. As AT&T Mobility does not control these entities, our management excludes these results when evaluating the performance of our primary operations. OIBDA excludes interest expense and the provision for income taxes. Excluding these items eliminates the expenses associated with its capitalization and tax structures. Finally, OIBDA excludes depreciation and amortization, in order to eliminate the impact of capital investments.
 
We believe OIBDA as a percentage of service revenues to be a more relevant measure of AT&T Mobility's operating margin than OIBDA as a percentage of total revenue. AT&T Mobility generally subsidizes a portion of its handset sales, all of which are recognized in the period in which AT&T Mobility sells the handset. This results in a disproportionate impact on its margin in that period. Management views this equipment subsidy as a cost to acquire or retain a subscriber, which is recovered through the ongoing service revenue that is generated by the subscriber. AT&T Mobility also uses service revenues to calculate margin to facilitate comparison, both internally and externally with its competitors, as they calculate their margins using services revenue as well.
 
There are material limitations to using these non-GAAP financial measures. OIBDA and OIBDA margin, as we have defined them, may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. Furthermore, these performance measures do not take into account certain significant items, including depreciation and amortization, interest expense, tax expense and equity in net income (loss) of affiliates, which directly affect AT&T Mobility's net income. Management compensates for these limitations by carefully analyzing how its competitors present performance measures that are similar in nature to OIBDA as we present it, and considering the economic effect of the excluded expense items independently as well as in connection with its analysis of net income as calculated in accordance with GAAP. OIBDA and OIBDA margin should be considered in addition to, but not as a substitute for, other measures of financial performance reported in accordance with GAAP.
 

Exhibit 99.4
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


