FILE:T/T-8K-20071023075908.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
Items 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
The registrant announced on October 23, 2007, its results of operations for the third quarter of 2007. The text of the press release and accompanying financial information are attached as exhibits and incorporated herein by reference.
To assist investors, pro forma revenues reflecting current customer and segment classifications may be found at www.att.com/gen/investor-relations. These classifications will continue to be adjusted to reflect current management of customer relationships.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
The following exhibits are furnished as part of this report:
 
(c)          Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

 
For more information, contact:
McCall Butler
(703) 731-3735
mbutler@attnews.us
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note: AT&T's third-quarter earnings conference call will be broadcast live via the Internet
at 10 a.m. EDT on Tuesday, Oct. 23, 2007 at .
www.att.com/investor.relations
 
 AT&T Inc. (NYSE:T) today posted strong third-quarter results and delivered its tenth consecutive quarter of double-digit growth in adjusted earnings per share. Results included an increase in wireless subscribers of 2.0 million, further advances in enterprise business trends and accelerated expansion of AT&Ts next-generation TV service.
SAN ANTONIO,
Oct. 23, 2007
 
 We delivered an excellent third quarter, said Randall Stephenson, AT&T chairman and chief executive officer. "Revenue growth continues to ramp, merger integration is on track, adjusted earnings and free cash flow are both strong.
   
 
At AT&T, our goal is to connect people with their world, everywhere they live and work,
and do it better than anyone else, Stephenson said. We have assembled great assets and alliances to help us deliver on this vision. And across our business were innovating and working aggressively to give customers more choice about how, when and where they communicate.
 
Our results show the benefit of these efforts, Stephenson continued. Wireless subscriber gains stepped up dramatically. Our enterprise business has greatly improved momentum. Broadband growth is solid. And our AT&T U-verse TV install rate already approaches our year-end target of 10,000 per week.
 
These accomplishments reinforce our positive outlook for 2007 and the years ahead, Stephenson said. AT&T has a strong management team with an intense commitment to execution. Weve made sound strategic moves to better serve customers and expand our potential in key growth areas. And our strong cash flow allows us to invest in the future of our business as we return substantial value to shareowners.
 
Improved Revenue Growth
 
AT&T reported third-quarter revenues of $30.1 billion, up from $15.6 billion in the year-earlier quarter, prior to its Dec. 29, 2006 acquisition of BellSouth Corporation and the accompanying consolidation of wireless results.
 
In addition to reported results, to provide a further basis for comparison, AT&T provides pro forma results, which combine revenues from AT&T, BellSouth and Cingular Wireless consistently for all periods. On this basis, AT&T's third-quarter 2007 revenues totaled
$30.3 billion, up 3.2 percent versus results for the year-earlier quarter. This increase is up from year-over-year growth of 2.0 percent in the second quarter of 2007 and 1.7 percent in the quarter before that.  Sequentially, versus the second quarter of this year, pro forma revenues were up 1.8 percent.
 
This ramp in revenue growth was driven by AT&Ts double-digit increase in wireless revenues along with improved trends in enterprise services. In addition, AT&Ts regional business revenues delivered continued solid growth, and regional consumer revenues were up modestly. These results more than offset anticipated declines in revenues from wholesale and national mass market customers.
 
 
Double-Digit Growth in Adjusted Earnings Per Share
 
AT&Ts reported net income for the third quarter totaled $3.1 billion compared with
$2.2 billion in the year-earlier quarter. Reported earnings per diluted share totaled $0.50 versus $0.56 in the third quarter of 2006.
 
Compared with reported results in the third quarter of 2006, AT&Ts reported operating expenses were $24.8 billion, up from $12.7 billion; reported operating income was $5.3 billion, up from $2.9 billion; and AT&Ts reported operating income margin was 17.6 percent versus 18.7 percent. Third-quarter reported operating income margin comparisons reflect increased merger-related costs in 2007.
 
AT&Ts adjusted third-quarter earnings, which exclude costs and accounting effects associated with major acquisitions, were $4.3 billion, or $0.71 per diluted share, up from
$2.4 billion, or $0.63 per diluted share, in the year-earlier quarter.
 
AT&Ts adjusted operating income for the third quarter of 2007 was $7.2 billion, compared with $3.1 billion in the year-earlier quarter. AT&Ts adjusted operating income margin was 23.7 percent, up from 19.5 percent in the third quarter of 2006.
 
AT&Ts third-quarter reported and adjusted operating income was reduced by items with a pretax impact of $171 million for legal liabilities, nonmerger severance and other non-recurring adjustments. At the net income level, these costs were offset by income tax adjustments.
 
AT&Ts merger integration initiatives continue on schedule, and merger synergies continue to run ahead of the companys original outlook. In the first three quarters of 2007, cost savings from BellSouth and AT&T Corp. merger integration totaled approximately $2.8 billion, approximately 70 percent expense and 30 percent capital. AT&T continues to expect synergies from these mergers to reach more than $3 billion for the full year 2007, growing to more than
$5 billion in 2008 and more than $6 billion in 2009.
 
Increased Cash From Operations
 
AT&Ts cash from operating activities totaled $9.2 billion in the third quarter and
$24.2 billion year to date through the third quarter, up from $10.6 billion in the first three quarters of 2006. In addition to operational progress, increased cash from operating activities reflects the inclusion of results from former BellSouth operations and the accompanying consolidation of wireless results.
 
 
 
Capital expenditures totaled $4.7 billion in the third quarter and $12.1 billion for the
first three quarters of 2007.
 
Free cash flow after dividends totaled $2.4 billion in the third quarter and $5.5 billion through the first three quarters of 2007. AT&T now expects full-year 2007 free cash flow after dividends in the $6 billion to $7 billion range, up from its previous outlook of $5 billion to
$6 billion. (Free cash flow after dividends is cash from operations minus capital expenditures and dividends.)
 
Dividends and Share Repurchases
 
AT&T continues to return substantial value to shareowners through dividends and share repurchases.
 
Dividends paid totaled $2.2 billion in the quarter and $6.6 billion for the first three quarters of the year.
 
AT&T repurchased 50.5 million of its shares in the third quarter for $2.0 billion and ended the quarter with 6.1 billion shares outstanding. In the first three quarters of the year, AT&T repurchased 229.6 million of its shares for $8.9 billion.
 
Combining dividends and share repurchases, through the first three quarters of 2007, AT&T returned $15.5 billion of value to shareowners.
 
At the end of the third quarter, AT&T had 86.2 million shares remaining in its current repurchase authorization, and the company expects to continue repurchases. The timing and nature of repurchases are subject to market conditions and applicable securities laws.
 
Third-Quarter Operational Highlights
 
Wireless
 
In the third quarter, AT&Ts wireless operations boosted subscriber additions and delivered strong growth in revenues and operating income, reflecting the companys broad network coverage, attractive handset selection and quality customer care.
 
 
AT&T is the United States wireless leader with 65.7 million subscribers, operates the nations largest wireless digital voice and data network, and through roaming alliances around the world provides the largest global presence among U.S. wireless carriers. In the third quarter, AT&T achieved:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Wireline
 
AT&T's third-quarter wireline results were highlighted by further advances in enterprise revenue trends and continued solid regional results including strong broadband gains and an accelerated ramp in AT&T U-verse video growth.
 
The following wireline highlights are based on pro forma revenue and volume comparisons that combine results from AT&T and BellSouth in all periods and include ongoing shifts in customer categories to reflect AT&T's management of customer relationships. In the third quarter, AT&T delivered:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Additional Background on Adjusted and Pro Forma Results
 
AT&Ts reported results for the third quarter of 2006 do not include revenues and expenses from BellSouth Corporation, which AT&T acquired on Dec. 29, 2006, or from Cingular Wireless, whose results before the BellSouth transaction were accounted for as part of a joint venture. To give investors further basis for comparison, in addition to historical reported results, AT&T has provided supplementary pro forma results for 2005 and 2006, which combine revenues from AT&T, BellSouth and Cingular Wireless in all periods. These pro forma results are available at .
www.att.com/investor.relations
 
 
 
AT&T's adjusted earnings for the third quarter of 2007 exclude: (1) pretax integration and amortization costs totaling $1.8 billion related to AT&T's 2006 acquisition of BellSouth Corporation, its 2005 acquisition of AT&T Corp., and Cingular Wireless' 2004 acquisition of AT&T Wireless; and (2) a reduction to operating income of $132 million due to the merger-related purchase accounting treatment of deferred Advertising & Publishing revenues and associated expenses. Combined, these adjustments reduced third-quarter 2007 reported earnings per share by $0.21. Adjusted results for the third quarter of 2006 excluded pretax merger-related costs totaling $412 million, or $0.07 per diluted share.
 
AT&T's 2007 Advertising & Publishing results are affected by the BellSouth acquisition. Prior to its acquisition by AT&T, BellSouth amortized the revenues and expenses of printed directory advertising books over the lives of the directories, typically 12 months. In accordance with purchase accounting rules, BellSouth's deferred revenues and expenses for all directories delivered prior to the close of the merger have been eliminated in consolidated results. In 2007, eliminating this amortization results in reductions to consolidated revenues, expenses and net income from the pre-acquisition BellSouth directory operations, but the adjustment does not affect cash from operations. These adjustments reduced third-quarter 2007 consolidated revenues by $196 million and consolidated operating expenses by $64 million.
 
AT&T continues to manage its print directory business using amortized results. As a result, amortized results are shown in the Advertising & Publishing segment on AT&T's Statement of Segment Income. In 2008, consolidated and segment results will both reflect amortization accounting.
 
As shown in AT&T's Statement of Segment Income, AT&T's Advertising & Publishing revenues totaled $1.5 billion in the third quarter, operating expenses were $1.0 billion and operating income was $464 million.
 
Also excluding merger-related intangible amortization and integration costs, third-quarter Advertising & Publishing operating expenses were $763 million and operating income was $694 million.
 
 
This AT&T news release and other announcements are available as part of an RSS feed at .
www.att.com/rss
 
 
About AT&T
AT&T Inc. (NYSE:T) is a premier communications holding company. Its subsidiaries and affiliates, AT&T operating companies, are the providers of AT&T services in the United States and around the world. Among their offerings are the world's most advanced IP-based business communications services and the nation's leading wireless, high speed Internet access and voice services. In domestic markets, AT&T is known for the directory publishing and advertising sales leadership of its Yellow Pages and YELLOWPAGES.COM organizations, and the AT&T brand is licensed to innovators in such fields as communications equipment. As part of its three-screen integration strategy, AT&T is expanding its TV entertainment offerings. Additional information about AT&T Inc. and the products and services provided by AT&T subsidiaries and affiliates is available at .
http://www.att.com
 
 2007 AT&T Intellectual Property. All rights reserved. AT&T, AT&T logo and all other marks contained herein are trademarks of AT&T Intellectual Property and/or AT&T affiliated companies.
Cautionary Language Concerning Forward-Looking Statements
Information set forth in this news release contains financial estimates and other forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties, and actual results may differ materially. A discussion of factors that may affect future results is contained in AT&T's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. AT&T disclaims any obligation to update or revise statements contained in this news release based on new information or otherwise. This news release may contain certain non-GAAP financial measures. Reconciliations between the non-GAAP financial measures and the GAAP financial measures are available on the company's Web site at . Accompanying financial statements follow. Previously released pro forma comparisons are available on AT&T's Investor Relations Web site at .
www.att.com/investor.relations
www.att.com/investor.relations
 
NOTE: OIBDA is defined as operating income (loss) before depreciation and amortization. OIBDA differs from Segment operating Income (loss), as calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), in that it excludes depreciation and amortization. OIBDA does not give effect to cash used for debt service requirements and thus does not reflect available funds for distributions, reinvestment or other discretionary uses. OIBDA is not presented as an alternative measure of operating results or cash flows from operations, as determined in accordance with GAAP. Our calculation of OIBDA, as presented, may differ from similarly titled measures reported by other companies.
 
NOTE: Free cash flow after dividends is defined as cash from operations minus capital expenditures and dividends. Management reviews free cash flow monthly as an important indicator of how much cash is generated by normal business operations, including capital expenditures, and makes business decisions based on this measure. Management also views free cash flow as a measure of cash available to pay debt and return value to shareowners.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Free cash flow after dividends is defined as cash from operations minus capital expenditures and dividends. Management reviews free cash flow monthly as an important indicator of how much cash is generated by normal business operations, including capital expenditures, and makes business decisions based on this measure. Management also views free cash flow as a measure of cash available to pay debt and return value to shareowners.
 
OIBDA is defined as operating income (loss) before depreciation and amortization.  OIBDA differs from segment operating income (loss), as calculated in accordance with GAAP, in that it excludes depreciation and amortization.  OIBDA does not give effect to cash used for debt service requirements and thus does not reflect available funds for distributions, reinvestment, or other discretionary uses.  OIBDA is not presented as an alternative measure of operating results or cash flows from operations, as determined in accordance with GAAP.  Our calculation of OIBDA, as presented, may differ from similarly titled measures reported by other companies.

EXHIBIT 99.3
OIBDA DISCUSSION
OIBDA is defined as operating income (loss) before depreciation and amortization. OIBDA margin is calculated as OIBDA divided by service revenues. OIBDA differs from Segment Operating Income (Loss), as calculated in accordance with GAAP, in that it excludes depreciation and amortization. OIBDA does not give effect to cash used for debt service requirements and thus does not reflect available funds for distributions, reinvestment or other discretionary uses. OIBDA is not presented as an alternative measure of operating results or cash flows from operations, as determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Our calculation of OIBDA, as presented, may differ from similarly titled measures reported by other companies.
We believe these measures are relevant and useful information to our investors as they are part of AT&T Mobilitys internal management reporting and planning processes and are important metrics that AT&T Mobilitys management uses to evaluate the operating performance of its regional operations. These measures are used by management as a gauge of AT&T Mobilitys success in acquiring, retaining and servicing subscribers because we believe these measures reflect AT&T Mobilitys ability to generate and grow subscriber revenues while providing a high level of customer service in a cost-effective manner. Management also uses these measures as a method of comparing AT&T Mobilitys performance with that of many of its competitors. The financial and operating metrics which affect OIBDA include the key revenue and expense drivers for which AT&T Mobilitys operating managers are responsible and upon which we evaluate their performance.
OIBDA does not give effect to cash used for debt service requirements and thus does not reflect available funds for distributions, reinvestment or other discretionary uses. OIBDA excludes other, net, minority interest in earnings of consolidated entities and equity in net income (loss) of affiliates, as these do not reflect the operating results of AT&T Mobilitys subscriber base and its national footprint that AT&T Mobility utilizes to obtain and service its customers. Equity in net income (loss) of affiliates represents AT&T Mobilitys proportionate share of the net income (loss) of affiliates in which it exercises significant influence, but does not control. As AT&T Mobility does not control these entities, our management excludes these results when evaluating the performance of our primary operations. OIBDA excludes interest expense and the provision for income taxes. Excluding these items eliminates the expenses associated with its capitalization and tax structures. Finally, OIBDA excludes depreciation and amortization, in order to eliminate the impact of capital investments.
We believe OIBDA as a percentage of service revenues to be a more relevant measure of AT&T Mobilitys operating margin than OIBDA as a percentage of total revenue. AT&T Mobility generally subsidizes a portion of its handset sales, all of which are recognized in the period in which AT&T Mobility sells the handset. This results in a disproportionate impact on its margin in that period. Management views this equipment subsidy as a cost to acquire or retain a subscriber, which is recovered through the ongoing service revenue that is generated by the subscriber. AT&T Mobility also uses service revenues to calculate margin to facilitate comparison, both internally and externally with its competitors, as they calculate their margins using services revenue as well.
There are material limitations to using these non-GAAP financial measures. OIBDA and OIBDA margin, as we have defined them, may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. Furthermore, these performance measures do not take into account certain significant items, including depreciation and amortization, interest expense, tax expense and equity in net income (loss) of affiliates, which directly affect AT&T Mobilitys net income. Management compensates for these limitations by carefully analyzing how its competitors present performance measures that are similar in nature to OIBDA as we present it, and considering the economic effect of the excluded expense items independently as well as in connection with its analysis of net income as calculated in accordance with GAAP. OIBDA and OIBDA margin should be considered in addition to, but not as a substitute for, other measures of financial performance reported in accordance with GAAP.
FREE CASH FLOW DISCUSSION
Free cash flow is defined as cash from operations less capital expenditures.  We believe this metric provides useful information to our investors because management monthly reviews free cash flow as an important indicator of how much cash is generated by normal business operations, including capital expenditures, and makes decisions based on it.  Management also views it as a measure of cash available to pay debt and return cash to shareowners
.


