FILE:T/T-8K-20081022080136.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
Items 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
The registrant announced on October 22, 2008, its results of operations for the third quarter of 2008. The text of the press release and accompanying financial information are attached as exhibits and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
The following exhibits are furnished as part of this report:
 
(c)          Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

 
For more information, contact:
McCall Butler
Office: 214-665-1313
Mobile: 917-209-5792
mbutler@attnews.us
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note: AT&Ts third-quarter earnings conference call will be broadcast live via the Internet at 10 a.m. ET on Wednesday, Oct. 22, 2008, at .
www.att.com/investor.relations
 
 
AT&T Inc. (NYSE:T) today reported third-quarter results that are highlighted by strong wireless gains and stable trends in business services, including
DALLAS, Oct. 22, 2008 
continued double-digit IP data growth and a major turnaround in wholesale revenue growth.
 
Wireless growth was driven by a significant step up in retail postpaid subscriber additions, continued rapid adoption of wireless data services and robust demand for integrated devices, led by the Apple iPhone 3G. Activations of the iPhone 3G  which was launched in the United States as an AT&T exclusive on July 11  totaled 2.4 million in the quarter, approximately 40 percent of them to new wireless AT&T customers.
 
I am particularly pleased with the customer response to the iPhone 3G, said Randall Stephenson, AT&T chairman and chief executive officer. The new customers were winning are high-value, with attractive revenue and churn profiles. Were expanding the market, as users adopt more data and media-rich services and access a wide array of applications. These achievements are positive for the future of our business.
 
Across our operations, AT&T continues to execute and deliver solid results. In wireless, we posted a record postpaid subscriber gain. Trends in business services continue to be stable, with a major turnaround in wholesale revenue growth. AT&T U-verse video gains continue to accelerate, helping transform our consumer business.
 
There are a number of things that set AT&T apart. Our company has premier assets, a sound balance sheet, solid cash flow and an excellent record of returning value to shareowners. These fundamentals, combined with an intense focus on execution, provide a solid foundation for AT&Ts future.
 
Reported Results
For the quarter ended Sept. 30, 2008, AT&Ts consolidated revenues totaled $31.3 billion, up 4.0 percent versus reported results in the year-earlier quarter and up 3.3 percent compared with third-quarter 2007 pro forma revenues, which exclude merger-related accounting impacts on directory revenues.
 
Consolidated revenue growth was driven by 15.4 percent growth in wireless revenues and a 16.2 percent increase in wireline IP data revenues, which includes AT&T U-verse services and business offerings such as VPNs, managed Internet services and hosting. Gains in these areas more than offset pressures in the macro-environment and a decline in wireline consumer voice, which was consistent with trends in recent quarters.
 
2
Compared with results for the year-earlier quarter, AT&Ts reported operating expenses for the third quarter of 2008 were $25.7 billion versus $24.8 billion; reported operating income was $5.6 billion, up from $5.3 billion; and AT&Ts reported operating income margin was 17.9 percent, up from 17.6 percent.
 
AT&Ts reported third-quarter 2008 net income totaled $3.2 billion, up from $3.1 billion in the year-earlier quarter, and reported earnings per diluted share totaled $0.55, up from $0.50 in the third quarter of 2007.
 
Adjusted Results
AT&Ts adjusted results for the third quarter of 2008 exclude noncash merger-related amortization expenses. For the third quarter of 2007, adjusted results excluded merger integration costs, merger-related amortization expenses and a merger-related directory accounting effect.
 
Compared with results for the year-earlier quarter, AT&Ts adjusted operating expenses for the third quarter of 2008 totaled $24.6 billion versus $23.1 billion; adjusted operating income was $6.7 billion, compared with $7.2 billion; and AT&Ts adjusted operating income margin was 21.4 percent versus 23.7 percent. AT&Ts adjusted third-quarter 2008 net income totaled $3.9 billion versus $4.3 billion in the year-earlier quarter, and adjusted earnings per diluted share totaled $0.67, compared with $0.71 in the third quarter of 2007.
 
iPhone 3G Impacts and Hurricane-Related Expenses
AT&Ts third-quarter 2008 reported and adjusted margins and earnings reflect revenue growth and continued progress with previously outlined cost initiatives, offset by hurricane-related expenses and effects on wireless results from the iPhone 3G. Impacts from the companys iPhone 3G initiative reduced pretax third-quarter earnings by approximately $900 million or $0.10 per share, and costs related to hurricanes reduced pretax earnings by approximately $145 million or $0.02 per share.
 
Based on third-quarter customer response, AT&T is optimistic regarding continued strong iPhone 3G activations and is confident in the long-term value created by this investment in acquiring high-value, data-centric wireless subscribers. As a result, AT&T expects its dilution associated with the iPhone 3G will run above its previous expectation, and AT&T now expects, depending on volumes, its full-year 2008 wireless service OIBDA margin to be better than 37 percent versus its previous outlook of 39 percent to 40 percent. AT&T expects its full-year adjusted consolidated operating income margin to be approximately 23 percent versus its previous outlook of approximately 24 percent.
 
3
Cash From Operations
AT&Ts cash from operating activities for the third quarter of 2008 totaled $9.3 billion, capital expenditures totaled $5.3 billion and free cash flow (cash from operations minus capital expenditures) totaled $4.0 billion. Through the first three quarters of 2008, cash from operating activities totaled $22.8 billion, capital expenditures totaled $14.8 billion and free cash flow totaled $7.9 billion. AT&T continues to expect full-year 2008 capital expenditures in the mid-teens as a percentage of total revenues and expects full-year 2008 free cash flow of approximately $14 billion.
 
Throughoutstanding.
the first three quarters of 2008, dividends paid totaled $7.2 billion, shares repurchased totaled 164.2 million for $6.1 billion and AT&T ended the third quarter with 5.9 billion shares
 
Wireless Operational Highlights
AT&T delivered strong wireless growth in the third quarter, powered by a significant step up in retail postpaid subscriber gains, robust iPhone 3G activations and continued rapid growth in advanced data services. Highlights include the following:
 
 
 
 
4
 
 
 
 
Wireline Operational Highlights
 
AT&Ts third-quarter wireline results were highlighted by continued strong double-digit growth in IP-based data revenues, a substantial turnaround in wholesale revenues and a further ramp in AT&T U-verse TV subscribers. Highlights include the following:
 
5
AT&Ts total business revenues  comprised of enterprise, regional and wholesale customer categories  grew 0.3 percent versus the year-earlier quarter to $11.5 billion. In the third quarter, AT&T delivered a return to growth in wholesale revenues, extending a major turnaround of trends in this category over the past year. Wholesale revenues totaled $3.5 billion, up 0.8 percent sequentially and 0.7 percent versus the year-earlier quarter. Regional business revenues increased 0.7 percent sequentially and 2.3 percent versus the year-earlier quarter to $3.2 billion. Regional business data revenues grew 8.4 percent year over year, led by Ethernet and IP data services, including managed Internet and VPNs. IP data and Ethernet, which made up 53.6 percent of AT&Ts regional business data revenues, grew 18.9 percent versus the year-earlier third quarter. Enterprise revenues totaled $4.7 billion, up 0.8 percent sequentially and down 1.4 percent versus the year-earlier quarter, reflecting solid sales results with some pressures on voice and data transport volumes. Enterprise fundamentals in terms of closed sales, a strong sales funnel and new service adoption remain solid.
Strength in Business.
 
AT&T further accelerated its ramp in U-verse TV growth with a net gain of 232,000 subscribers in the third quarter, up from 170,000 added in the second quarter of this year. At the end of the quarter, subscribers to the companys next-generation, IP-based TV service totaled 781,000, on a trajectory to exceed its target of more than 1 million U-verse TV subscribers by year-end 2008.
Accelerated Ramp in AT&T U-verse TV Services.
U-verse network deployment now passes 14 million living units. Rollout of Total Home DVR service is under way and expected to be completed by the end of the year. Attach rates for broadband service continue to be high, at more than 85 percent.
 
Driven by expansion in AT&T
16.2 Percent Growth in Wireline IP Data Revenues.
U-verse services and growth in business products such as VPNs, managed Internet services and hosting, AT&T posted its fourth consecutive quarter of strong mid-teens growth in total wireline IP data revenues. Consumer IP data revenues, which include broadband and U-verse services, grew 19.0 percent, and business IP data revenues were up 14.7 percent. IP data now accounts for 44.0 percent of AT&Ts total wireline data revenues.
 
6
At the end of the third quarter, AT&Ts wireline broadband subscribers totaled 14.8 million, up 148,000 in the quarter and 1.1 million over the past year. Customers increasingly use both wireline and wireless connections for broadband connectivity, as reflected in AT&Ts strong growth in wireless LaptopConnect cards and integrated devices. In recognition of this trend, AT&T now also provides data on total broadband connections, which combines wireline and wireless subscribers. Total broadband-capable connections in service increased 2.9 million in the third quarter to reach 20.7 million. (Wireless broadband connections include data users with 3G LaptopConnect cards and broadband-speed integrated devices with a QWERTY or touch-screen keyboard.)
Broadband Connection Growth.
 
Reflecting growth in wireline broadband and
Growth in Regional Consumer ARPU.
U-verse services, AT&Ts revenues per consumer household served increased 4.3 percent versus the year-earlier third quarter. Regional consumer revenue connections (retail voice, high speed Internet and video) totaled 47.5 million at the end of the quarter versus 49.6 million at the end of the third quarter of 2007 and 48.4 million at the end of the second quarter of 2008. Total consumer broadband and TV connections over the past year increased by 1.9 million. Total regional consumer revenues were $5.5 billion, down 3.8 percent. This reflects operational trends and a change in AT&Ts relationship with Yahoo! Inc., which provides portal services to AT&Ts nearly 15 million wireline broadband subscribers. Under the new arrangement, announced in the second quarter of 2008, AT&T no longer pays monthly portal fees and receives a reduced level of shared advertising revenues from Yahoo!
 
AT&Ts reported third-quarter wireline operating expenses totaled $14.8 billion, down 1.1 percent from results in the year-earlier quarter, and on an adjusted basis, wireline operating expenses were $14.4 billion versus $14.4 billion in the third quarter of 2007. In addition to operational trends and progress on cost initiatives, third-quarter wireline cost trends also include expenses of approximately $90 million related to hurricanes.
Wireline Expenses.
 
 
Additional Background on Adjusted and Pro Forma Results
AT&Ts adjusted earnings for the third quarter of 2008 exclude noncash, pretax amortization costs related to acquisitions totaling $1.1 billion or $0.12 per diluted share. Adjusted results for the third quarter of 2007 excluded: (1) pretax cash merger-related integration costs totaling $322 million or $0.04 per diluted share; (2) noncash, pretax merger-related costs totaling $1.4 billion or $0.16 per diluted share; and (3) a merger-related directory accounting impact of $132 million or $0.01 per diluted share.
 
7
Advertising & Publishing results for 2007 were affected by accounting adjustments following AT&Ts late 2006 acquisition of BellSouth. In accordance with purchase accounting rules, deferred revenues and expenses for all BellSouth directories delivered prior to the close of the merger were eliminated from 2007 consolidated results. This elimination of amortizations reduced third-quarter 2007 consolidated revenues by $196 million and consolidated operating expenses by $64 million.
 
AT&T manages its print directory business using amortized results. As a result, 2007 amortized results are shown in the Advertising & Publishing segment on AT&Ts Statement of Segment Income. In 2008, both consolidated and segment results reflect amortization accounting.
 
About AT&T
AT&T Inc. (NYSE:T) is a premier communications holding company. Its subsidiaries and affiliates, AT&T operating companies, are the providers of AT&T services in the United States and around the world. Among their offerings are the worlds most advanced IP-based business communications services and the nations leading wireless, high speed Internet access and voice services. In domestic markets, AT&T is known for the directory publishing and advertising sales leadership of its Yellow Pages and YELLOWPAGES.COM organizations, and the AT&T brand is licensed to innovators in such fields as communications equipment. As part of its three-screen integration strategy, AT&T is expanding its TV entertainment offerings. In 2008, AT&T again ranked No. 1 on magazines Worlds Most Admired Telecommunications Company list and No. 1 on Americas Most Admired Telecommunications Company list. Additional information about AT&T Inc. and the products and services provided by AT&T subsidiaries and affiliates is available at .
Fortune
http://www.att.com
 2008 AT&T Intellectual Property. All rights reserved. AT&T, the AT&T logo and all other marks contained herein are trademarks of AT&T Intellectual Property and/or AT&T affiliated companies.
 
Note: This AT&T news release and other announcements are available as part of an RSS feed at . For more information, please review this announcement in the AT&T newsroom at .
www.att.com/rss
http://www.att.com/newsroom
 
Cautionary Language Concerning Forward-Looking Statements
Information set forth in this news release contains financial estimates and other forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties, and actual results may differ materially. A discussion of factors that may affect future results is contained in AT&Ts filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. AT&T disclaims any obligation to update or revise statements contained in this news release based on new information or otherwise. This news release may contain certain non-GAAP financial measures. Reconciliations between the non-GAAP financial measures and the GAAP financial measures are available on the companys Web site at . Accompanying financial statements follow.
www.att.com/investor.relations
 
NOTE: OIBDA is defined as operating income (loss) before depreciation and amortization. OIBDA differs from Segment Operating Income (loss), as calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), in that it excludes depreciation and amortization. OIBDA does not give effect to cash used for debt service requirements and thus does not reflect available funds for distributions, reinvestment or other discretionary uses. OIBDA is not presented as an alternative measure of operating results or cash flows from operations, as determined in accordance with GAAP. Our calculation of OIBDA, as presented, may differ from similarly titled measures reported by other companies.
 
8
NOTE: Free cash flow is defined as cash from operations minus capital expenditures. We believe this metric provides useful information to our investors because management regularly reviews free cash flow as an important indicator of how much cash is generated by normal business operations, including capital expenditures, and makes decisions based on it. Management also views it as a measure of cash available to pay debt and return cash to shareowners.
 
 
NOTE: Adjusted consolidated operating income margins and wireless service OIBDA margins less the impacts of the iPhone 3G initiative and hurricane-related expenses are intended to provide useful information for investors. Management views the dilution from the iPhone 3G initiative and hurricane-related costs as having a short term impact on the business.
 
 
Find More Information Online:
, ,
Technorati Tags:
AT&T
Third-Quarter Earnings
 
Webcast
 
9

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.3
OIBDA DISCUSSION
OIBDA is defined as operating income (loss) before depreciation and amortization. OIBDA margin is calculated as OIBDA divided by service revenues. OIBDA differs from Segment Operating Income (Loss), as calculated in accordance with GAAP, in that it excludes depreciation and amortization. OIBDA does not give effect to cash used for debt service requirements and thus does not reflect available funds for distributions, reinvestment or other discretionary uses. OIBDA is not presented as an alternative measure of operating results or cash flows from operations, as determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Our calculation of OIBDA, as presented, may differ from similarly titled measures reported by other companies.
We believe these measures are relevant and useful information to our investors as they are part of AT&T Mobilitys internal management reporting and planning processes and are important metrics that AT&T Mobilitys management uses to evaluate the operating performance of its regional operations. These measures are used by management as a gauge of AT&T Mobilitys success in acquiring, retaining and servicing subscribers because we believe these measures reflect AT&T Mobilitys ability to generate and grow subscriber revenues while providing a high level of customer service in a cost-effective manner. Management also uses these measures as a method of comparing AT&T Mobilitys performance with that of many of its competitors. The financial and operating metrics which affect OIBDA include the key revenue and expense drivers for which AT&T Mobilitys operating managers are responsible and upon which we evaluate their performance.
OIBDA does not give effect to cash used for debt service requirements and thus does not reflect available funds for distributions, reinvestment or other discretionary uses. OIBDA excludes other, net, minority interest in earnings of consolidated entities and equity in net income (loss) of affiliates, as these do not reflect the operating results of AT&T Mobilitys subscriber base and its national footprint that AT&T Mobility utilizes to obtain and service its customers. Equity in net income (loss) of affiliates represents AT&T Mobilitys proportionate share of the net income (loss) of affiliates in which it exercises significant influence, but does not control. As AT&T Mobility does not control these entities, our management excludes these results when evaluating the performance of our primary operations. OIBDA excludes interest expense and the provision for income taxes. Excluding these items eliminates the expenses associated with its capitalization and tax structures. Finally, OIBDA excludes depreciation and amortization, in order to eliminate the impact of capital investments.
We believe OIBDA as a percentage of service revenues to be a more relevant measure of AT&T Mobilitys operating margin than OIBDA as a percentage of total revenue. AT&T Mobility generally subsidizes a portion of its handset sales, all of which are recognized in the period in which AT&T Mobility sells the handset. This results in a disproportionate impact on its margin in that period. Management views this equipment subsidy as a cost to acquire or retain a subscriber, which is recovered through the ongoing service revenue that is generated by the subscriber. AT&T Mobility also uses service revenues to calculate margin to facilitate comparison, both internally and externally with its competitors, as they calculate their margins using services revenue as well.
There are material limitations to using these non-GAAP financial measures. OIBDA and OIBDA margin, as we have defined them, may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. Furthermore, these performance measures do not take into account certain significant items, including depreciation and amortization, interest expense, tax expense and equity in net income (loss) of affiliates, which directly affect AT&T Mobilitys net income. Management compensates for these limitations by carefully analyzing how its competitors present performance measures that are similar in nature to OIBDA as we present it, and considering the economic effect of the excluded expense items independently as well as in connection with its analysis of net income as calculated in accordance with GAAP. OIBDA and OIBDA margin should be considered in addition to, but not as a substitute for, other measures of financial performance reported in accordance with GAAP.
 
 
 
FREE CASH FLOW DISCUSSION
Free cash flow is defined as cash from operations minus capital expenditures.  Free cash flow after dividends is defined as cash from operations minus capital expenditures and dividends.  Free cash flow yield is defined as cash from continuing operations less capital expenditures as a percentage of market capitalization computed on the last trading day of the quarter.  Market capitalization is computed by multiplying the end of period stock price by the end of period shares outstanding.  We believe these metrics provide useful information to our investors because management monthly reviews free cash flow as an important indicator of how much cash is generated by normal business operations, including capital expenditures, and makes decisions based on it.  Management also views it as a measure of cash available to pay debt and return cash to shareowners.


