FILE:T/T-8K-20080124080026.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Items 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
The registrant AT&T Inc. (AT&T) announced on January 24, 2008, its results of operations for the fourth quarter of 2007.  The text of the press release and accompanying financial information are attached as exhibits and incorporated herein by reference.
To assist investors, pro forma revenues reflecting current customer and segment classifications may be found at www.att.com/gen/investor-relations. These classifications will continue to be adjusted to reflect current management of customer relationships.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
The following exhibits are furnished as part of this report:
 
(c)          Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

For more information, contact:
McCall Butler
917-209-5792
mbutler@attnews.us
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note: AT&T's fourth-quarter earnings conference call will be broadcast live via the Internet at 10 a.m. EST on Thursday, Jan. 24, 2008 at .
www.att.com/investor.relations
 
AT&T Inc. (NYSE:T) today reported strong fourth-quarter results and reaffirmed its positive outlook for 2008 and beyond. This marked AT&Ts 11th consecutive quarter and third straight year of double-digit growth in adjusted earnings per share.
SAN ANTONIO
, Jan. 24, 2008 
 
Fourth-quarter results were highlighted by record wireless gains, a significant step up in recurring enterprise services growth, continued double-digit growth in broadband revenues, and accelerated expansion of the companys advanced TV service.
 
 
 
Solid trends in these areas and progress in productivity initiatives reinforce AT&Ts expectation for continued strong results as outlined at its December 2007 analyst conference. AT&Ts 2008 outlook includes mid-teens percentage growth in wireless service revenues, mid-single-digit percentage growth in consolidated revenues and continued double-digit growth in adjusted earnings per share.
 
We had an excellent fourth quarter, which affirms our outlook for 2008, said Randall Stephenson, AT&T chairman, chief executive officer and president.
 
Our wireless business delivered outstanding results, with the largest quarterly subscriber gain ever posted by a U.S. provider, Stephenson said. Enterprise service revenue growth continues to improve. Broadband subscribers and revenues continue to grow at a solid double-digit pace. The ramp in our AT&T U-verse TV service accelerated, and we are on track to reach more than 1 million subscribers by the end of 2008.
 
These growth trends, combined with the significant opportunities we have for continuous cost improvements, reinforce the positive outlook we have for our business, Stephenson said. AT&T has a terrific set of assets and an impressive record in terms of executing and delivering on targets, and I am very confident in our ability to drive strong results in 2008.
 
Revenue Growth
 
For the quarter ended Dec. 31, 2007, AT&Ts reported fourth-quarter revenues totaled $30.3 billion, up from $15.9 billion in the year-earlier quarter. AT&Ts 2007 reported results reflect the Dec. 29, 2006 acquisition of BellSouth Corporation and the accompanying consolidation of wireless results.
 
As a further basis for comparison, AT&T also provides pro forma results, which combine revenues from AT&T, BellSouth and Cingular Wireless consistently in all periods. On this basis, AT&T's fourth-quarter 2007 revenues totaled $30.4 billion, up 2.9 percent versus results for the year-earlier quarter. Excluding revenues from enterprise CPE (customer premises equipment) sales, which AT&T began de-emphasizing after the fourth quarter of 2006, consolidated pro forma revenue growth was 3.5 percent.
 
AT&Ts fourth-quarter revenue growth was driven by a solid mid-teens increase in wireless revenues, improved growth in recurring enterprise services, continued growth in regional business and stable regional consumer revenues. Growth across these areas more than offset anticipated declines in revenues from wholesale and national mass market customers.
 
 
2
Reported Earnings
 
AT&Ts reported net income for the fourth quarter totaled $3.1 billion, or $0.51 per diluted share, compared with $1.9 billion, or $0.50 per diluted share, in the year-earlier quarter.
 
Compared with results in the fourth quarter of 2006, reported operating expenses were $24.9 billion, up from $13.3 billion; reported operating income was $5.5 billion, up from $2.6 billion; and AT&Ts reported operating income margin was 18.1 percent versus 16.2 percent.
 
Double-Digit Growth in Adjusted Earnings Per Share
 
AT&Ts adjusted earnings, which exclude costs and accounting effects associated with acquisitions, totaled $4.3 billion, up from $2.4 billion in the year-earlier fourth quarter. Adjusted earnings per diluted share increased 16.4 percent to $0.71, up from $0.61 in the year-earlier quarter.
 
AT&Ts adjusted operating income for the fourth quarter of 2007 was $7.3 billion, versus $2.9 billion in the year-earlier quarter. AT&Ts adjusted operating income margin was 24.0 percent, up from 18.2 percent in the fourth quarter of 2006.
 
AT&Ts merger integration initiatives continue on schedule, and merger synergies continue to run ahead of the companys original outlook. For the full year 2007, cost savings from BellSouth and AT&T Corp. merger integration initiatives totaled approximately $4.0 billion, approximately 75 percent expense and 25 percent capital.
 
Increased Cash From Operations
 
AT&Ts cash from operating activities totaled $9.9 billion in the fourth quarter of 2007, up from $5.0 billion in the year-earlier fourth quarter, and $34.1 billion for the full year 2007, up from $15.6 billion for the full year 2006. In addition to operational progress, increased cash from operating activities reflects the inclusion of results from former BellSouth operations and the accompanying consolidation of wireless results.
 
 
3
 
Full-year 2007 capital expenditures totaled $17.7 billion, free cash flow totaled $16.4 billion, and free cash flow after dividends totaled $7.6 billion, significantly above AT&Ts original outlook of $5 billion to $6 billion. (Free cash flow is cash from operations minus capital expenditures; free cash flow after dividends also subtracts dividends paid.)
 
Dividend Growth and Share Repurchases
 
AT&T continues to return substantial value to shareowners through dividends and share repurchases.
 
Dividends paid totaled $2.2 billion in the fourth quarter and $8.7 billion for the full year 2007. Shares repurchased totaled $1.5 billion for 37.0 million shares in the fourth quarter, and for the full year 2007 they totaled $10.4 billion for 266.6 million shares. AT&T ended the year with 6.0 billion shares outstanding.
 
Combining dividends and share repurchases, AT&T returned $19.1 billion of value to shareowners in 2007.
 
On Dec. 11, 2007, AT&T announced that its board of directors had approved a 12.7 percent increase in the company's quarterly dividend, from $0.355 to $0.40 a share on a quarterly basis and from $1.42 to $1.60 a share on an annualized basis, the largest annual increase in the companys history. The dividend will be payable on Feb. 1, 2008, to common shareowners of record on Jan. 10, 2008.
 
The board also approved a new authorization for the repurchase of 400 million shares, which represents approximately 6.6 percent of AT&Ts shares outstanding as of Dec. 31, 2007. Based on current market conditions and the company's outlook, AT&T expects to complete the repurchases available in the new authorization by the end of 2009. The timing and nature of repurchases are subject to market conditions and applicable securities laws.
 
Fourth-Quarter Operational Highlights
 
Wireless
 
In the fourth quarter, AT&T delivered strong wireless growth with record gross subscriber additions, reduced subscriber churn, solid mid-teens percentage growth in revenues and robust growth in operating income. These results reflect the companys broad high-quality network, attractive handset selection, extensive sales reach and continued improvements in operations.
 
 
4
 
In the fourth quarter, AT&T achieved:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5
 
 
 
Wireline
 
AT&T's fourth-quarter wireline results were highlighted by improved growth in enterprise service revenues, solid double-digit growth in broadband revenues and an accelerated ramp in AT&T Uverse video service.
-
 
The following wireline highlights are based on pro forma revenue and volume comparisons that combine results from AT&T and BellSouth in all periods and include ongoing shifts in customer categories to reflect AT&T's management of customer relationships. In the fourth quarter, AT&T delivered:
 
 
 
 
6
 
 
 
 
2008 and Multi-Year Outlook
 
As outlined at its Dec. 11, 2007, analyst conference, AT&T is confident in its outlook for sustained double-digit growth in adjusted earnings per share driven by advances in wireless, broadband, enterprise, IP data and a new generation of converged services. This outlook takes into account current consumer access line and broadband market conditions and resulting impacts on consumer volumes. AT&T expects to deliver:
 
 
 
7
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8
 
Additional Background on Adjusted and Pro Forma Results
 
AT&Ts reported revenues, expenses and operating income for the fourth quarter of 2006 do not include revenues and expenses from BellSouth Corporation prior to Dec. 29, 2006, when AT&T acquired the company. Nor do they include results from Cingular Wireless, whose results before the BellSouth transaction were accounted for as part of a joint venture. To give investors further basis for comparison, in addition to historical reported results, AT&T has provided supplementary pro forma results for 2005 and 2006, which combine revenues from AT&T, BellSouth and Cingular Wireless in all periods. These pro forma results are available at .
www.att.com/investor.relations
 
AT&T's adjusted earnings for the fourth quarter of 2007 exclude (1) pretax integration and amortization costs totaling $1.8 billion related to acquisitions and (2) a reduction to operating income of $36 million due to the merger-related purchase accounting treatment of deferred Advertising & Publishing revenues and associated expenses. Combined, these adjustments reduced fourth-quarter 2007 reported earnings per share by $0.19. Adjusted results for the fourth quarter of 2006 excluded pretax merger-related costs totaling $624 million, or $0.11 per diluted share.
 
AT&T's 2007 Advertising & Publishing results are affected by the BellSouth acquisition. Prior to its acquisition by AT&T, BellSouth amortized the revenues and expenses of printed directory advertising books over the lives of the directories, typically 12 months. In accordance with purchase accounting rules, BellSouth's deferred revenues and expenses for all directories delivered prior to the close of the merger have been eliminated in consolidated results. In 2007, eliminating this amortization resulted in reductions to consolidated revenues, expenses and net income from the pre-acquisition BellSouth directory operations, but the adjustment did not affect cash from operations. These adjustments reduced fourth-quarter 2007 consolidated revenues by $53 million and consolidated operating expenses by $17 million.
 
AT&T continues to manage its print directory business using amortized results. As a result, amortized results are shown in the Advertising & Publishing segment on AT&T's Statement of Segment Income. In 2008, consolidated and segment results will both reflect amortization accounting.
 
 
9
 
As shown in AT&T's Statement of Segment Income, AT&T's Advertising & Publishing revenues totaled $1.5 billion in the fourth quarter, operating expenses were $1.0 billion and operating income was $507 million.
 
Also excluding merger-related intangible amortization and integration costs, fourth-quarter Advertising & Publishing operating expenses were $790 million and operating income was $683 million.
 
 
This AT&T news release and other announcements are available as part of an RSS feed at .
www.att.com/rss
 
Find More Information Online:
, ,
Technorati Tags
:  
AT&T
quarterly earnings
investor relations
 
About AT&T
 
AT&T Inc. is a premier communications holding company. Its subsidiaries and affiliates, AT&T operating companies, are the providers of AT&T services in the United States and around the world. Among their offerings are the world's most advanced IP-based business communications services and the nation's leading wireless, high speed Internet access and voice services. In domestic markets, AT&T is known for the directory publishing and advertising sales leadership of its Yellow Pages and YELLOWPAGES.COM organizations, and the AT&T brand is licensed to innovators in such fields as communications equipment. As part of its three-screen integration strategy, AT&T is expanding its TV entertainment offerings. Additional information about AT&T Inc. and the products and services provided by AT&T subsidiaries and affiliates is available at .
http://www.att.com
 
 
10
 
 2008 AT&T Intellectual Property. All rights reserved. AT&T, the AT&T logo and all other marks contained herein are trademarks of AT&T Intellectual Property and/or AT&T affiliated companies. For more information, please review this announcement in the AT&T newsroom at .
http://www.att.com/newsroom
 
Cautionary Language Concerning Forward-Looking Statements
 
Information set forth in this news release contains financial estimates and other forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties, and actual results may differ materially. A discussion of factors that may affect future results is contained in AT&T's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. AT&T disclaims any obligation to update or revise statements contained in this news release based on new information or otherwise. This news release may contain certain non-GAAP financial measures. Reconciliations between the non-GAAP financial measures and the GAAP financial measures are available on the company's Web site at . Accompanying financial statements follow. Previously released pro forma comparisons are available on AT&T's Investor Relations Web site at .
www.att.com/investor.relations
www.att.com/investor.relations
 
NOTE: OIBDA is defined as operating income (loss) before depreciation and amortization. OIBDA differs from Segment operating Income (loss), as calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), in that it excludes depreciation and amortization. OIBDA does not give effect to cash used for debt service requirements and thus does not reflect available funds for distributions, reinvestment or other discretionary uses. OIBDA is not presented as an alternative measure of operating results or cash flows from operations, as determined in accordance with GAAP. Our calculation of OIBDA, as presented, may differ from similarly titled measures reported by other companies.
 
NOTE: Free cash flow is defined as cash from operations minus capital expenditures. Free cash flow after dividends is defined as cash from operations minus capital expenditures and dividends. Free cash flow yield is defined as cash from continuing operations less capital expenditures as a percentage of market capitalization computed on the last trading day of the quarter. Market capitalization is computed by multiplying the end of period stock price by the end of period shares outstanding. We believe these metrics provide useful information to our investors because management monthly reviews free cash flow as an important indicator of how much cash is generated by normal business operations, including capital expenditures, and makes decisions based on it. Management also views it as a measure of cash available to pay debt and return cash to shareowners.
 

 
 
 
 
* Results include 100% of AT&T's actual wireless results.
 
 
** Equity in Net Income of Affiliates includes our 60% proportionate share of wireless results in 2006.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
OIBDA is defined as operating income (loss) before depreciation and amortization.  OIBDA differs from segment operating income (loss), as calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), in that it excludes depreciation and amortization.  OIBDA does not give effect to cash used for debt service requirements and thus does not reflect available funds for distributions, reinvestment, or other discretionary uses.  OIBDA is not presented as an alternative measure of operating results or cash flows from operations, as determined in accordance with GAAP.  Our calculation of OIBDA, as presented, may differ from similarly titled measures reported by other companies.
 
 
 
 
Free cash flow yield is based upon cash from continuing operations less capital expenditures as a percentage of market capitalization computed on 12/31/07.  Market capitalization is computed by mulitplying the end of period share price by the end of period shares outstanding as of 12/31/07.
 
 
 
 
Free cash flow after dividends is defined as cash from operations minus capital expenditures and dividends. Management reviews free cash flow monthly as an important indicator of how much cash is generated by normal business operations, including capital expenditures, and makes business decisions based on this measure. Management also views free cash flow as a measure of cash available to pay debt and return value to shareowners.

EXHIBIT 99.3
OIBDA DISCUSSION
OIBDA is defined as operating income (loss) before depreciation and amortization. OIBDA margin is calculated as OIBDA divided by service revenues. OIBDA differs from Segment Operating Income (Loss), as calculated in accordance with GAAP, in that it excludes depreciation and amortization. OIBDA does not give effect to cash used for debt service requirements and thus does not reflect available funds for distributions, reinvestment or other discretionary uses. OIBDA is not presented as an alternative measure of operating results or cash flows from operations, as determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Our calculation of OIBDA, as presented, may differ from similarly titled measures reported by other companies.
We believe these measures are relevant and useful information to our investors as they are part of AT&T Mobilitys internal management reporting and planning processes and are important metrics that AT&T Mobilitys management uses to evaluate the operating performance of its regional operations. These measures are used by management as a gauge of AT&T Mobilitys success in acquiring, retaining and servicing subscribers because we believe these measures reflect AT&T Mobilitys ability to generate and grow subscriber revenues while providing a high level of customer service in a cost-effective manner. Management also uses these measures as a method of comparing AT&T Mobilitys performance with that of many of its competitors. The financial and operating metrics which affect OIBDA include the key revenue and expense drivers for which AT&T Mobilitys operating managers are responsible and upon which we evaluate their performance.
OIBDA does not give effect to cash used for debt service requirements and thus does not reflect available funds for distributions, reinvestment or other discretionary uses. OIBDA excludes other, net, minority interest in earnings of consolidated entities and equity in net income (loss) of affiliates, as these do not reflect the operating results of AT&T Mobilitys subscriber base and its national footprint that AT&T Mobility utilizes to obtain and service its customers. Equity in net income (loss) of affiliates represents AT&T Mobilitys proportionate share of the net income (loss) of affiliates in which it exercises significant influence, but does not control. As AT&T Mobility does not control these entities, our management excludes these results when evaluating the performance of our primary operations. OIBDA excludes interest expense and the provision for income taxes. Excluding these items eliminates the expenses associated with its capitalization and tax structures. Finally, OIBDA excludes depreciation and amortization, in order to eliminate the impact of capital investments.
We believe OIBDA as a percentage of service revenues to be a more relevant measure of AT&T Mobilitys operating margin than OIBDA as a percentage of total revenue. AT&T Mobility generally subsidizes a portion of its handset sales, all of which are recognized in the period in which AT&T Mobility sells the handset. This results in a disproportionate impact on its margin in that period. Management views this equipment subsidy as a cost to acquire or retain a subscriber, which is recovered through the ongoing service revenue that is generated by the subscriber. AT&T Mobility also uses service revenues to calculate margin to facilitate comparison, both internally and externally with its competitors, as they calculate their margins using services revenue as well.
There are material limitations to using these non-GAAP financial measures. OIBDA and OIBDA margin, as we have defined them, may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. Furthermore, these performance measures do not take into account certain significant items, including depreciation and amortization, interest expense, tax expense and equity in net income (loss) of affiliates, which directly affect AT&T Mobilitys net income. Management compensates for these limitations by carefully analyzing how its competitors present performance measures that are similar in nature to OIBDA as we present it, and considering the economic effect of the excluded expense items independently as well as in connection with its analysis of net income as calculated in accordance with GAAP. OIBDA and OIBDA margin should be considered in addition to, but not as a substitute for, other measures of financial performance reported in accordance with GAAP.
 
FREE CASH FLOW DISCUSSION
Free cash flow is defined as cash from operations minus capital expenditures.  Free cash flow after dividends is defined as cash from operations minus capital expenditures and dividends.  Free cash flow yield is defined as cash from continuing operations less capital expenditures as a percentage of market capitalization computed on the last trading day of the quarter.  Market capitalization is computed by multiplying the end of period stock price by the end of period shares outstanding.  We believe these metrics provide useful information to our investors because management monthly reviews free cash flow as an important indicator of how much cash is generated by normal business operations, including capital expenditures, and makes decisions based on it.  Management also views it as a measure of cash available to pay debt and return cash to shareowners.


