FILE:T/T-8K-20080723080042.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
Items 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
The registrant announced on July 23, 2008, its results of operations for the second quarter of 2008. The text of the press release and accompanying financial information are attached as exhibits and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
The following exhibits are furnished as part of this report:
 
(c)          Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

  
   
   
   
   
 
For more information, contact:
Jamie Anderson
Office: 210-352-6973
Mobile: 210-219-1580
janderso@attnews.us
 
Highlighted by Strong Wireless Growth,
Double-Digit Increase in IP Data Revenues,
Further Ramp in AT&T U-verse TV Subscribers
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note: AT&T's second-quarter earnings conference call will be broadcast live via the Internet at 10 a.m. ET on Wednesday, July 23, 2008, at .
www.att.com/investor.relations
 
AT&T Inc. (NYSE:T) today reported solid second-quarter results highlighted by strong wireless growth, double-digit gains in revenues from IP-based data services and further expansion of consolidated margins.
DALLAS, JULY 23, 2008 
 
 
 
 
"Our results demonstrate the great strength of AT&Ts assets and our ability to execute with focus and discipline, said Randall Stephenson, AT&T chairman and chief executive officer. Earnings growth continues to be solid, our wireless momentum is strong, our major growth
and cost-reduction initiatives are on track, and we continue to return substantial value to shareowners.
 
"As we generate sound financial results, AT&T also has taken the lead to innovate and
create great solutions for customers, Stephenson said. Mobility, broadband connectivity
and integrated services that encompass voice, data and video are driving a new world of communications. AT&T is all about deploying and enhancing premier networks and products
to deliver this world to both business and consumers.
 
"The Apple iPhone 3G is a dramatic example of this transformation," Stephenson added. "In the days following our exclusive U.S. launch of this new device, powered by the nations fastest 3G wireless network, customer response has been everything we had anticipated and more. This strengthens our wireless business, and it reinforces our positive view of the opportunities ahead for AT&T and the industry.
 
Reported Results
For the quarter ended June 30, 2008, AT&T's consolidated revenues totaled $30.9 billion, up 4.7 percent versus reported results in the year-earlier quarter and up 3.6 percent compared with second-quarter 2007 pro forma revenues, which exclude merger-related accounting impacts on directory revenues.
 
Compared with results for the year-earlier quarter, AT&T's reported operating expenses for the second quarter of 2008 were $24.3 billion, down from $24.5 billion; reported operating income was $6.6 billion, up from $4.9 billion; and AT&T's reported operating income margin was 21.3 percent, up from 16.8 percent.
 
AT&T's reported second-quarter 2008 net income totaled $3.8 billion, up from $2.9 billion in the year-earlier quarter, and reported earnings per diluted share totaled $0.63, up from $0.47 in the second quarter of 2007.
 
 
2
Adjusted Results
AT&T's adjusted results for the second quarter of 2008 exclude noncash merger-related amortization expenses. For the second quarter of 2007, adjusted results excluded merger integration costs, merger-related amortization expenses and a merger-related directory accounting effect.
 
Compared with results for the year-earlier quarter, AT&T's adjusted operating expenses for
the second quarter of 2008 totaled $23.1 billion, versus $22.7 billion; adjusted operating income was $7.7 billion, up from $7.1 billion; and AT&T's adjusted operating income margin was 25.1 percent, up from 23.9 percent. This margin expansion reflects revenue growth along
with benefits from merger synergies and other productivity initiatives.
 
AT&T's adjusted second-quarter 2008 net income totaled $4.5 billion, up from $4.3 billion
in the year-earlier quarter, and adjusted earnings per diluted share totaled $0.76, up from
$0.70 in the second quarter of 2007.
 
Cash From Operations, Share Repurchases
AT&T's cash from operating activities for the second quarter of 2008 totaled $8.5 billion,
capital expenditures totaled $5.3 billion, and free cash flow (cash from operations minus capital expenditures) totaled $3.2 billion. Year to date through the first half of 2008, cash from operating activities totaled $13.5 billion, capital expenditures totaled $9.6 billion, and free cash flow totaled $3.9 billion.
 
As it invests in the future of its business, AT&T continues to return substantial value to shareowners through dividends and share repurchases. Dividends paid totaled $2.4 billion in the second quarter and $4.8 billion year to date. Shares repurchased totaled 52.6 million for $2.0 billion in the second quarter and 164.2 million for $6.1 billion through the first half of the year. AT&T ended the second quarter with 5.9 billion shares outstanding.
 
Wireless Operational Highlights
AT&T delivered strong wireless growth in the second quarter with solid subscriber gains, continued rapid growth in wireless data revenues and improved margins. Highlights include
the following:
 
3
 
 
 
 
 
 
4
 
 
Wireline Operational Highlights
AT&T's second-quarter wireline results were highlighted by continued strong double-digit growth in business and consumer IP-based data revenues, a substantial turnaround in wholesale revenues and a further ramp in AT&T U-verse TV subscribers:
 
In the second quarter, AT&T further advanced the significant improvement in wholesale revenue trends it has achieved over the past year. Total wholesale revenues were $3.5 billion, down just 0.2 percent versus the year-earlier quarter. This represents a major step up from a year-over-year decline of 8.3 percent in the second quarter of 2007 and marks the companys second consecutive quarter of sequential revenue growth in this category. This reflects solid demand from wireless carriers, Internet service providers, content providers and other customers, offsetting expected declines in local voice. AT&T and IBM last fall announced an agreement that calls for AT&T to become the primary global network management services provider to IBM. As a result, AT&T expects to receive up to $5 billion of additional revenues over the five-year term of the agreement, initially in the wholesale customer category. These revenues are expected to ramp further in the second half of 2008 and in 2009.
Major Turnaround in Wholesale.
 
Over the past two years, AT&T has delivered a major turnaround in enterprise growth rates, and in the second quarter results were highlighted by an 18.4 percent increase in enterprise IP data revenues, including areas such as VPNs, managed Internet services and hosting. Total enterprise revenues in the second quarter were $4.7 billion, down 1.0 percent versus results for the year-earlier quarter, and enterprise service revenues, which exclude CPE sales, were down 0.1 percent. Enterprise fundamentals in terms of closed sales, a strong sales funnel and new service adoption remain solid. AT&T expects to deliver positive growth in total enterprise revenues for the full year 2008.
Continued Strength in Enterprise.
 
5
 
 
 
 
 
6
 
 
 
Additional Background on Adjusted and Pro Forma Results
AT&T's adjusted earnings for the second quarter of 2008 exclude noncash, pretax amortization costs related to acquisitions totaling $1.2 billion, or $0.13 per diluted share. Adjusted results for the second quarter of 2007 excluded: (1) pretax cash merger-related integration costs totaling $324 million, or $0.03 per diluted share; (2) noncash, pretax merger-related costs totaling $1.7 billion, or $0.18 per diluted share; and (3) a merger-related directory accounting impact of $187 million, or $0.02 per diluted share.
 
Advertising & Publishing results for 2007 were affected by accounting adjustments following AT&T's late 2006 acquisition of BellSouth. In accordance with purchase accounting rules, deferred revenues and expenses for all BellSouth directories delivered prior to the close of the merger were eliminated from 2007 consolidated results. This elimination of amortizations reduced second-quarter 2007 consolidated revenues by $306 million and consolidated operating expenses by $119 million.
 
AT&T manages its print directory business using amortized results. As a result, 2007 amortized results are shown in the Advertising & Publishing segment on AT&T's Statement of Segment Income. In 2008, both consolidated and segment results reflect amortization accounting.
 
About AT&T
 
AT&T Inc. (NYSE:T) is a premier communications holding company. Its subsidiaries and affiliates, AT&T operating companies, are the providers of AT&T services in the United States and around the world. Among their offerings are the world's most advanced IP-based business communications services and the nation's leading wireless, high speed Internet access and voice services. In domestic markets, AT&T is known for the directory publishing and advertising sales leadership of its Yellow Pages and YELLOWPAGES.COM organizations, and the AT&T brand is licensed to innovators in such fields as communications equipment. As part of its three-screen integration strategy, AT&T is expanding its TV entertainment offerings. Additional information about AT&T Inc. and the products and services provided by AT&T subsidiaries and affiliates is available at .
www.att.com
 
 
7
 
 2008 AT&T Intellectual Property. All rights reserved. AT&T, the AT&T logo and all other marks contained herein are trademarks of AT&T Intellectual Property and/or AT&T affiliated companies. All other marks contained herein are the property of their respective owners.
 
Note: This AT&T news release and other announcements are available as part of an RSS feed at .
www.att.com/rss
 
Find More Information Online:
, ,
Technorati Tags:
AT&T
Second-Quarter Earnings
Webcast
 
Cautionary Language Concerning Forward-Looking Statements
 
Information set forth in this news release contains financial estimates and other forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties, and actual results may differ materially. A discussion of factors that may affect future results is contained in AT&T's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. AT&T disclaims any obligation to update or revise statements contained in this news release based on new information or otherwise. This news release may contain certain non-GAAP financial measures. Reconciliations between the non-GAAP financial measures and the GAAP financial measures are available on the company's Web site at . Accompanying financial statements follow.
www.att.com/investor.relations
 
OIBDA is defined as operating income (loss) before depreciation and amortization. OIBDA differs from Segment Operating Income (loss), as calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), in that it excludes depreciation and amortization. OIBDA does not give effect to cash used for debt service requirements and thus does not reflect available funds for distributions, reinvestment or other discretionary uses. OIBDA is not presented as an alternative measure of operating results or cash flows from operations, as determined in accordance with GAAP. Our calculation of OIBDA, as presented, may differ from similarly titled measures reported by other companies.
NOTE:
 
Free cash flow is defined as cash from operations minus capital expenditures. We believe these metrics provide useful information to our investors because management regularly reviews free cash flow as an important indicator of how much cash is generated by normal business operations, including capital expenditures, and makes decisions based on it. Management also views it as a measure of cash available to pay debt and return cash to shareowners.
NOTE:
 
 
 
8

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.3
OIBDA DISCUSSION
OIBDA is defined as operating income (loss) before depreciation and amortization. OIBDA margin is calculated as OIBDA divided by service revenues. OIBDA differs from Segment Operating Income (Loss), as calculated in accordance with GAAP, in that it excludes depreciation and amortization. OIBDA does not give effect to cash used for debt service requirements and thus does not reflect available funds for distributions, reinvestment or other discretionary uses. OIBDA is not presented as an alternative measure of operating results or cash flows from operations, as determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Our calculation of OIBDA, as presented, may differ from similarly titled measures reported by other companies.
We believe these measures are relevant and useful information to our investors as they are part of AT&T Mobilitys internal management reporting and planning processes and are important metrics that AT&T Mobilitys management uses to evaluate the operating performance of its regional operations. These measures are used by management as a gauge of AT&T Mobilitys success in acquiring, retaining and servicing subscribers because we believe these measures reflect AT&T Mobilitys ability to generate and grow subscriber revenues while providing a high level of customer service in a cost-effective manner. Management also uses these measures as a method of comparing AT&T Mobilitys performance with that of many of its competitors. The financial and operating metrics which affect OIBDA include the key revenue and expense drivers for which AT&T Mobilitys operating managers are responsible and upon which we evaluate their performance.
OIBDA does not give effect to cash used for debt service requirements and thus does not reflect available funds for distributions, reinvestment or other discretionary uses. OIBDA excludes other, net, minority interest in earnings of consolidated entities and equity in net income (loss) of affiliates, as these do not reflect the operating results of AT&T Mobilitys subscriber base and its national footprint that AT&T Mobility utilizes to obtain and service its customers. Equity in net income (loss) of affiliates represents AT&T Mobilitys proportionate share of the net income (loss) of affiliates in which it exercises significant influence, but does not control. As AT&T Mobility does not control these entities, our management excludes these results when evaluating the performance of our primary operations. OIBDA excludes interest expense and the provision for income taxes. Excluding these items eliminates the expenses associated with its capitalization and tax structures. Finally, OIBDA excludes depreciation and amortization, in order to eliminate the impact of capital investments.
We believe OIBDA as a percentage of service revenues to be a more relevant measure of AT&T Mobilitys operating margin than OIBDA as a percentage of total revenue. AT&T Mobility generally subsidizes a portion of its handset sales, all of which are recognized in the period in which AT&T Mobility sells the handset. This results in a disproportionate impact on its margin in that period. Management views this equipment subsidy as a cost to acquire or retain a subscriber, which is recovered through the ongoing service revenue that is generated by the subscriber. AT&T Mobility also uses service revenues to calculate margin to facilitate comparison, both internally and externally with its competitors, as they calculate their margins using services revenue as well.
There are material limitations to using these non-GAAP financial measures. OIBDA and OIBDA margin, as we have defined them, may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. Furthermore, these performance measures do not take into account certain significant items, including depreciation and amortization, interest expense, tax expense and equity in net income (loss) of affiliates, which directly affect AT&T Mobilitys net income. Management compensates for these limitations by carefully analyzing how its competitors present performance measures that are similar in nature to OIBDA as we present it, and considering the economic effect of the excluded expense items independently as well as in connection with its analysis of net income as calculated in accordance with GAAP. OIBDA and OIBDA margin should be considered in addition to, but not as a substitute for, other measures of financial performance reported in accordance with GAAP.
 
 
 
FREE CASH FLOW DISCUSSION
Free cash flow is defined as cash from operations minus capital expenditures.  Free cash flow after dividends is defined as cash from operations minus capital expenditures and dividends.  Free cash flow yield is defined as cash from continuing operations less capital expenditures as a percentage of market capitalization computed on the last trading day of the quarter.  Market capitalization is computed by multiplying the end of period stock price by the end of period shares outstanding.  We believe these metrics provide useful information to our investors because management monthly reviews free cash flow as an important indicator of how much cash is generated by normal business operations, including capital expenditures, and makes decisions based on it.  Management also views it as a measure of cash available to pay debt and return cash to shareowners.


