FILE:T/T-8K-20080422081844.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
Items 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
The registrant announced on April 22, 2008, its results of operations for the first quarter of 2008. The text of the press release and accompanying financial information are attached as exhibits and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
The following exhibits are furnished as part of this report:
 
(c)          Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

 
      
   
      
   
   
     
   
   
For more information, contact:
McCall Butler
Office: 212-453-2354
Mobile: 917-209-5792
mbutler@attnews.us
 
 
Broadband and Enterprise Services
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note: AT&T's first-quarter earnings conference call will be broadcast live via the Internet at 10 a.m. ET on Tuesday, April 22, 2008, at .
www.att.com/investor.relations
 
AT&T Inc. (NYSE:T) today reported strong first-quarter results, highlighted by a significant ramp in consolidated revenue growth, led by improved results in wireless and enterprise, and further expansion of wireless and consolidated margins. This marked AT&Ts 12th consecutive quarter of double-digit growth in adjusted earnings
SAN ANTONIO
, April 22, 2008 
per share.
 
 
 
 
 
 
We delivered an excellent first quarter and a solid start to the year, said Randall Stephenson, AT&T chairman and chief executive officer. Revenue growth continues to ramp, we have good momentum across key growth areas, major cost initiatives are on track, and our operational results reinforce the confidence we have in our outlook.
 
AT&Ts goal is to innovate and lead in a communications world driven by mobility and interactivity, Stephenson said. To that end, as we deliver strong earnings and return substantial value to shareowners, we are also taking important steps to expand our networks and product sets to drive continued growth in wireless, broadband and IP-based services.
 
AT&T is moving quickly to create the next generation of wireless, Stephenson said. The future of wireless has never been more promising, and I am very pleased that through our transaction with Aloha Partners and our successful bids in the recently completed auction, we have assembled the industrys premier, high-quality wireless spectrum position. This spectrum will provide a terrific foundation for new wireless and integrated services, and it significantly advances AT&Ts long-term growth potential.
 
Reported Results: Ramp in Revenue Growth, Net Income Growth
 
For the quarter ended March 31, 2008, AT&Ts revenues totaled $30.7 billion, up 6.1 percent versus reported results in the year-earlier quarter and up 4.6 percent compared with first-quarter 2007 pro forma revenues, which exclude merger-related accounting impacts on directory revenues. This marks a substantial step up from year-over-year pro forma revenue growth of 2.9 percent in the fourth quarter of 2007 and 1.7 percent in the first quarter of 2007.
 
Compared with results for the year-earlier first quarter, AT&Ts reported operating expenses for the first quarter of 2008 were $24.8 billion, up from $24.3 billion; reported operating income was $6.0 billion, up from $4.7 billion; and AT&T's reported operating income margin was 19.5 percent, up from 16.1 percent.
 
AT&T's reported first-quarter 2008 net income totaled $3.5 billion, up 21.5 percent from $2.8 billion in the year-earlier first quarter, and reported earnings per diluted share totaled $0.57, up 26.7 percent from $0.45 in the first quarter of 2007.
 
 
2
 
 
 
Double-Digit Growth in Adjusted EPS
 
AT&T's adjusted results for the first quarter of 2008 exclude merger-related amortization expenses and costs associated with a workforce reduction. Adjusted results for the first quarter of 2007 excluded merger-related costs and accounting effects as well as gains from wireless transactions.
 
Compared with results for the year-earlier first quarter, AT&T's adjusted operating expenses for the first quarter of 2008 totaled $23.2 billion, versus $22.4 billion; adjusted operating income was $7.6 billion, up from $7.0 billion; and AT&Ts adjusted operating income margin was 24.6 percent, up from 23.7 percent.
 
AT&T's adjusted first-quarter 2008 net income totaled $4.5 billion, up 10.3 percent from $4.1 billion in the year-earlier first quarter, and adjusted earnings per diluted share totaled $0.74, up 13.8 percent from $0.65 in the first quarter of 2007.
 
AT&T's merger integration and operational cost initiatives continue on schedule. For the full year 2007, operating expense savings from BellSouth and AT&T Corp. merger integration efforts and previously outlined operational initiatives totaled approximately $3.9 billion. AT&T expects these expense savings to grow in 2008 by more than $2 billion dollars.
 
Cash From Operations, Share Repurchases
 
Compared with results in the year-earlier first quarter, AT&T's cash from operating activities for the first quarter of 2008 totaled $5.0 billion, up from $4.6 billion; capital expenditures totaled $4.2 billion, versus $3.3 billion; and free cash flow (cash from operations minus capital expenditures) totaled $0.7 billion, compared with $1.3 billion.
 
As it invests in the future of its business, AT&T continues to return substantial value to shareowners through dividends and share repurchases. In the first quarter, dividends paid totaled $2.4 billion and shares repurchased totaled 111.6 million for $4.1 billion. AT&T ended the quarter with 5.9 billion shares outstanding.
 
 
3
 
 
 
First-Quarter Operational Highlights
 
Wireless
 
AT&T delivered strong wireless growth in the first quarter, reflecting the company's high-quality network, innovative services, attractive handset selection, extensive sales reach and continued improvements in operations. First-quarter 2008 results included:
 
 
 
 
 
 
4
 
 
 
 
 
Wireline
 
AT&T's first-quarter wireline results were highlighted by further improvement in enterprise revenue growth, a solid double-digit increase in broadband revenues and a continued strong ramp in AT&T U-verse TV subscribers. Results included:
 
 
 
5
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6
 
 
 
Additional Background on Adjusted and Pro Forma Results
 
AT&T's adjusted earnings for the first quarter of 2008 exclude: (1) noncash, pretax amortization costs related to acquisitions totaling $1.2 billion, or $0.13 per diluted share, and (2) a charge of $374 million, or $0.04 per diluted share, associated with a workforce reduction previously disclosed in a Form 8-K filing.Adjusted results for the first quarter of 2007 excluded: (1) pretax merger-related integration costs totaling $245 million, or $0.02 per diluted share; (2) noncash, pretax merger-related costs totaling $1.8 billion, or $0.18 per diluted share; (3) a merger-related directory accounting impact of $301 million, or $0.03 per diluted share; and (4) a gain of $409 million, or $0.04 per share, from wireless transactions.
 
 
Advertising & Publishing results for 2007 were affected by accounting adjustments following AT&Ts late 2006 acquisition of BellSouth. In accordance with purchase accounting rules, deferred revenues and expenses for all BellSouth directories delivered prior to the close of the merger were eliminated from 2007 consolidated results. This elimination of amortizations reduced first-quarter 2007 consolidated revenues by $409 million and consolidated operating expenses by $108 million.
 
AT&T manages its print directory business using amortized results. As a result, 2007 amortized results are shown in the Advertising & Publishing segment on AT&T's Statement of Segment Income. In 2008, both consolidated and segment results reflect amortization accounting.
 
Find More Information Online:
 
 
 
7
 
 
Technorati Tags
:  
AT&T
,
First-Quarter Earnings
 
About AT&T
 
AT&T Inc. (NYSE:T) is a premier communications holding company. Its subsidiaries and affiliates, AT&T operating companies, are the providers of AT&T services in the United States and around the world. Among their offerings are the world's most advanced IP-based business communications services and the nation's leading wireless, high speed Internet access and voice services. In domestic markets, AT&T is known for the directory publishing and advertising sales leadership of its Yellow Pages and YELLOWPAGES.COM organizations, and the AT&T brand is licensed to innovators in such fields as communications equipment. As part of its three-screen integration strategy, AT&T is expanding its TV entertainment offerings. Additional information about AT&T Inc. and the products and services provided by AT&T subsidiaries and affiliates is available at .
http://www.att.com
 
 2008 AT&T Intellectual Property. All rights reserved. AT&T, the AT&T logo and all other marks contained herein are trademarks of AT&T Intellectual Property and/or AT&T affiliated companies.
 
Note: This AT&T news release and other announcements are available as part of an RSS feed at . For more information, please review this announcement in the AT&T newsroom at .
www.att.com/rss
http://www.att.com/newsroom
Cautionary Language Concerning Forward-Looking Statements
 
Information set forth in this news release contains financial estimates and other forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties, and actual results may differ materially. A discussion of factors that may affect future results is contained in AT&T's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. AT&T disclaims any obligation to update or revise statements contained in this news release based on new information or otherwise. This news release may contain certain non-GAAP financial measures. Reconciliations between the non-GAAP financial measures and the GAAP financial measures are available on the company's Web site at . Accompanying financial statements follow.
www.att.com/investor.relations
 
NOTE: OIBDA is defined as operating income (loss) before depreciation and amortization. OIBDA differs from Segment Operating Income (loss), as calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), in that it excludes depreciation and amortization. OIBDA does not give effect to cash used for debt service requirements and thus does not reflect available funds for distributions, reinvestment or other discretionary uses. OIBDA is not presented as an alternative measure of operating results or cash flows from operations, as determined in accordance with GAAP. Our calculation of OIBDA, as presented, may differ from similarly titled measures reported by other companies.
 
NOTE: Free cash flow is defined as cash from operations minus capital expenditures. Free cash flow yield is defined as cash from continuing operations less capital expenditures as a percentage of market capitalization computed on the last trading day of the quarter. Market capitalization is computed by multiplying the end of period stock price by the end of period shares outstanding. We believe these metrics provide useful information to our investors because management monthly reviews free cash flow as an important indicator of how much cash is generated by normal business operations, including capital expenditures, and makes decisions based on it. Management also views it as a measure of cash available to pay debt and return cash to shareowners.
 
8

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.3
OIBDA DISCUSSION
OIBDA is defined as operating income (loss) before depreciation and amortization. OIBDA margin is calculated as OIBDA divided by service revenues. OIBDA differs from Segment Operating Income (Loss), as calculated in accordance with GAAP, in that it excludes depreciation and amortization. OIBDA does not give effect to cash used for debt service requirements and thus does not reflect available funds for distributions, reinvestment or other discretionary uses. OIBDA is not presented as an alternative measure of operating results or cash flows from operations, as determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Our calculation of OIBDA, as presented, may differ from similarly titled measures reported by other companies.
We believe these measures are relevant and useful information to our investors as they are part of AT&T Mobilitys internal management reporting and planning processes and are important metrics that AT&T Mobilitys management uses to evaluate the operating performance of its regional operations. These measures are used by management as a gauge of AT&T Mobilitys success in acquiring, retaining and servicing subscribers because we believe these measures reflect AT&T Mobilitys ability to generate and grow subscriber revenues while providing a high level of customer service in a cost-effective manner. Management also uses these measures as a method of comparing AT&T Mobilitys performance with that of many of its competitors. The financial and operating metrics which affect OIBDA include the key revenue and expense drivers for which AT&T Mobilitys operating managers are responsible and upon which we evaluate their performance.
OIBDA does not give effect to cash used for debt service requirements and thus does not reflect available funds for distributions, reinvestment or other discretionary uses. OIBDA excludes other, net, minority interest in earnings of consolidated entities and equity in net income (loss) of affiliates, as these do not reflect the operating results of AT&T Mobilitys subscriber base and its national footprint that AT&T Mobility utilizes to obtain and service its customers. Equity in net income (loss) of affiliates represents AT&T Mobilitys proportionate share of the net income (loss) of affiliates in which it exercises significant influence, but does not control. As AT&T Mobility does not control these entities, our management excludes these results when evaluating the performance of our primary operations. OIBDA excludes interest expense and the provision for income taxes. Excluding these items eliminates the expenses associated with its capitalization and tax structures. Finally, OIBDA excludes depreciation and amortization, in order to eliminate the impact of capital investments.
We believe OIBDA as a percentage of service revenues to be a more relevant measure of AT&T Mobilitys operating margin than OIBDA as a percentage of total revenue. AT&T Mobility generally subsidizes a portion of its handset sales, all of which are recognized in the period in which AT&T Mobility sells the handset. This results in a disproportionate impact on its margin in that period. Management views this equipment subsidy as a cost to acquire or retain a subscriber, which is recovered through the ongoing service revenue that is generated by the subscriber. AT&T Mobility also uses service revenues to calculate margin to facilitate comparison, both internally and externally with its competitors, as they calculate their margins using services revenue as well.
There are material limitations to using these non-GAAP financial measures. OIBDA and OIBDA margin, as we have defined them, may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. Furthermore, these performance measures do not take into account certain significant items, including depreciation and amortization, interest expense, tax expense and equity in net income (loss) of affiliates, which directly affect AT&T Mobilitys net income. Management compensates for these limitations by carefully analyzing how its competitors present performance measures that are similar in nature to OIBDA as we present it, and considering the economic effect of the excluded expense items independently as well as in connection with its analysis of net income as calculated in accordance with GAAP. OIBDA and OIBDA margin should be considered in addition to, but not as a substitute for, other measures of financial performance reported in accordance with GAAP.
 
 
 
FREE CASH FLOW DISCUSSION
Free cash flow is defined as cash from operations minus capital expenditures.  Free cash flow after dividends is defined as cash from operations minus capital expenditures and dividends.  Free cash flow yield is defined as cash from continuing operations less capital expenditures as a percentage of market capitalization computed on the last trading day of the quarter.  Market capitalization is computed by multiplying the end of period stock price by the end of period shares outstanding.  We believe these metrics provide useful information to our investors because management monthly reviews free cash flow as an important indicator of how much cash is generated by normal business operations, including capital expenditures, and makes decisions based on it.  Management also views it as a measure of cash available to pay debt and return cash to shareowners.


