FILE:T/T-8K-20080321085921.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
Item 1.01.  Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
Throughout this document, AT&T Inc. is referred to as AT&T.
On March 20, 2008, the Federal Communications Commission ("FCC") announced that AT&T was the winning bidder of 227 B Block 700 MHz Band wireless spectrum licenses in an auction conducted by the FCC.  AT&T must provide to the FCC an initial down payment of $1.327 billion by ten business days from March 20, 2008, of which $500 million was paid prior to the start of the auction, and pay to the FCC the remaining balance of $5.309 billion on or before twenty business days from March 20, 2008.  AT&T intends to fund the purchase price using a combination of funds from operations and either short-term or long-term debt, depending on market conditions.
 
 
Item 7.01.  Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
AT&Ts statement on the FCCs announced is attached to this Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1.
results of auction 73
 
 
The information provided pursuant to this Item 7.01 is "furnished" and shall not be deemed to be "filed" with the Securities and Exchange Commission or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended or the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in any such filings.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
99.1    Statement dated March 20, 2008
  
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

For more information, contact:
Fletcher Cook                                           Mark Siegel
 
Phone: 415-318-4204                                 Phone:  404-236-6312
E-mail:                     E-mail:  
fcook@attnews.com
mark.a.siegel@att.co
m
  AT&T (NYSE:T) completed successful bids for prime B Block spectrum in the FCC auction.  Combined with the Aloha Partners transaction, which closed earlier this year, AT&T has supplemented its holding of high-quality spectrum and continues to have a leading spectrum position in the industry.
SAN ANTONIO, March 20, 2008 
 
AT&Ts strong spectrum holdings position the company to further enhance the quality and reliability of existing wireless broadband and voice services, and to set the foundation for new-generation wireless broadband technologies and services. said Ralph de la Vega, president and CEO of AT&Ts wireless unit.
 
Upon final award of this spectrum, the companys 700 MHz spectrum will cover 100 percent of the top 200 markets.  Combined with the spectrum previously purchased in the AWS auction, AT&T will have quality spectrum available for new services covering 95 percent of the U.S. population. With this spectrum we can continue to deliver the latest technology and best-in-class services to our customers as the wireless industry grows and evolves.
 
 
 
 
About AT&T
AT&T Inc. (NYSE:T) is a premier communications holding company. Its subsidiaries and affiliates, AT&T operating companies, are the providers of AT&T services in the United States and around the world. Among their offerings are the world's most advanced IP-based business communications services and the nation's leading wireless, high speed Internet access and voice services. In domestic markets, AT&T is known for the directory publishing and advertising sales leadership of its Yellow Pages and YELLOWPAGES.COM organizations, and the AT&T brand is licensed to innovators in such fields as communications equipment. As part of its three-screen integration strategy, AT&T is expanding its TV entertainment offerings. Additional information about AT&T Inc. and the products and services provided by AT&T subsidiaries and affiliates is available at .
http://w
ww.att.com
 
 
Cautionary Language Concerning Forward-Looking Statements
Information set forth in this news release contains financial estimates and other forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties, and actual results may differ materially. A discussion of factors that may affect future results is contained in AT&T's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. AT&T disclaims any obligation to update or revise statements contained in this news release based on new information or otherwise.
 2008 AT&T Intellectual Property. All rights reserved. AT&T and the AT&T logo are trademarks of AT&T Intellectual Property.


