FILE:T/T-8K-20090422080242.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
Items 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
The registrant announced on April 22, 2009, its results of operations for the first quarter of 2009. The text of the press release and accompanying financial information are attached as exhibits and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
The following exhibits are furnished as part of this report:
 
(c)          Exhibits
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

 
 
For more information, contact:
McCall Butler
Mobile:
917-209-5792
E-mail:
mbutler@attews.us
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note: AT&T's first-quarter earnings conference call will be broadcast live via the Internet at 10 a.m. ET on Wednesday, April 22, 2009, at .
www.att.com/investor.relations
 
 AT&T Inc. (NYSE:T) today reported first-quarter results highlighted by improved postpaid wireless growth with a substantial step up in integrated device penetration, double-digit increases in revenues from IP-based and strategic
DALLAS, April 22, 2009
business services, and further AT&T U-verse TV subscriber gains. Advances in these areas and solid cost management largely offset continuing economic pressures on consumers and businesses.
 
 
 
AT&Ts first-quarter revenues totaled $30.6 billion, net income attributable to AT&T was $3.1 billion, diluted earnings per share totaled $0.53 and cash from operating activities totaled $7.9 billion.
 
These results demonstrate focused and disciplined execution as we work through a tough economy, said Randall Stephenson, AT&T chairman and chief executive officer. Our cost-improvement initiatives are on track, earnings and cash flow were solid, our balance sheet and credit metrics continue to be strong.
 
Most important, during this down cycle we continue to invest in key growth areas like mobile broadband, more bandwidth to the home through our all-IP AT&T U-verse platform, and advanced global business solutions delivered over AT&Ts premier Internet backbone network. We have good momentum in all of these areas.
 
"I am particularly pleased with the success of our iPhone 3G initiative, which has driven strong high-end customer growth and delivered financial benefits ahead of our original outlook. Business and consumer expectations for mobility are on the rise, wireless innovation is flourishing and the opportunities ahead are substantial. AT&T is strongly positioned to lead in the next generation of wireless growth.
 
First-Quarter Financial Results
 
For the quarter ended March 31, 2009, AT&T's consolidated revenues totaled $30.6 billion versus $30.7 billion in the year-earlier quarter, as growth in wireless and wireline data services in large part offset pressures from the macro-environment, including continuing declines in wireline voice access lines and business voice revenues.
 
Compared with results for the year-earlier quarter, AT&T's operating expenses for the first quarter of 2009 were $24.8 billion versus $24.8 billion; operating income was $5.7 billion versus $6.0 billion; and AT&T's operating income margin was 18.8 percent, compared with 19.5 percent.
 
First-quarter 2009 net income attributable to AT&T totaled $3.1 billion versus $3.5 billion in the year-earlier quarter, and earnings per diluted share totaled $0.53, compared with $0.57 in the first quarter of 2008.
 
First-quarter 2009 results included incremental noncash pension and retiree benefit expenses of more than $400 million, or $0.05 per diluted share, consistent with the companys previously provided full-year outlook.
 
AT&T's cash from operating activities for the first quarter totaled $7.9 billion, capital expenditures totaled $3.4 billion and free cash flow (cash from operations minus capital expenditures) totaled $4.6 billion. Dividends paid totaled $2.4 billion.
 
2
Wireless Operational Highlights
 
AT&Ts first-quarter wireless growth was highlighted by postpaid subscriber gains that were up significantly from year-earlier levels, continued rapid adoption of integrated devices (handsets with QWERTY or virtual keyboards in addition to voice functionality) and wireless data services, and substantial sequential margin expansion reflecting operational improvements and iPhone benefits. Highlights include the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3
 
 
Wireline Operational Highlights
 
AT&Ts first-quarter wireline results were led by further growth in AT&T U-verse subscribers, solid broadband results and a double-digit increase in revenues from IP-based and strategic business services such as Ethernet and VPNs. Highlights include the following:
 
 
 
 
 
4
 
 
 
 
About AT&T
 
AT&T Inc. (NYSE:T) is a premier communications holding company. Its subsidiaries and affiliates, AT&T operating companies, are the providers of AT&T services in the United States and around the world. Among their offerings are the world's most advanced IP-based business communications services, the nations fastest 3G network and the best wireless coverage worldwide, and the nation's leading high speed Internet access and voice services. In domestic markets, AT&T is known for the directory publishing and advertising sales leadership of its Yellow Pages and YELLOWPAGES.COM organizations, and the AT&T brand is licensed to innovators in such fields as communications equipment. As part of their three-screen integration strategy, AT&T operating companies are expanding their TV entertainment offerings. In 2009, AT&T again ranked No. 1 in the telecommunications industry on magazines list of the Worlds Most Admired Companies. Additional information about AT&T Inc. and the products and services provided by AT&T subsidiaries and affiliates is available at .
FORTUNE
 
http://www.att.com
 
 2009 AT&T Intellectual Property. All rights reserved. AT&T, the AT&T logo and all other marks contained herein are trademarks of AT&T Intellectual Property and/or AT&T affiliated companies. All other marks contained herein are the property of their respective owners.
 
Note: This AT&T news release and other announcements are available as part of an RSS feed at . For more information, please review this announcement in the AT&T newsroom at .
www.att.com/rss
http://www.att.com/newsroom
 
5
 
Cautionary Language Concerning Forward-Looking Statements
 
Information set forth in this news release contains financial estimates and other forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties, and actual results may differ materially. A discussion of factors that may affect future results is contained in AT&T's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. AT&T disclaims any obligation to update or revise statements contained in this news release based on new information or otherwise. This news release may contain certain non-GAAP financial measures. Reconciliations between the non-GAAP financial measures and the GAAP financial measures are available on the company's Web site at . Accompanying financial statements follow.
www.att.com/investor.relations
 
NOTE: OIBDA is defined as operating income (loss) before depreciation and amortization. OIBDA differs from Segment Operating Income (loss), as calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), in that it excludes depreciation and amortization. OIBDA does not give effect to cash used for debt service requirements and thus does not reflect available funds for distributions, reinvestment or other discretionary uses. OIBDA is not presented as an alternative measure of operating results or cash flows from operations, as determined in accordance with GAAP. Our calculation of OIBDA, as presented, may differ from similarly titled measures reported by other companies.
 
NOTE: Free cash flow is defined as cash from operations minus capital expenditures. We believe this metric provides useful information to our investors because management regularly reviews free cash flow as an important indicator of how much cash is generated by normal business operations, including capital expenditures, and makes decisions based on it. Management also views it as a measure of cash available to pay debt and return cash to shareowners.
 
6
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.3
OIBDA DISCUSSION
OIBDA is defined as operating income (loss) before depreciation and amortization. OIBDA margin is calculated as OIBDA divided by service revenues. OIBDA differs from Segment Operating Income (Loss), as calculated in accordance with GAAP, in that it excludes depreciation and amortization. OIBDA does not give effect to cash used for debt service requirements and thus does not reflect available funds for distributions, reinvestment or other discretionary uses. OIBDA is not presented as an alternative measure of operating results or cash flows from operations, as determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Our calculation of OIBDA, as presented, may differ from similarly titled measures reported by other companies.
We believe these measures are relevant and useful information to our investors as they are part of AT&T Mobilitys internal management reporting and planning processes and are important metrics that AT&T Mobilitys management uses to evaluate the operating performance of its regional operations. These measures are used by management as a gauge of AT&T Mobilitys success in acquiring, retaining and servicing subscribers because we believe these measures reflect AT&T Mobilitys ability to generate and grow subscriber revenues while providing a high level of customer service in a cost-effective manner. Management also uses these measures as a method of comparing AT&T Mobilitys performance with that of many of its competitors. The financial and operating metrics which affect OIBDA include the key revenue and expense drivers for which AT&T Mobilitys operating managers are responsible and upon which we evaluate their performance.
OIBDA does not give effect to cash used for debt service requirements and thus does not reflect available funds for distributions, reinvestment or other discretionary uses. OIBDA excludes other, net, minority interest in earnings of consolidated entities and equity in net income (loss) of affiliates, as these do not reflect the operating results of AT&T Mobilitys subscriber base and its national footprint that AT&T Mobility utilizes to obtain and service its customers. Equity in net income (loss) of affiliates represents AT&T Mobilitys proportionate share of the net income (loss) of affiliates in which it exercises significant influence, but does not control. As AT&T Mobility does not control these entities, our management excludes these results when evaluating the performance of our primary operations. OIBDA excludes interest expense and the provision for income taxes. Excluding these items eliminates the expenses associated with its capitalization and tax structures. Finally, OIBDA excludes depreciation and amortization, in order to eliminate the impact of capital investments.
We believe OIBDA as a percentage of service revenues to be a more relevant measure of AT&T Mobilitys operating margin than OIBDA as a percentage of total revenue. AT&T Mobility generally subsidizes a portion of its handset sales, all of which are recognized in the period in which AT&T Mobility sells the handset. This results in a disproportionate impact on its margin in that period. Management views this equipment subsidy as a cost to acquire or retain a subscriber, which is recovered through the ongoing service revenue that is generated by the subscriber. AT&T Mobility also uses service revenues to calculate margin to facilitate comparison, both internally and externally with its competitors, as they calculate their margins using services revenue as well.
There are material limitations to using these non-GAAP financial measures. OIBDA and OIBDA margin, as we have defined them, may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. Furthermore, these performance measures do not take into account certain significant items, including depreciation and amortization, interest expense, tax expense and equity in net income (loss) of affiliates, which directly affect AT&T Mobilitys net income. Management compensates for these limitations by carefully analyzing how its competitors present performance measures that are similar in nature to OIBDA as we present it, and considering the economic effect of the excluded expense items independently as well as in connection with its analysis of net income as calculated in accordance with GAAP. OIBDA and OIBDA margin should be considered in addition to, but not as a substitute for, other measures of financial performance reported in accordance with GAAP.
FREE CASH FLOW DISCUSSION
Free cash flow is defined as cash from operations minus capital expenditures.  Free cash flow after dividends is defined as cash from operations minus capital expenditures and dividends.  Free cash flow yield is defined as cash from continuing operations less capital expenditures as a percentage of market capitalization computed on the last trading day of the quarter.  Market capitalization is computed by multiplying the end of period stock price by the end of period shares outstanding.  We believe these metrics provide useful information to our investors because management monthly reviews free cash flow as an important indicator of how much cash is generated by normal business operations, including capital expenditures, and makes decisions based on it.  Management also views it as a measure of cash available to pay debt and return cash to shareowners.


