FILE:T/T-8K-20090511093552.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
Item 8.01  Other Events.
Throughout this document, AT&T Inc. is referred to as we or AT&T. We are a holding company whose subsidiaries and affiliates operate in the communications services industry. Our subsidiaries and affiliates provide wireless and wireline telecommunications services and equipment, and directory advertising both domestically and worldwide.
CAUTIONARY LANGUAGE CONCERNING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
Information set forth in this filing contains financial estimates and other forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties. A discussion of factors that may affect future results is contained in AT&Ts filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. AT&T disclaims any obligation to update or revise statements contained in this filing based on new information or otherwise.
On May 08, 2009, AT&T announced a definitive agreement to acquire certain wireless assets from Verizon Wireless ("VW") for $2.35 billion in cash.  The assets primarily represent former Alltel Wireless assets.  AT&T will acquire wireless properties, including licenses and network assets, serving approximately 1.5 million subscribers in 79 service areas across 18 states.   AT&T expects integration costs for conversion of the network assets to GSM technology used by AT&T, amortization of intangible assets and moving subscribers to AT&T, to result in dilution to earnings of approximately six cents per share in the first year after closing and to improve thereafter.  Conversion to GSM technology from the assets current CDMA technology is expected to take no more than 12 months and to result in an additional planned capital investment of 400 million over 2009 and 2010.
approximately $
AT&T also announced an agreement, contingent on AT&T completing its acquisition of Centennial Communications Corporation ("Centennial"), to sell to VW certain assets of Centennial for $240 million.  These assets represent approximately 120,000 subscribers in five service areas.
Each agreement is contingent upon regulatory approval and each is expected to close in the fourth quarter of 2009.
 
 
 
 


