FILE:T/T-8K-20100625150239.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02  Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On June 24, 2010, the Human Resources Committee (the Committee) of the Board of Directors of AT&T Inc. (AT&T) amended AT&Ts Change in Control Severance Plan (the Plan).  Prior to the amendment, in the event a Plan participant received a severance payment that resulted in the imposition of excise taxes on the participant, AT&T paid the participants excise taxes and taxes thereon to the extent that the excise taxes were incurred because of prior deferrals of income by a participant. As a result of the amendment, AT&T will no longer pay excise taxes or taxes thereon under the Plan. Instead, benefits pay able under the Plan will be reduced to avoid incurring excise taxes, or, if it is determined to be more beneficial to the participant, AT&T will pay the full amount of benefits, and the participant will be liable for payment of the excise taxes. The Committee also made other, minor changes to the Plan.
At the same meeting, the Committee also amended AT&Ts 2005 Supplemental Employee Retirement Plan (the SERP), in consultation with Randall Stephenson, AT&Ts Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President. The amendment applies only to Mr. Stephenson. As a result of the amendment, (1) Mr. Stephensons compensation for purposes of calculating his SERP benefit is frozen as of June 30, 2010, (2) Mr. Stephensons age and service for purposes of calculating his SERP benefit are frozen as of December 31, 2012 and (3) interest shall accrue on Mr. Stephensons frozen SERP benefit beginning January 1, 2013, at a rate to be determined by the Com mittee.
The foregoing descriptions of the amendments to the Plan and the SERP are qualified in their entirety by reference to the texts of the amendments, which are filed herewith as Exhibits 10-a and 10-b, respectively.
Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)   Exhibits
 
Exhibit No.
 
  
 
Description
10-a AT&Ts Change in Control Severance Plan, effective January 1, 2011, amended and restated June
   
   
 24, 2010
   
   
   
10-b
   
   
2005 Supplemental Employee Retirement Plan, amended and restated June 24, 2010
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
The purpose of the AT&T Inc. Change in Control Severance Plan (the ) is to foster the continuous employment of key management personnel of the Company and its Subsidiaries and to reinforce and encourage their continued attention and dedication to their duties in the face of potentially disturbing circumstances arising from the possibility of a Change in Control (as defined in Article 2) of the Company, although no such change is now apparent or contemplated.
Plan
 
 
As used in this Plan, the following terms shall have the respective meanings set forth below, and, when the meaning is intended, the initial letter of the word is capitalized:
 
 means the Participants annual rate of base salary in effect immediately prior to the occurrence of the circumstance giving rise to the Participants Termination of Employment, or, if greater, the Participants annual rate of base salary in effect immediately prior to the Change in Control.
Base Salary
 
 means the Board of Directors of the Company and, after a Change in Control, the board of directors of the Ultimate Parent (as defined below under Change in Control).
Board
 
 means a Participants target annual bonus for the fiscal year in which the Change in Control occurs or in which Participants Date of Termination occurs, whichever is greater; provided that, if a target annual bonus has not been established for the applicable fiscal year, then the target annual bonus established for the preceding fiscal year shall be substituted in lieu thereof.
Bonus Amount
 
 means (i) the willful and continued failure by a Participant to substantially perform his or her duties with the Company and its Subsidiaries (other than any such failure resulting from his or her incapacity due to physical or mental impairment, or any such actual or anticipated failure after the issuance of a notice of termination by him or her for Good Reason) after a written demand for substantial performance is delivered to the Participant by the Company which demand specifically identifies the manner in which the Company believes that he or she has not substantially performed his or her duties, or (ii) the willful engaging by a Participant in conduct which is demonstrably and materially injurious to the Company or any Subsidiary, monetarily or otherwise.  For purposes of this definition, no act, or failure to act, on a Participants part shall be deemed willful unless done, or omitted to be done, by the Participant not in good faith and without reasonable belief that his or her action or omission was in the best interest of the Company and its Subsidiaries.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Participant shall not be deemed to have been terminated for Cause unless and until there shall have been delivered to him or her a copy of a resolution duly adopted by the affirmative vote of not less than three-quarters (3/4) of the entire membership of the Board at a meeting of the Board called and held for such purpose (after reasonable notice to the Participant and an opportunity for him or her, together with counsel, to be heard before the Board), finding that in the good faith opinion of the Board the Participant was guilty of the conduct set forth above in clauses (i) or (ii) of the first sentence of this definition and specifying the particulars thereof in detail.
Cause
 
 shall be deemed to have occurred if (i) any person (as such term is used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Exchange Act), other than a trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of the Company or a corporation owned directly or indirectly by the shareowners of the Company in substantially the same proportions as their ownership of stock of the Company, is or becomes the beneficial owner (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under said Act), directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company representing twenty percent (20%) or more of the total voting power represented by the Companys then outstanding voting securities, or (ii) during any period of two (2) consecutive years, individuals who at the beginning of such period constitute the Board of Directors and any new Director whose election by the Board of Directors or nomination for election by the Companys shareowners was approved by a vote of at least two-thirds (2/3) of the Directors then still in office who either were Directors at the beginning of the period or whose election or nomination for election was previously so approved, cease for any reason to constitute a majority thereof, or (iii) the consummation of a merger or consolidation of the Company with any other corporation, other than a merger or consolidation which would result in the voting securities of the Company outstanding immediately prior thereto continuing to represent (either by remaining outstanding or by being converted into voting securities of the surviving entity) at least fifty percent (50%) of the total voting power represented by the voting securities of t he Company or such surviving entity outstanding immediately after such merger or consolidation (such post-merger surviving entity the ), or the shareowners of the Company approve a plan of complete liquidation of the Company or an agreement for the sale or disposition by the Company of all or substantially all the Companys assets.
Change in Control
Ultimate Parent
 
 means the Human Resources Committee of the Board.
Committee
 
 means AT&T Inc.
Company
 
 means the date of the Participant's Termination of Employment with the Company and its Subsidiaries as determined under Section 4.1 of the Plan.
Date of Termination
 
 has the meaning ascribed under the relevant Employers long-term disability plan.
Disability
 
means any person employed as an employee by an Employer and paid on an Employers employee payroll system, excluding persons hired for a fixed maximum term and excluding persons who are neither citizens nor permanent residents of the United States, all as determined by the Employer.  For purposes of this Plan, a person on a Leave of Absence who otherwise would be an Employee shall be deemed to be an Employee.
Employee
 
 means the Company or any of its Subsidiaries provided that, if an entity ceases to be a Subsidiary during the Termination Period, such entity shall continue to be an Employer and the Employee shall continue to be a Participant until the second anniversary of the Change in Control and, notwithstanding any other provision to the contrary, any benefits under the Plan shall be paid or provided by the Company.
Employer
 
 means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Exchange Act
 
 means a person who has been identified by the Company as an executive officer under Rule 3b-7 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 prior to a Change in Control.
Executive Officer
 
 means, without the Participants express written consent, the occurrence of any of the following events after a Change in Control:  (i) the assignment to the Participant of any duties inconsistent with his or her title(s) or status immediately prior to the Change in Control, or a substantial adverse alteration in the nature or status of his or her responsibilities from those in effect immediately prior to the Change in Control; (ii) a reduction in the Participants annual base salary, target short-term or long term incentive award opportunity (including any current payments that may be made thereunder, such as the payment of dividend equivalents) as in effect immediately prior to the Change in Control, except for across-the-board salary reductions similarly affecting all officers of the Company and its Subsidiaries and all managers in equivalent positions of any person in control of the Company; (iii) the failure to pay to the Participant any portion of his or her current compensation or deferred compensation under any compensation or benefit program within seven (7) days of the date such payment is due; (iv)  the failure to continue to provide the Participant with benefits substantially similar to those enjoyed by him or her under the pension, life insurance, medical, health, accident and disability plans, or any fringe benefit material to the Participant that he or she was eligible for at the time of the Change in Control; the direct or indirect material reduction in any of such benefits; or the failure to provide the Participant with the number of paid vacation days to which he or she is entitled on the basis of his or her duration of service with the Company and its Subsidiaries, in accordance with the Employer's normal vacation policy in effect immediately prior to the Change in Control; (v) the failure to obtain a satisfactory agreement from any successor to assume and agree to perform this Plan, as contemplated in Article 7; or (vi) any purported termination of the Participants employment after a Change in Control which is not effected pursuant to a notice of termination satisfying the requirements of Sections 4.1 and 8.1 (for purposes of this Plan, no such purported termination shall be effective); provided, however, that a good faith determination within ninety (90) days of the occurrence of a Change in Control by a Participant who is the Chief Executive Officer of the Company (the CEO) that, as a result of such Change in Control, he or she is not able to discharge his or her duties effectively shall constitute Good Reason.
Good Reason
 
An isolated, insubstantial and inadvertent action taken in good faith implicating clauses (i), (iv), (v) or (vi) of this definition which is fully corrected by the Company prior to the Date of Termination specified in the notice of termination shall not constitute Good Reason.  A Participants right to terminate his or her employment for Good Reason shall not be affected by his or her incapacity due to physical or mental impairment.  A Participants continued employment shall not constitute consent to, or a waiver of rights with respect to, any circumstance constituting Good Reason hereunder.
 
 shall mean when a Participant is absent from employment with an Employer on a leave of absence, military leave, or sick leave, where the leave is given in order to prevent a break in the continuity of term of employment, and permission for such leave is granted (and not revoked) in conformity with the rules of the Employer that employs the individual, as adopted from time to time and the Employee is reasonably expected to return to service.  Except as set forth below, the leave shall not exceed six (6) months for purposes of this Plan, and the Employee shall incur a Termination of Employment upon cessation of such leave if the Employee does not return to work prior to that time, unless the individual retains a right to reemployment under law or by contract.  A twenty-nine (29) month limitation shall apply in lieu of such six (6) month limitation if the leave is due to the Employee being "disabled" (within the meaning of Treasury Regulation 1.409A-3(i)(4)), and the Employee shall incur a Termination of Employment upon cessation of such leave.  A Leave of Absence shall not commence or shall be deemed to cease under the Plan where the Employee has incurred a Termination of Employment.
Leave of Absence
 
 means any Executive Officer and any Employee who is an officer level Employee for compensation purposes as shown on the records of the Company and its Subsidiaries.
Officer Level Employee
 
 means the CEO, each Officer Level Employee who ha in effect on September 28, 2006 a Severance Benefits  Change in Control Agreement with the Company, and each other Officer Level Employee (i) who is designated from time to time in writing by the CEO and (ii) whose designation is evidenced in writing by a notification of participation to the Employee signed by the CEO.  A person shall cease to be a Participant upon (a) the Participants Termination of Employment prior to a Potential Change in Control or (b) the Board, the Committee or the CEO determining, in their sole discretion, that the person shall cease to qualify for benefits under this Plan (but any such determination made in respect of a Participant shall be considered an amendment of the Plan adverse to the interests of the affected Participant and is subject to the provisions of Section 8.5).  Notwithstanding the foregoing, only the Committee shall have the authority to exclude from participation or take any other action with respect to Executive Officers.
Participant
d
 
 shall be deemed to have occurred if (i) the Company enters into an agreement, the consummation of which would result in the occurrence of a Change in Control or (ii)  the Board adopts a resolution to the effect that, for purposes of this Plan, a Potential Change in Control of the Company has occurred.
Potential Change in Control
 
 means a Participants Termination of Employment during the Termination Period (i) by the other than for Cause or (ii) by the Participant for Good Reason.  Termination of Employment on account of death, Disability or Retirement shall not be treated as a Qualifying Termination.
Qualifying Termination
Employer
 
 means the Participants mandatory retirement in accordance with the Employers mandatory retirement age policy, if any, for officers prior to a Change in Control or in accordance with any retirement arrangement established with the Participants consent with respect to him or her; provided, however, that a Participant's termination for Good Reason shall not constitute Retirement.
Retirement
 as in effect immediately
 
 means any Participant who is a Key Employee (as defined in Code Section 416(i) without regard to paragraph (5) thereof), as determined by the Company in accordance with its uniform policy with respect to all arrangements subject to Code Section 409A, based upon the twelve (12) month period ending on each December 31st (such twelve (12) month period is referred to below as the identification period).  All Participants who are determined to be key employees under Code Section 416(i) (without regard to paragraph (5) thereof) during the identification period shall be treated as Specified Employees for purposes of the Plan during the twelve (12) month period that begins on the first day of the 4th month following the close of such identification period.
Specified Employee
 
 means any corporation, partnership, venture or other entity in which the Company holds, directly or indirectly, a fifty percent (50%) or greater ownership interest.  The Committee may, at its sole discretion, designate, on such terms and conditions as the Committee shall determine, any other corporation, partnership, limited liability company, venture or other entity a Subsidiary for purposes of this Plan.
Subsidiary
 
 means the event where the Participant has a separation from service, as defined under Section 409A, with the Employer.
Termination of Employment
 
 means the period of time beginning with a Change in Control and ending on the second anniversary of such Change in Control.
Termination Period
 
 
This Plan shall be effective as of January 1, 2007.  Nothing in this Plan shall be deemed to entitle any Participant to continued employment with any Employer, and if a Participant's employment with any Employer terminates prior to a Change in Control, the Participant shall have no rights under this Plan (except in the case of a Qualifying Termination).
 
4.1
   
.
Termination of Employment
 
(a)
   
  Any purported termination of a Participants employment during the Termination Period by an Employer or by a Participant shall be communicated by written notice of termination to the other party in accordance with this Section 4.1 and Section 8.1 (regarding notices).  For purposes of this Plan, a notice of termination shall mean a notice which shall indicate the specific termination provision in this Plan relied upon and shall set forth in reasonable detail the facts a nd circumstances claimed to provide a basis for the Participants Termination of Employment under the provision so indicated.  The failure by the Participant or the Employer to set forth in such notice any fact or circumstance which contributes to a showing of Good Reason or Cause shall not waive any right of the Participant or the Employer hereunder or preclude the Participant or the Employer from asserting such fact or circumstance in enforcing the Participants or the Employers rights hereunder.
Notice of Termination.
 
(b)
   
.  If a Participant has a Qualifying Termination, the Date of Termination shall be the date specified in the notice of termination (which, in the case of a termination other than for Cause or a termination for Good Reason shall not be less than fifteen (15) nor more than sixty (60) days from the date such notice is given).  If a Participant's Termination of Employment is for Cause, the Date of Termination shall not be less than thirty (30) days from the date notice is given.  In the event of a dispute arising out of the Participants Termination of Employment, the Date of Termination will be determined in accordance with Section 4.1(c).
Date of Termination
 
(c)  If within fifteen (15) days after any notice of termination is given, or, if later, prior to the Date of Termination (as determined without regard to this provision), the party receiving such notice of termination notifies the other party that a dispute exists concerning whether the termination is a Qualifying Termination or for Cause, the Date of Termination for purposes of Section 4.2 hereof shall be the date on which the dispute is finally resolved either by mutual written agreement of the parties, or by a final judgment, order or decree of a court of competent jurisdiction (which is not appealable or with respect to which the time for appeal therefrom has expired and no appeal has been perfected); provided, however, th at if the dispute is not resolved prior to the end of the Termination Period, the Termination Period shall be extended so as not to deprive the Participant of the benefits under Section 4.2 in respect of such termination; provided further, that the Date of Termination shall be extended by a notice of dispute only if such notice is given in good faith and the party giving such notice pursues the resolution of such dispute with reasonable diligence.  During the pendency of any such dispute (the Dispute Period), subject to Section 6.1, the Employer will (i) continue to pay the Participant his or her full Base Salary in accordance with the Companys payroll practice in effect from time to time (provided that the amount paid in any calendar year shall be equal to the Participants annual rate of Base Salary or a proportionate fraction thereof with respect to portions of calendar years during the Dispute Period (other than amounts that are required to be paid in a subsequent calendar year pursuant to Section 6.1)), and (ii) continue the Participant as a participant in all Health Benefits as described in Section 4.2(c) of the Plan (subject to Section 6.2 of the Plan) on the same basis as provided under Section 4.2(c). Amounts paid under this provision are in addition to all other amounts due under this Plan and shall not be offset against or reduce any other amounts due under this Plan.
   
Disputes Involving Termination.
 
4.2
   
.
Severance Payments
 
 If the Participant has a Qualifying Termination, then subject to Schedule B to the Plan, the Company shallor shall cause the Employer to provide to the Participant:
 
 
(a) his or her full base salary through the Date of Termination at the rate in effect at the time notice of termination is given, plus all other amounts to which he or she is entitled under any compensation plan in effect immediately prior to the Change in Control, at the time such payments are due; provided that, subject to the Participants execution of a Release in the form attached to this Plan as Schedule A (the Release) within forty-five (45) days of the Participants Date of Termination (and thereafter not revoking such Release), for purposes of determining the amount to which a Participant is entitled under the Financial Counseling Program, he or she shall be regarded as having retired under the terms of the program; and
   
 
(b) the Participants execution of a Release within forty-five (45) days of the Participants Date of Termination (and thereafter not revoking such Release), a lump sum cash payment equal to the result of multiplying (i) the sum of (A) the Participants Base Salary, plus (B) the Participants Bonus Amount by (ii) 2.99; provided, however, that if the amount of such payment cannot be finally determined on or before such day, the Participant shall be paid an estimate, as determined in good faith by the Company of the minimum amount of such payment and the remainder of such payment (together with interest at the rate provided in section 1274(b)(2)(B) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the Code)) as soon as the amount thereof can be determined; prov ided further that, in the event that the amount of the estimated payment exceeds the amount subsequently determined to have been due, such excess shall be reimbursed by the Participant, payable on the fifth (5th) day after demand by the Company (together with interest at the rate provided in section 1274(b)(2)(B) of the Code); and
   
subject to
 
(c)if the Participant is not otherwise entitled to such benefits at no cost to him or her pursuant to the terms of such plans, subject to Section 6.2 of the Plan, for a thirty six (36) month period from the Date of Termination or until December 31 of the year in which the Participant reaches age sixty-five (65), whichever is the shorter period (the Benefit Period), life, health and dental benefits (including spouse and dependent coverage) (Health Benefits) substantially similar to those that he or she was receiving immediately prior to the Date of Termination and such benefits shall be provided at no cost to the Participant (or spouse and dependents), provided that, notwithstanding the foregoing, the Participant shall not be provided any Health Benefit pursuant to this Section 4.2(c) if an equivalent benefit is actually received by the Participant during the Benefit Period from another Employer following his or her Date of Termination and any such Health Benefit actually received by the Participant shall be reported by the Participant to the Company.
   
subject to the Participants execution of a Release within forty-five (45) days of the Participants Date of Termination (and thereafter not revoking such Release), 
 
.  Except as otherwise expressly provided pursuant to this Plan, this Plan shall be construed and administered in a manner which avoids duplication of compensation and benefits which may be provided under any other plan, program, policy, or other arrangement or individual contract.  In the event a Participant is covered by any other plan, program, policy, individually negotiated agreement or other arrangement, in effect as of his or her Date of Termination, that may duplicate the payments and benefits provided for in this Article 4, the Company may reduce or eliminate the duplicative benefits provided for under the Plan
4.
3
   
No
 Duplication of Benefits
but solely to the extent such reduction or elimination  does not cause the Participant to be subject to penalty taxes under Section 409A.
 
4.4
   
.  
No Affect on Other Benefits
This Plan does not abrogate any of the usual entitlements which a Participant has or will have, first, while a regular employee, and subsequently, after termination, and thus, subject to Section 4.3 of this Plan, a Participant shall be entitled to receive all benefits payable to him or her under each and every qualified plan, welfare plan and any other plan or program relating to benefits and deriving from his or her employment with the Company and it Subsidiaries, but solely in accordance with the terms and provisions thereof.
 
 
 
The Company and its Subsidiaries may withhold from all payments due to the Participant (or his beneficiary or estate) hereunder all taxes which, by applicable federal, state, local or other law, are required to be withheld.
 
In the event that a payment to be made pursuant to Sections 4.1(c) or 4.2(b) or any other amounts under this Plan that constitutes non-qualified deferred compensation under Section 409A of the Code ("Section 409A") is to be made to a Specified Employee, such payment will be delayed for six (6) months after the Date of Termination if required in order to avoid additional tax under Section 409A and paid in a single lump sum on the first business day of the month following the end of such six (6) month period.  If a Participant who is a Specified Employee dies within six (6) months following such Termination of Employment, any such delayed payments shall not be further delayed, and shall be immediately payable within forty-five (45) days to his or her estate in accordance with the applicable provisions of this Plan.
6.1
  
 
Delay of Payment
.  
 
.  Health Benefits shall be provided in such a manner that such benefits (and the costs and premiums thereof) are excluded from the Participants income for federal income tax purposes and, if the Company reasonably determines that providing continued coverage under one or more of its health care benefit plans contemplated herein could be taxable to the Participant, the Company shall provide such benefits at the level required hereby through the purchase of individual insurance coverage.
6.2
   
Health Benefits
 
.  Subject to the Participants execution of a Release within forty-five (45) days of the Participants Date of Termination (and thereafter not revoking such Release), the Company shall use its best efforts to pay, or shall use its best efforts to cause the Employer to pay, to the Participant the cash lump sum described in  Section 4.2(b) to be made, subject to Section 6.1 on the sixtieth (60th) day following the Participants Date of Termination.
6.3
   
Cash Payments
 
No Employer will take any action that would expose any payment or benefit to a Participant under this Plan to the additional tax imposed under Section 409A unless (i) the Employer is obligated to take the action under an agreement, plan or arrangement, (ii) a Participant requests the action, (iii) the Employer advises such Participant in writing that the action may result in the imposition of the additional tax and (iv) such Participant subsequently requests the ac tion in a writing that acknowledges that he or she will be responsible for any effect of the action under Section 409A.
6.4
   
No Adverse Action
.  
 
 
The Company will require any successor (whether direct or indirect, by purchase, merger, consolidation or otherwise) to all or substantially all of the business and/or assets of the Company to unconditionally assume all of the obligations of the hereunder.  Failure of the Company to obtain such assumption prior to the effectiveness of any such succession shall constitute Good Reason hereunder and shall entitle the Participants to compensation and other benefits in the same amount and on the same terms as the Participants would be entitled hereunder if they had a Qualifying Termination, except that for purposes of implementing the foregoing, the date on which any succession becomes effective shall be deemed the Date of Terminati on.
7.1
   
Employer
 
The benefits provided under this Plan shall inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by the Participants personal or legal representatives, executors, administrators, successors, heirs, distributees, devisees and legatees.  If the Participant shall die while any amounts would be payable to the Participant hereunder had the Participant continued to live, all such amounts, unless otherwise provided herein, shall be paid in accordance with the terms of this Plan to such person or persons appointed in writing by the Participant to receive such amounts or, if no person is so appointed, to the Participants estat e.
7.2
   
 
 
.  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Plan, all elections and notices of every kind under this Plan shall be made on forms prepared by the Company or its General Counsel, Secretary or Assistant Secretary, or their respective delegates or shall be made in such other manner as permitted or required by the Company or its General Counsel, Secretary or Assistant Secretary, or their respective delegates, including through electronic means, over the Internet or otherwise.  An election shall be deemed made when received by the Company (or its designated agent, but only in cases where the designated agent has been appointed for the purpose of receiving such election), which may waive any defects in form.
8.1
   
Election and Notices
 
If not otherwise specified by this Plan or the Company, any notice or filing required or permitted to be given to the Company under the Plan shall be delivered to the principal office of the Company, directed to the attention of the Senior Executive Vice President in charge of Human Resources for the Company or his or her successor.  Such notice shall be deemed given on the date of delivery.
 
Notice to the Participant shall be deemed given when mailed (or sent by telecopy) to the Participants work or home address as shown on the records of the Employer or, at the option of the Company, to the Participants e-mail address as shown on the records of the Employer.  It is the Participants responsibility to ensure that the Participants addresses are kept up to date on the records of the Employer.  In the case of notices affecting multiple Participants, the notices may be given by general distribution at the Participants work locations.
 
8.2
   
No Mitigation; Resolution of Disputes and Costs
 
(a)
   
In no event shall the Participant be obligated to seek other employment or take other action by way of mitigation of the amounts payable to the Participant under any of the provisions of this Plan and, except as provided in Section 4.2(c)such amounts shall not be reduced whether or not the Participant obtains other employment.
 
(b)
   
Participants may submit claims for benefits by giving notice to the Company pursuant to Section 8.1.  If a Participant believes that he or she has not received coverage or benefits to which he or she is entitled under the Plan, the Participant may notify the Company in writing of a claim for coverage or benefits.  If the claim for coverage or benefits is denied in whole or in part, the Company shall notify the applicant in writing of such denial within thirty (30) days (which may be extended to sixty (60) days under special circumstances), with such notice setting forth: (i) the specific reasons for the denial; (ii) the Plan provisions upon which the denial is based; (iii) any additional material or information necessary for the applicant to perfect his or her claim; and (iv) the procedures for requesting a revi ew of the denial.  Upon a denial of a claim by the Company, the Participant may:  (i) request a review of the denial by the Board or, where review authority has been so delegated, by such other person or entity as may be designated by the Board for this purpose; (ii) review any Plan documents relevant to his or her claim; and (iii) submit issues and comments to the Board or its delegate that are relevant to the review.  Any request for review must be made in writing and received by the Board or its delegate within sixty (60) days of the date the applicant received notice of the initial denial, unless special circumstances require an extension of time for processing.  The Board or its delegate will make a written ruling on the applicants request for review setting forth the reasons for the decision and the Plan provisions upon which the denial, if appropriate, is based.  This written ruling shall be made within thirty (30) days of the date the Board or its delegate receives the applicants request for review unless special circumstances require an extension of time for processing, in which case a decision will be rendered as soon as possible, but not later than sixty (60) days after receipt of the request for review.  All extensions of time permitted by this Section 8.2 will be permitted at the sole discretion of the Board or its delegate.  If the Board does not provide the Participant with written notice of the denial of his or her appeal, the Participants claim shall be deemed denied.
 
(c)
   
Notwithstanding anything in this Plan to the contrary, any court, tribunal or arbitration panel that adjudicates any dispute, controversy or claim arising between a Participant and any Employer, or any of their delegates or successors, in respect of a Participants Qualifying Termination, will apply a standard of review to any determinations made by such person. Such standard shall apply notwithstanding the grant of full discretion hereunder to any such person or characterization of any such decision by such person as final, binding or conclusive on any party.
de
novo
de
novo
 
(If any contest or dispute shall arise under this Plan involving a Participants Termination of Employment or involving the failure or refusal of any Employer to perform fully in accordance with the terms hereof, the Company shall or shall cause the Employer to reimburse the Participant on a current basis for all reasonable legal fees and related expenses, if any, incurred by the Participant at any time from the Effective Date of this Plan through the Participants remaining lifetime (or, if longer, through the 20th anniversary of the Change in Control) in connection with such contest or dispute (regardless of the result thereof), together with interest at the rate provided in section 1274(b)(2)(B) of the Code, such interest to accrue thirty (30) days from the date the Company receives t he Participants statement for such fees and expenses through the date of payment thereof, regardless of whether or not the Participants claim is upheld by a court of competent jurisdiction or an arbitration panel; provided, however, that the Participant shall be required to repay immediately any such amounts to the Employer to the extent that a court or an arbitration panel issues a final and non-appealable order setting forth the determination that the position taken by the Participant was frivolous or advanced by the Participant in bad faith. To comply with Section 409A, in no event shall the payments by the Employer under this Section 8.2(d) be made later than the end of the calendar year next following the calendar year in which such fees and expenses were incurred, provided, that the Participant shall have submitted an invoice for such fees and expenses at least ten (10) days before the end of the calendar year next following the calendar year in which such fees and expenses were incu rred.  The amount of such legal fees and expenses that the Employer is obligated to pay in any given calendar year shall not affect the legal fees and expenses that the Employer is obligated to pay in any other calendar year, and the Participants right to have the Employer pay such legal fees and expenses may not be liquidated or exchanged for any other benefit.
d)
   
 
8.3
   
  The respective obligations and benefits afforded to the Company and the Participant as provided in Articles 4 (to the extent that payments or benefits are owed as a result of a Qualifying Termination that occurs during the term of this Plan), 5, 6, 7 and 8 shall survive the termination of this Plan.
Survival
.
 
8.4
   
To the extent not preempted by Federal law, the Plan, and all benefits and agreements hereunder, and any and all disputes in connection therewith, shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the substantive laws of the State of Delaware, without regard to conflict or choice of law principles which might otherwise refer the construction, interpretation or enforceability of this Plan to the substantive law of a nother jurisdiction.
Governing Law; Validity.
 
 
8.5
   
  The Board or the Committee may amend (and, by amendment, terminate) this Plan at any time; , , that (i) no amendment that reduces or eliminates any benefit or other entitlement of any Participant or that is otherwise adverse to the interests of a Participant (an  ;) may take effect prior to the beginning of any calendar year, and any such amendment shall be void and of no effect, unless the Participant was notified of such amendment by September 30 of the prior year, (ii) no Adverse Amendment may be adopted during the period of time beginning on a Potential Change in Control and ending on the earlier of (a) the termination of the agreement that constituted the Potential Change in Control and (b) the secondanniversary of the resulting Change in Control, without the Participants written consent, and (iii) no Adverse Amendment may be adopted during the period commencing on a Change in Control and ending on the second anniversary of the Change in Control without the Participants written consent.The restrictions on amendments set forth in the prior sentence shall not apply to any amendment adopted within the period specified in clauses (ii) or (iii), above, if the following three conditions are satisfied: (1) the amendments do not take effect until the expiration of the periods, as applicable, set forth in such clauses, (2) each adversely affected Participant receives written notice of the adoption of such amendments within ten (10) days of such adoption and (3) such written notice is provided at least ninety (90) days prior to such amendments taking effect.
Amendment and Termination
.
provided
however
Adverse Amendment
 
 
 
8.6
 
   
  The Plan shall be administered by the Board.  The Board may delegate any of its powers under the Plan to a committee thereof or prior to a Change in Control, to the CEO.  Unless otherwise provided in this Plan, actions of the Board or such committee shall be taken by a majority vote of its members.  All references t o the Board herein shall be deemed to be references to such delegate, as appropriate.  The Board shall have the authority (i) to exercise all of the powers granted to it under the Plan, (ii) to construe, interpret and implement the Plan, (iii) to prescribe, amend and rescind rules and regulations relating to the Plan, (iv) to make all determinations necessary or advisable in administration of the Plan and (v) to correct any defect, supply any omission and reconcile any inconsistency in the Plan.
Interpretation and Administration
.
 
8.7
   
  This Plan is intended to be, and shall be interpreted (a) as an unfunded employee welfare plan under Section 3(1) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (ERISA) and Section 2520.104-24 of the Department of Labor Regulations, maintained primarily for the purpose of providing employee welfare benefits, to the extent that it provides welfare benefits, and under Sections 201, 301 and 401 of ERISA, as a plan that is unfunded and maintained primarily for the purpose of providing deferred compensation, to the extent that it provides such compensation, in each case for a select group of management or highly compensated employees and (b) to comply with the requirements of Section 409A of the Code.
Type of Plan
.
 
8.8
   
  Benefits under the Plan may not be sold, assigned, transferred, pledged, anticipated, mortgaged, or otherwise encumbered, transferred, hypothecated, or conveyed in advance of actual receipt of the amounts, if any, payable hereunder, or any part thereof by the Participant.
Nonassignability
.
 
 
 
 
 
RELEASE AND WAIVER
 
I, ________________, hereby fully waive and forever release and discharge Company, AT&T, any and all other subsidiaries of Company and of AT&T, their officers, directors, agents, servants, employees, successors and assigns and any and all employee benefit plans maintained by AT&T or any subsidiary thereof and/or any and all fiduciaries of any such plan from any and all common law and/or statutory claims, causes of action or suits of any kind whatsoever arising from or in connection with my past employment by Company (and any AT&T subsidiary to the extent applicable) and/or my separation therefrom, including but not limited to claims, actions, causes of action or suits of any kind allegedly arising under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA), as amended, 29 USC  1001 et seq.; the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended, 29 USC  701 et seq.; the Civil Rights Acts of 1866 and 1870, as amended, 42 USC  1981, 1982 and 1988; the Civil Rights Act of 1871, as amended, 42 USC  1983 and 1985; the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended, 42 USC  2000d et seq.; the Americans With Disabilities Act, as amended, 42 USC  12101 et seq., and the Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967 (ADEA), as amended, 29 USC  621 et seq., known and unknown. In addition, I, ___________, agree not to file any lawsuit or other claim seeking monetary damage or other relief in any state or federal court or with any administrative agency against any of the aforementioned parties in connection with or relating to any of the aforementioned matters. Provided, however, by executing this Release and Waiver, I, ________________, do not waive rights or claims that may arise after the date of execution; provided further, however, this Release and Waiver shall not affect my right to receive or enforce through litigation, any indemnification rights to which I am entitled as a result of my past employment by the Company or contract rights pursuant to the Agreement and Release and Waiver of Claims entered into contemporaneously herewith and, if applicable, any subsidiary of AT&T; and, provided further, this Release and Waiver shall not affect the ordinary distribution of benefits/entitlements, if any, to which I am entitled upon termination from Company; it being understood by me that said benefits/entitlements, if any, will be subject to and provided in accordance with the terms and conditions of their respective governing plan and this Agreement.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(a) The following terms shall have the meanings set forth below for purposes of this Schedule B to the Plan:
   
   
 shall mean a nationally recognized certified public accounting firm that is selected by the Company for purposes of making the applicable determinations hereunder and is reasonably acceptable to the Participant, which firm shall not, without the Participants consent, be a firm serving as accountant or auditor for the individual entity or group effecting the Change in Control.
Accounting Firm
 means the excise tax imposed by Section 4999 of the Code, together with any interest or penalties imposed with respect to such excise tax.
Excise Tax
 shall mean the present value (as determined in accordance with Sections 280G(b)(2)(A)(ii) and 280G(d)(4) of the Code) of a Payment net of all taxes imposed on the Participant with respect thereto under Sections 1 and 4999 of the Code and under applicable state and local laws, determined by applying the highest marginal rate under Section 1 of the Code and under state and local laws which applied to the Participants taxable income for the immediately preceding taxable year, or such other rate(s) as the Accounting Firm determined to be likely to apply to the Participant in the relevant tax year(s).
Net After-Tax Receipt
 of a Payment means the present value as of the date of the change in control for purposes of Section 280G of the Code of the portion of such Payment that constitutes a parachute payment under Section 280G(b)(2) of the Code, as determined by the Accounting Firm for purposes of determining whether and to what extent the Excise Tax will apply to such Payment.
Parachute Value
 means any payment or distribution in the nature of compensation (within the meaning of Section 280G(b)(2) of the Code) to or for the benefit of the Participant, whether paid or payable pursuant to this Plan or otherwise.
Payment
 has the meaning set forth in Paragraph (b) of this Schedule B.
Plan Payment
 means (x) 3.0 times the Participants base amount, within the meaning of Section 280G(b)(3) of the Code, minus (y) $1.00.
Safe Harbor Amount
 has the meaning set forth in Paragraph (d) of this Schedule B,
Underpayment
(b) Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan to the contrary, in the event an Accounting Firm shall determine that receipt of all Payments would subject the Participant to the excise tax under Section 4999 of the Code, the Accounting Firm shall determine whether to reduce any of the Payments paid or payable pursuant to this Plan (the ) so that the Parachute Value of all Payments, in the aggregate, equals the Safe Harbor Amount. The Plan Payments shall be so reduced only if the Accounting Firm determines that the Participant would have a greater  of aggregate Payments if the Plan Payments were so reduced.  If the Accounting Firm determines that the Participant would not have a greater Net After-Tax Receipt of aggregate Payments if the Plan Payments were so reduced, the Participant shall receive all Plan Payments to which the Participant is entitled hereunder.
   
Plan Payments
Net After-Tax Receipt
(c) If the Accounting Firm determines in accordance with Paragraph (b) of this Schedule B that the aggregate Plan Payments should be reduced so that the Parachute Value of all Payments, in the aggregate, equals the Safe Harbor Amount, the Company shall promptly give the Participant notice to that effect and a copy of the detailed calculation thereof. All determinations made by the Accounting Firm under this Schedule B shall be binding upon the Company and the Participant and shall be made as soon as reasonably practicable and in no event later than fifteen (15) days following the Date of Termination. For purposes of reducing the Plan Payments so that the Parachute Value of all Payments, in the aggregate, equals the Safe Harbor Amount, only amounts payable under this Plan (and no other Payments) shall be reduced.  The reduction of the Plan Payments, if applicable, shall be made by reducing the payments and benefits under the following sections in the following order: (1) any Plan Payments under Section 4.1(c), (2) any Plan Payments under Section 4.2(b), and (3) any Plan Payments under Section 6.2.  All fees and expenses of the Accounting Firm shall be borne solely by the Company.
   
(d) As a result of the uncertainty in the application of Section 4999 of the Code at the time of the initial determination by the Accounting Firm hereunder, it is possible that amounts will have been paid or distributed by the Company to or for the benefit of the Participant pursuant to this Plan which should have not been so paid or distributed () or that additional amounts which will have not been paid or distributed by the Company to or for the benefit of the Participant pursuant to this Plan could have been so paid or distributed (& #8221;), in each case, consistent with the calculation of the Safe Harbor Amount hereunder.  In the event that the Accounting Firm, based upon the assertion of the deficiency by the Internal Revenue Service against either the Company or the Participant which the Accounting Firm believes has a high probability of success, determines that an Overpayment has been made, the Participant shall pay promptly (and in no event later than sixty (60) days following the date on which the Overpayment is determined) pay any such Overpayment to the Company together with interest at the applicable federal rate provided for in Section 7872(f)(2) of the Code; provided, however, that no amount shall be payable by the Participant to the Company if and to the extent such payment would not either reduce the amount on which the Participant is subject to tax under Section 1 and Section 4999 of the Code or generate a refund of such taxes. In the event that the Accounting Firm, based upon controlling precedent or substantial authority, determines that the Underpayment has occurred, any such Underpayment shall be paid promptly (and in no event later than sixty (60) days following the date on which the Underpayment is determined) by the Company to or for the benefit of the Participant together with interest at the applicable federal rate provided for in Section 7872(f)(2) of the Code.
   
Overpayment
Underpayment
(e) To the extent requested by the Participant, the Company shall cooperate with the Participant in good faith in valuing, and the Accounting Firm shall take into account the value of, services provided or to be provided by the Participant (including without limitation, the Participants agreeing to refrain from performing services pursuant to a covenant not to compete or similar covenant) before, on or after the date of a change in ownership or control of the Company (within the meaning of Q&A-2(b) of the final regulations under Section 280G of the Code), such Payments in respect of such services may be considered reasonable compensation within the meaning of Q&A-9 and Q& ;A-40 to Q&A-44 of the final regulations under Section 280G of the Code and/or exempt from the definition of the term parachute payment within the meaning of Q&A-2(a) of the final regulations under Section 280G of the Code in accordance with Q&A-5(a) of the final regulations under Section 280G of the Code.
   
 
 
 

                                                                                      Exhibit 10-b 
1.
   
.
Purpose
 
The purpose of the 2005 Supplemental Employee Retirement Plan (the SERP or the "Plan") is to provide Participants with retirement benefits to supplement benefits payable pursuant to qualified group pension plans sponsored by AT&T or an affiliate of AT&T.  The Plan is a successor to the AT&T Supplemental Retirement Income Plan (SRIP) that was effective January 1, 1984 and which was amended, effective December 31, 2004, to cease accruals so that the benefits payable under the SRIP shall be grandfathered and administered in accordance with the provisions of the SRIP in a manner that does not invoke Section 409A of the Code.  The Plan is amended and restated herein, effective January 1, 2010.  In order for a Participant to accrue benefits on and after January 1, 2010 pursuant to Section 3.2 below, then the provisions of Section 8.2 shall apply.
 
2.
   
Definitions.
 
For purposes of this Plan, the following words and phrases shall have the meanings indicated, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise:
 
.  "Administrative Committee" means a Committee, consisting of the SEVP-HR and two or more other members designated by the SEVP-HR, which shall administer the Plan.
Administrative Committee
 
.  "Agreement" means the written agreement entered into between AT&T by its SEVP-HR and a Participant prior to January 1, 2009 to carry out the Plan with respect to such Participant.  No Agreements are necessary for Participants who become eligible to participate in the Plan on or after January 1, 2009.
Agreement
 
.  "AT&T" means AT&T Inc.
AT&T
 
.  "Beneficiary" shall mean any beneficiary or beneficiaries designated by the Participant pursuant to the AT&T Rules for Employee Beneficiary Designations as may hereafter be amended from time-to-time ("Rules").  If a Participant fails to execute a Beneficiary designation form with respect to Plan benefits, his or her Beneficiary designation form with respect to his SRIP benefits shall apply with respect to his Plan benefits.  If a Participant fails to execute a Beneficiary designation form with respect to Plan benefits and with respect to SRIP benefits, the default provisions in the Rules shall apply.
Beneficiary
 
  CEO or Chief Executive Officer shall mean the Chief Executive Officer of AT&T.
CEO or Chief Executive
Officer.
 
.  Disabled or "Disability" means the Participants (i) inability to engage in any substantial gainful activity by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment which can be expected to result in death or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than twelve (12) months, or (ii) is, by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment which can be expected to result in death or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than twelve (12) months, receiving income replacement benefits for a period of not less than three (3) months under an accident or health plan covering employees of the Participants employer.  The Adm inistrative Committee, in its complete and sole discretion, determines whether a Participant is Disabled.  The Administrative Committee may require that the Participant submit to an examination by a competent physician or medical clinic selected by the Administrative Committee.  On the basis of such medical evidence, the determination of the Administrative Committee as to whether or not a Participant is Disabled shall be conclusive.
Disabled or Disability
 
.  "Earnings" means for a given calendar year the Participant's: (1) bonus earned as a short term award during the calendar year but not exceeding 200% of the target amount of such bonus (or such other portion of the bonus or target bonus as may be determined by the Human Resources Committee of the Board of AT&T), plus (2) base salary before reduction due to any contribution pursuant to any deferred compensation plan or agreement sponsored by AT&T or an AT&T affiliate, including but not limited to compensation deferred in accordance with Sections 401(k), 125, or 132(f) of the Internal Revenue Code.
Earnings
 
.  "Final Average Earnings" means the average of the Participant's Monthly Earnings for the thirty-six (36) consecutive months out of the one hundred twenty (120) months next preceding the Participant's Termination of Employment which yields the highest average earnings.  If the Participant has fewer than thirty-six (36) months of employment, the average shall be taken over his or her period of employment.
Final Average Earnings
 
.  For a referenced calendar year, "GAAP Rate" means the interest rate used for valuing Plan liabilities on December 31 of the immediately preceding calendar year and for calculating periodic pension expense for the referenced calendar year, both for purposes of AT&T's financial statement reporting requirements.
GAAP Rate
.  Human Resources Committee means the Human Resources Committee of the AT&T Inc. Board of Directors.
Human Resources Committee
.  Immediate Annuity Value of any AT&T or affiliate Qualified Pensions shall have the meaning as provided in Attachment B.
Immediate Annuity Value of any AT&T or affiliate Qualified Pensions
 
.  "Immediate Annuity Value of SRIP" shall have the meaning as provided in Attachment C.
Immediate Annuity Value of SRIP
 
.  "Immediate Annuity Value of any AT&T or affiliate Non-Qualified Pensions other than SERP" shall have the meaning as provided in Attachment D.
Immediate Annuity Value of any other AT&T or affiliate Non-Qualified Pensions other than SERP
 
Mid-Career Hire means an individual whose Service Commencement Date is on or after the individuals thirty-fifth (35) birthday.
Mid-Career Hire
.  
th
 
.  "Monthly Earnings" means one-twelfth (1/12) of Earnings.
Monthly Earnings
 
.  "Mortality Tables" means the mortality tables as defined by Code Section 417(e) for valuing minimum lump sum benefits payable from qualified pension plans for the referenced period.
Mortality Tables
 
. "Officer" shall mean an individual who is designated as an officer level employee for compensation purposes on the records of AT&T.
Officer
. "Participant" means:
Participant
 
(a)
   
Any person who, as of close of business on December 31, 2004, was employed by an AT&T affiliate and was a participant in the SRIP; or
 
(b)
   
Any person who was a participant in the SRIP, terminated employment in 2004 and receives Earnings in 2005; or
 
(c)
   
An Officer of AT&T or an AT&T affiliate who is designated by the Human Resources Committee as eligible to participate in the Plan.
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing definition of Participant, the Human Resources Committee , may, at any time and from time to time, exclude any person or group of persons from being a Participant under this plan.
 
An individuals participation in SERP shall commence as of his or her SERP Effective Date.
 
.  "Retire" or "Retirement" shall mean the Termination of Employment of a Participant for reasons other than death, on or after the earlier of the following dates:  (1) the date the Participant is Retirement Eligible or (2) the date the Participant has attained one of the following combinations of age and service at Termination of Employment:
Retire or Retirement
 
                                                                          
Years of Service
Age
25 years or more                                                                50 or older
30 years or more                                                                Any age
 
.  "Retirement Eligible" or "Retirement Eligibility" means that a Participant has attained age 55 and has at least five (5) Years of Service.
Retirement Eligible
 
.  "Retirement Percent" means the percent specified in the Agreement with the Participant (if any) which establishes a Target Retirement Benefit (see Section 3.1) as a percentage of Final Average Earnings. For an individual who becomes a Participant on or after January 1, 2006, "Retirement Percent" means 50 percent unless otherwise provided by the Human Resources Committee of the Board of Directors of AT&T.
Retirement Percent
 
.  SERP Effective Date means the date of the written designation of the Participants eligibility to participate in SERP, signed by the CEO or authorized by the Human Resources Committee, as required by the Plan.
SERP Effective Date
 
.  SEVP-HR means AT&Ts Senior Executive Vice President responsible for Human Resources matters.
SEVP-HR
 
.  "Supplemental Retirement Income Plan or SRIP" means the AT&T Inc. Supplemental Retirement Income Plan effective January 1, 1984.
Supplemental Retirement Income Plan or SRIP
 
.  Service Commencement Date means the Participants employment commencement date with AT&T or any AT&T affiliate, as such date may be adjusted from time-to-time in accordance with rules, policies and procedures generally applied by AT&T to adjust for breaks in service or other periods of time, as reflected in AT&Ts or an AT&T affiliates records, all as determined in the discretion of the SEVP-HR.
Service Commencement Date
 
.  "Service Factor" means, unless otherwise agreed in writing by the Participant and AT&T, either (a) a deduction of 1.43 percent, or .715 percent for Mid-Career Hires, multiplied by the number by which (i) thirty-five (or thirty in the case of a Participant who is an Officer) exceeds (ii) the number of Years of Service of the Participant, or (b) a credit of 0.715 percent multiplied by the number by which (i) the number of Years of Service of the Participant exceeds (ii) thirty-five (or thirty in the case of a Participant who is an Officer).  For purposes of the above computation, a deduction shall result in the Service Factor being subtracted from the Retirement Percent whereas a credit shall result in the Service Fac tor being added to the Retirement Percent.
Service Factor
 
.  "Termination of Employment" means the ceasing of the Participant's employment from the AT&T controlled group of companies for any reason whatsoever, whether voluntarily or involuntarily.  A Participant will be deemed to have realized a Termination of Employment at any time that a Participant and the Administrative Committee reasonably anticipate that the bona fide level of services the Participant will perform (whether as an employee or an independent contractor) will be permanently reduced to a level that is less than fifty percent (50%) of the average level of bona fide services the Participant performed during the immediately preceding thirty-six (36) months (or the entire period the Participant has pr ovided services if the Participant has been providing services to the AT&T controlled group of companies less than thirty-six (36) months).
Termination of Employment
 
  A "Year" is a period of twelve (12) consecutive calendar months.
Year
.
 
.  "Years of Participation" means the number of each complete Years beginning with the Participants SERP Effective Date through each annual anniversary of such date.
Years of Participation
 
.  "Years of Service" means the number of each complete Years of full-time service as an employee of AT&T or an AT&T affiliate beginning with the Participants Service Commencement Date through each annual anniversary of such date, including service prior to the adoption of this Plan. Years of Service shall also include, without duplication, (i.) a Participants Years of service that are recognized for purposes of the BellSouth Corporation Supplemental Employee Retirement Plan, or (ii.) a Participants years of service on the Cingular Wireless payroll during the period beginning on 10/28/01 and ending on or prior to 12/31/04 that were recognized for purposes of the Cingular Wireless SBC Exec utive Transition Supplemental Retirement Income Plan, but that are not otherwise included pursuant to the immediately preceding sentence.
Years of Service
 
3.
   
.
Plan ("SERP") Benefits
 
 3.1
   
   
.
SERP Benefit Formula
 
With respect to (1) a Participant who was a participant in the SRIP prior to January 1, 1998, or (2) a Participant who, prior to January 1, 1998, was an officer of a Pacific Telesis Group ("PTG") company and became a participant in the SRIP after January 1, 1998, the amount of such Participants SERP Benefit is calculated as follows:
 
Final Average Earnings
                                                                                                                     
x Revised Retirement Percentage
= Target Retirement Benefit
- Immediate Annuity Value of any AT&T or affiliate Qualified Pensions
-
Immediate Annuity Value of any other AT&T or affiliate Non-
Qualified Pensions other than the SERP
= Target Benefit
     
-  Age Discount
= Annual Value of Life with 10 Year Certain SERP Benefit payable as a result of Termination of Employment Before SRIP Reduction
- Immediate Annuity Value of SRIP
= Annual Value of Life with 10 Year Certain SERP Benefit payable as a result of Termination of Employment
  
With respect to all other Participants, subject to the provisions of Attachment E, the amount of such Participants SERP Benefit is calculated as follows:
 
Final Average Earnings
                                                                                                                    ;  
X
Revised Retirement Percentage
=     Target Retirement Benefit
-                                                                                                                     
Age Discount
=     Discounted Target Benefit
-     Immediate Annuity Value of any AT&T or affiliate Qualified Pensions
- Immediate Annuity Value of SRIP
- I
mmediate Annuity Value of any other AT&T or affiliate Non-
Qualified Pensions other than SERP
= Annual Value of Life with 10 Year Certain SERP Benefit payable as a result of Termination of Employment
 
Where in both of the above cases the following apply:
 
(a)
   
Revised Retirement Percentage = Retirement Percent + Service Factor
 
(b)
   
For purposes of determining the Service Factor, the Participant's actual Years of Service as of the date of Termination of Employment, to the day, shall be used.  Mr. Randall Stephensons Service Factor shall be determined as of December 31, 2012, except in the event of his earlier Termination of Employment.
 
(c)
   
For purposes of determining the Final Average Earnings, the Participant's Earnings history as of the date of Termination of Employment shall be used.  Mr. Randall Stephensons Final Average Earnings shall be determined as of June 30, 2010.
 
(d)
   
Age Discount means the Participant's SERP Benefit shall be decreased by five-tenths of one percent (.5%) for each month that the date of the Participants Termination of Employment precedes the date on which the Participant will attain age 60.  Mr. Randall Stephensons Age Discount shall be determined as of December 31, 2012, except in the event of his earlier Termination of Employment.
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if at the time of Termination of Employment the Participant is, or has been within the one year period immediately preceding the Participant's Termination of Employment, an Officer with 30 or more Years of Service such Participant's Age Discount shall be zero.
 
Except to true up for an actual short term award paid following Termination of Employment, there shall be no recalculation of the value of a Participant's SERP Benefit hereunder following a Participant's Termination of Employment.
 
3.2.
   
.
Vesting
 
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Plan:
 
(a) upon any Termination of Employment of the Participant for a reason other than death or Disability, AT&T shall have no obligation to the Participant under this Plan if the Participant has less than five (5) Years of Service or, for Participants who are informed, in writing, of their SERP eligibility on or after September 28, 2006, less than four (4) Years of Participation, at the time of Termination of Employment; and
   
 
(b)the terms and conditions set forth in Section 8.2 shall apply to any benefits accrued on or after January 1, 2010, and in order for a Participant to accrue (or collect) such Plan benefits on or after January 1, 2010, the Participant must comply with the terms and conditions set forth in Section 8.2. 
   
 
4.
   
Election and Form of Distribution of SERP Benefits.
 
4.1  The normal form of a Participant's benefits hereunder shall be a Life with 10-Year Certain Benefit as described in Section 4.2(a). 
   
Normal Form.
 
4.2  Notwithstanding the normal form for distribution of a Participants SERP Benefits, a Participant may elect one of the following Benefit Payout Alternatives:
   
Election Alternatives.
 
(a)
   
.  An annuity payable during the longer of (i) the life of the Participant or (ii) the 10-year period commencing on the Participants Termination of Employment and ending on the day next preceding the tenth anniversary of such date (the "Life With 10-Year Certain Benefit").  If a Participant who is receiving a Life with 10-Year Certain Benefit dies prior to the expiration of the 10-year period described in this Section 4.2(a), the Participant's Beneficiary shall be entitled to receive the remaining Life With 10-Year Certain Benefit installments which would have been paid to the Participant had the Participant survived for the entire such 10-year period.
Life with a 10-Year Certain Benefit
 
(b)
   
.  A joint and one hundred percent (100%) survivor annuity payable for life to the Participant and at his or her death to his or her Beneficiary, in an amount equal to one hundred percent (100%) of the amount payable during the Participant's life, for life (the "Joint and 100% Survivor Benefit").
Joint and 100% Survivor Benefit
 
(c)
   
.  A joint and fifty percent (50%) survivor annuity payable for life to the Participant and at his or her death to his or her Beneficiary, in an amount equal to fifty percent (50%) of the amount payable during the Participant's life, for life (the "Joint and 50% Survivor Benefit").
Joint and 50% Survivor Benefit
 
(d)
   
.  A lump sum benefit, which shall apply only if the Participant has attained the age of fifty-five (55) years as of his or her Termination of Employment.  If a Participant elects a lump sum benefit but realizes a Termination of Employment prior to attaining age fifty-five (55), the Participants SERP Benefit shall be paid as provided in Section 4.2(a), 4.2(b) or 4.2(c), as elected or deemed elected by the Participant.
Lump Sum Benefit
 
Benefit Payout Alternatives described in Section 4.2(b), 4.2(c) and 4.2(d) shall be the actuarially determined equivalent (using the same reasonable actuarial assumptions and methods for valuing each Benefit Payout Alternative as determined by the SEVP-HR in his or her complete and sole discretion) of the Life With 10-Year Certain Benefit that is converted by such election.  The amount of a Participant's lump sum benefit shall be calculated as of the Participant's Termination of Employment by applying the Mortality Tables and the GAAP Rate, both as in effect for the calendar year immediately preceding the calendar year of the Participants Termination of Employment, but using the Participants age, Years of Service and other factors as of the Participants Termination of Employment.
 
The lump sum equivalent of Mr. Randall Stephensons frozen Target Retirement Benefit under the Plan shall be determined as of December 31, 2012 (except in the event of his earlier Termination of Employment) using factors and methodology to be determined by the Human Resources Committee.
 
4.3
   
.
Distribution Election
 
(a)
   
.  An individual who was a Participant on or before December 31, 2008 may make an irrevocable election of a Benefit Payout Alternative before the earlier of December 31 of the year immediately preceding his or her Termination of Employment or December 31, 2008 by delivery of such election, in writing, telecopy, email or in another electronic format, pursuant to or as instructed by the SEVP-HR (as determined by the SEVP-HR in his or her sole and absolute discretion).
Individual Who Is A Participant On or Before December 31, 2008
 
(b)
   
.  An individual who becomes a Participant after December 31, 2008 may make an irrevocable election of a Benefit Payout Alternative no later than the thirtieth (30) day immediately following the Participants SERP Effective Date by delivery of such election in writing, telecopy, email or in another electronic format, pursuant to or as instructed by the SEVP-HR (as determined by the SEVP-HR in his or her sole and absolute discretion).
Individual Who Becomes A Participant After December 31, 2008
th
 
(c)
   
.  If a Participant fails to make a timely election of a Benefit Payout Alternative as provided in Section 4.3(a) or 4.3(b), such Participant shall be deemed to have elected and such Participant's form of benefit shall be the Life With 10-Year Certain Benefit described in Section 4.2(a).
Failure to Timely Make a Distribution Election
(d)
   
.  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Plan to the contrary, in the event of the death of a designated annuitant during the life of the Participant, the Participant's election to have a Benefit Payout Alternative described in Section 4.2(b) or 4.2(c) shall, without any action by the Participant, be revoked, and the Participants benefit, or remaining benefit, under the Plan, as the case may be, shall be paid as provided in Section 4.2(a).  Any conversion of benefit from one form to another pursuant to the provisions of this paragraph shall use the sam e reasonable actuarial assumptions and methods for valuing each annuity form of benefit before and after the death of the designated annuitant and shall be subject to actuarial adjustment (as determined by the SEVP-HR in his or her complete and sole discretion) such that the Participant's new benefit is the actuarial equivalent of the Participant's remaining prior form of benefit.  Payments pursuant to Participant's new form of benefit shall be effective commencing with the first monthly payment for the month following the death of the annuitant.
Death of or Divorce from Annuitant During Participants Lifetime
 
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Plan to the contrary, in the event of the divorce or legal separation of the Participant, the Participants election to have a Benefit Payout Alternative described in Section 4.2(b) or 4.2(c), with a survivor annuity for the benefit of the Participant's former spouse as Beneficiary, shall, without any action by the Participant, be revoked, and the Participant's benefit, or remaining benefit, under the Plan, as the case may be, shall be paid as provided in Section 4.2(a) (using the same reasonable actuarial assumptions and methods for valuing each annuity form of benefit before and after the divorce or legal separation  and shall be subject to actuarial adjustment (as determined by the SEVP-HR in his or her complete and sole discretion).  In such event, the 10-Year period as desc ribed in Section 4.2(a) shall be the same 10-year period as if such form of benefit was the form of benefit originally selected and the expiration date of such period shall not be extended beyond its original expiration date.  Payments pursuant to Participants new form of benefit shall be effective commencing with the first monthly payment following notice from the Participant to the SEVP-HR after the divorce (or legal separation) becomes final.
 
(e)
   
.  A Participant who elects a lump sum benefit under Section 4.2(d) must, contemporaneous with such Lump Sum Benefit election, elect a specific number of year(s), not to exceed twenty (20) years, following his or her Termination of Employment upon which the lump sum benefit (including any interest accrued thereon) shall be distributed; ,
Special Provisions for Lump Sum Benefit Election
provided,
however
 
(i) the Participant may not receive more than thirty percent (30%) of his or her lump sum benefit (excluding any interest thereon) until the third (3) anniversary of his or her Termination of Employment; , , if the Participant is age sixty (60) or older as of his or her Termination of Employment, the Participant, if elected in his or her timely filed election of a Benefit Payout Alternative, may receive one hundred percent (100%) of his or her lump sum benefit upon the day that is six (6) months following his or her Termination of Employment if he or she agrees, in writing, substantially in the form provided in Attachment A, n ot to compete with an Employer Business within the meaning of Section 8.2 for a period of three (3) years from such Participants Termination of Employment and further agrees that if he or she fails to abide by such agreement, the non-compete agreement is challenged, or the non-compete agreement is unenforceable, he or she shall forfeit all benefits hereunder and repay the lump sum benefit to AT&T; and
   
rd
provided
however
 
(ii) prior to distribution of the Participants lump sum benefit, interest on such lump sum benefit shall accrue and shall be added to the Participants lump sum benefit or distributed monthly, as elected by the Participant in his or her election of a Benefit Payout Alternative.
   
 
A Participants lump sum benefit payment schedule must comply with the rules for payment schedules as adopted by the SEVP-HR (as determined by the SEVP-HR in his or her sole and absolute discretion), which, for example, may require payment of principal to be made no more frequently than once per calendar year.
 
If the payment schedule elected by a Participant does not comply with the rules for payment schedules, (i) thirty percent (30%) of such Participants lump sum benefit shall be paid to the Participant upon the date that is six (6) months following the Participants Termination of Employment, and (ii) the remaining seventy percent (70%) shall be paid to the Participant on the third (3) anniversary of such Participants Termination of Employment.
rd
 
(f)
   
.  From and after a Participants Termination of Employment, the SEVP-HR shall maintain records of a lump sum benefit account balance for each Participant who elected a lump sum benefit.  During such period of time that all or any portion of a Participants lump sum benefit is not paid, interest shall be credited using the same methodology used by AT&T for financial accounting purposes using the GAAP Rate that was used to calculate such Participants lump sum benefit.  Payments of principal and interest shall be deducted from the lump sum benefit account balance.  
Lump Sum Benefit or Frozen Account Balance
Interest shall accrue on the lump sum equivalent of Mr. Randall Stephensons frozen Target Retirement Benefit under the Plan and on any previously accrued interest at a rate to be determined by the Human Resources Committee.
 
A Participant whose employment has not terminated may change a prior distribution election at any time on or before December 31, 2008, provided, however, if the Participants employment terminates for any reason in the calendar year in which the new distribution election is filed, such new election shall be null and void.  In the event the Participants new election is null and void, the Participants prior election, if any, shall apply.  If there is no prior election, the Plans default distribution provisions shall apply.
 
5.
   
.
Death or Disability Benefits
 
5.1
  
D
.
eath Following Termination of Employment
 
If a Participant who has commenced payment of his or her SERP benefit hereunder dies, his or her Beneficiary shall be entitled to receive the remaining SERP benefit in accordance with the Benefit Payout Alternative elected or deemed elected by the Participant.
 
5.2
   
Death Prior to Termination of Employment
 
If a Participant dies prior to his or her Termination of Employment, a pre-retirement death benefit will be calculated and paid as though the Participant had Retired  (determined without regard to the 5 Years of Service or the 4 Years of Participation requirements) on the day prior to the date of death.  The pre-retirement death benefit shall be paid at such time and in such form as timely elected or deemed elected by the Participant; provided, if the Participant elected or is deemed to have elected any form of an annuity, such pre-retirement death benefit shall be paid as a Beneficiary Life Annuity (as such term is hereinafter described) based on the life expectancy of the Beneficiary, and, if the Participant elected or is deemed to have elected a Life with a 10-Year Certain Benefit, such Beneficiary Life Annuity sha ll continue for the longer of (i) the Beneficiarys life, or (ii) the 10 year period commencing on the Participants death.  If paid as a Beneficiary Life Annuity, such benefit shall be the actuarially determined equivalent using the same reasonable actuarial assumptions and methods (as determined by the SEVP-HR in his or her complete and sole discretion) of the Life With 10-Year Certain Benefit that would have been paid to the Participant had he or she Retired on the day immediately prior to his or her death.  If the Participant had timely elected and qualified to receive a Lump Sum Benefit, it shall be calculated in the same manner as provided in Section 4.2 as if the Participant were alive; e.g., calculated as of the Participant's death applying the Mortality Tables and the GAAP Rate, both as in effect for the calendar year immediately preceding the calendar year of the Participants death, but using the Participants age, Years of Service and other factors as o f the Participants date of death.
 
5.3
   
.
Disability
 
Upon a Participant's Termination of Employment and contemporaneous qualification for receipt of long term disability benefits under an AT&T or AT&T affiliate sponsored long term disability benefit plan in which the Participant participates prior to being Retirement Eligible (without regard to the 5 Years of Service or 4 Years of Participation requirements), the Participant will continue to accrue Years of Service during such disability until the earliest of his or her:
 
(a)
   
Recovery from Disability,
 
(b)
   
Retirement (determined without regard to the 5 Years of Service or 4 Years of Participation
 requirements), or
   
   
 
(c) Death.
   
 
Upon the occurrence of either (a) Participant's recovery from Disability prior to his or her Retirement Eligibility if Participant does not return to employment, or (b) Participant's Retirement (determined without regard to the 5 Years of Service or 4 Years of Participation requirements), the Participant shall be entitled to receive a SERP Benefit as if he or she realized a Termination of Employment as of the date of such occurrence.
 
For purposes of calculating the foregoing benefit, the Participant's Final Average Earnings shall be determined using his or her Earnings history as of the date of his or her Disability.
 
If a Participant who continues to have a Disability dies prior to his or her Retirement Eligibility (without regard to the 5 Years of Service or 4 Years of Participation requirements), the Participant will be treated in the same manner as if he or she had died while in employment (See Section 5.2).
 
6.
   
.
Payment of Benefits
 
6.1.
  
.
Commencement of Payments
 
(a)
   
Except as provided in Section 5.3, benefit payments shall commence pursuant to the Benefit Payout Alternative elected by the Participant in his or her Agreement on the date that is six (6) months following his or her Termination of Employment; provided, however, if the Participant dies after Termination of Employment and prior to the lapse of such six (6) month period, benefit payments shall commence upon the Participants death.  If a Participant elected (or is deemed to have elected) an annuity form of benefit under Section 4.2(a), 4.2(b) or 4.2(c), the aggregate monthly amount that would be paid between the Participants Termination of Employment through the date that benefit payments actually commence, shall be paid in a lump sum on the date that benefit payments actually commence hereunder.  In addition, during the period of time between a Participants Termination of Employment and the date that annuity payments hereunder actually commence, interest shall be credited on the withheld annuity amounts for such period of time that each annuity payment is withheld.  The credited interest shall be paid in a lump sum on the date that payments hereunder actually commence.  Interest shall be credited using the GAAP Rate in effect for the calendar year immediately preceding the calendar year of the Participants Termination of Employment.
 
(b)
   
Notwithstanding the designation of a specific date for commencement of payment of a distribution hereunder, commencement of payments under this Plan may be delayed for administrative reasons in the discretion of the SEVP-HR, but shall begin not later than sixty (60) days following the date upon which payment(s) would otherwise commence under this Plan. A Participant shall not have the right to designate or participate in the decision as to the taxable year of benefit commencement.
 
6.2
   
.
Withholding; Unemployment Taxes
 
(a)
   
A payment may be made from the Plan to reflect the payment of state, local, or foreign tax obligations arising from participation in the Plan that apply to an amount deferred under the Plan before the amount is paid or made available to a Participant (the State, Local, or Foreign Tax Amount).  Such payment may not exceed the amount of such taxes due as a result of participation in the Plan.  Such payment may be made by distributions to the Participant in the form of withholding pursuant to provisions of applicable state, local, or foreign law or by distribution directly to the Participant.  Additionally, a payment may be made from the Plan to pay the income tax at source on wages imposed under Code Section 3401 as a result of the payment of the State, Local, or Foreign Tax Amount and to pay the additional income tax at source on wages attributable to such additional Code Section 3401 wages and taxes.  However, the total payment under this Section 6.2(a) shall not exceed the aggregate of the State, Local, or Foreign Tax Amount and the income tax withholding related to such State, Local, or Foreign Tax Amount.
 
(b)
   
A payment may be made from the Plan to pay the Federal Insurance Contributions Act tax imposed by Code Sections 3101, 3121(a), and 3121(v)(2) on compensation deferred under the Plan (the FICA Amount).  Additionally, a payment may be made from the Plan to pay the income tax at source on wages imposed under Code Section 3401 or the corresponding withholding provisions of applicable state, local or foreign tax laws as a result of the payment of the FICA Amount and to pay the additional income tax at source on wages attributable to the pyramiding section 3401 wages and taxes.  However, the total payment under this Section 6.2(b) shall not exceed the aggregate of the FICA Amount and the income tax withholding related to such FICA Amount.
 
6.3
   
.
Recipients of Payments; Designation of Beneficiary
 
All payments to be made under the Plan shall be made to the Participant during his or her lifetime, provided that if the Participant dies prior to the completion of such payments, then all subsequent payments under the Plan shall be made to the Participant's Beneficiary or Beneficiaries.
 
In the event of the death of a Participant, distributions/benefits under this Plan shall pass to the Beneficiary (ies) designated by the Participant in accordance with this Plan and the Rules.
 
.
6.4
   
No Other Benefits
 
No benefits shall be paid hereunder to the Participant or his or her Beneficiary except as specifically provided herein.
 
6.5
   
.
Small Benefit
 
Notwithstanding any election made by the Participant, the SEVP-HR in his or her sole discretion may pay any benefit in the form of a lump sum payment if (A) the lump sum equivalent amount is or would be less than the applicable dollar amount under Code Section 402(g)(1)(B) when payment of such benefit would otherwise commence, and (B) the payment of the lump sum equivalent amount results in the termination and liquidation of the entirety of the Participants interest under the Plan and under any other plan that is considered a single nonqualified deferred compensation plan under Treasury Regulations Section 1.409A-1(c)(2).
 
7.
   
.
Conditions Related to Benefits
 
7.1
   
Administration of Plan.
 
The Administrative Committee and the SEVP-HR with respect to specific functions identified in the Plan, shall be the sole administrators of the Plan and will, in their discretion, administer, interpret, construe and apply the Plan in accordance with its terms.  The Administrative Committee or the SEVP-HR shall further establish, adopt or revise such rules and regulations as each may deem necessary or advisable for the administration of the Plan.  The Administrative Committee shall serve as the Plans administrator within the meaning of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, and regulations thereunder (ERISA).  All decisions of the Administrative Committee or the SEVP-HR shall be final and binding unless the Board of Directors should determine otherw ise.
 
7.2.
   
No Right to AT&T Assets
 
Neither a Participant nor any other person shall acquire by reason of the Plan any right in or title to any assets, funds or property of any AT&T company whatsoever including, without limiting the generality of the foregoing, any specific funds or assets which AT&T, in its sole discretion, may set aside in anticipation of a liability hereunder, nor in or to any policy or policies of insurance on the life of a Participant owned by AT&T.  No trust shall be created in connection with or by the execution or adoption of this Plan or any Agreement, and any benefits which become payable hereunder shall be paid from the general assets of AT&T.  A Participant shall have only a contractual right to the amounts, if any, payable hereunder unsecured by any asset of AT&T.
 
7.3
   
Trust Fund.
 
AT&T shall be responsible for the payment of all benefits provided under the Plan.  At its discretion, AT&T may establish one or more trusts, for the purpose of providing for the payment of such benefits.  Such trust or trusts may be irrevocable, but the assets thereof shall be subject to the claims of AT&T's creditors.  To the extent any benefits provided under the Plan are actually paid from any such trust, AT&T shall have no further obligation with respect thereto, but to the extent not so paid, such benefits shall remain the obligation of, and shall be paid by AT&T.
 
7.4
   
.
No Employment Rights
 
Nothing herein shall constitute a contract of continuing employment or in any manner obligate any AT&T company to continue the service of a Participant, or obligate a Participant to continue in the service of any AT&T company and nothing herein shall be construed as fixing or regulating the compensation paid to a Participant.
 
7.5
   
.
Modification or Termination of Plan
 
This Plan may be modified or terminated at any time in accordance with the provisions of AT&T's Schedule of Authorizations.  A modification may affect present and future Participants, provided that any prospective amendment or restatement of the Plan shall not apply to any benefits accrued prior to such amendment or restatement.   AT&T also reserves the sole right to terminate at any time any or all Agreements.  In the event of termination of the Plan or of a Participant's Agreement, a Participant shall be entitled to benefits hereunder, if prior to the date of termination of the Plan or of his or her Agreement, such Participant has attained 5 Years of Service and, if applicable, 4 Years of Participation, in which case, regardless of the termination of the Plan/Participant's Agreement, such Part icipant shall be entitled to benefits at such time as provided in and as otherwise in accordance with the Plan and his or her Agreement, provided, however, a Participant's benefit shall be computed as if the Participant had realized a Termination of Employment as of the date of termination of the Plan or of his or her Agreement; provided further, however, a Participant's service subsequent to Plan/Agreement termination shall be recognized for purposes of reducing or eliminating the Age discount provided for by Section 3.1(d).  No amendment, including an amendment to this Section 7.5, shall be effective, without the written consent of a Participant, to alter, to the detriment of such Participant, the benefits described in this Plan as applicable to such Participant as of the effective date of such amendment.  For purposes of this Section 7.5, an alteration to the detriment of a Participant shall mean a reduction in the amount payable hereunder to a Participant to which such Participant wou ld be entitled if such Participant realized a Termination of Employment at such time, or any change in the form of benefit payable hereunder to a Participant to which such Participant would be entitled if such Participant realized a Termination of Employment at such time.  Any amendment which reduces a Participant's benefit hereunder to adjust for a change in his or her pension benefit resulting from an amendment to any company-sponsored defined benefit pension plan which changes the pension benefits payable to all employees, shall not require the Participant's consent.  Written notice of any amendment shall be given to each Participant.
 
7.6
   
Offset.
 
If at the time payments or installments of payments are to be made hereunder, a Participant or his or her Beneficiary or both are indebted to AT&T or any AT&T affiliate as a result of debt incurred in the ordinary course of the employment relationship between the Participant and the AT&T company, then, annually, up to $5,000 of the payments remaining to be made to the Participant or his or her Beneficiary or both, may, at the discretion of the SEVP-HR, be reduced by the amount of such indebtedness; provided, however, that the reduction must be made at the same time and in the same amount as the debt otherwise would have been due and collected from the Participant or his or her Beneficiary; provided, further, however, that an election by the Board of Directors not to reduce any such payment or payments shall not constitute a w aiver of such AT&T company's claim for such indebtedness.
 
7.7
   
Change in Status.
 
In the event of a change in the employment status of a Participant to a status in which he is no longer an Participant, the Participant shall immediately cease to be eligible for any benefits under this Plan except such benefits as had previously vested.  Only Participant's Years of Service and Earnings history prior to the change in his employment status shall be taken into account for purposes of determining Participant's vested benefits hereunder.
 
8.
   
.
Miscellaneous
 
8.1
   
Nonassignability.
 
Neither a Participant nor any other person shall have any right to commute, sell, assign, transfer, pledge, anticipate, mortgage or otherwise encumber, transfer, hypothecate or convey in advance of actual receipt of the amounts, if any, payable hereunder, or any part thereof, which are, and all rights to which are, expressly declared to be unassignable and non-transferable.  No part of the amounts payable shall, prior to actual payment, be subject to seizure or sequestration for the payment of any debts, judgments, alimony or separate maintenance owed by a Participant or any other person, nor be transferable by operation of law in the event of a Participant's or any other person's bankruptcy or insolvency.
 
8.2
   
.
Non-Competition
 
AT&T would be unwilling to provide Plan benefits but for the loyalty conditions and covenants set forth in this Section 8.2, and the conditions and covenants herein are a material inducement to AT&Ts willingness to sponsor the Plan and to offer Plan benefits for the Participants on or after January 1, 2010.  Accordingly, as a condition of accruing and/or receiving any Plan benefits on or after January 1, 2010, each Participant is deemed to agree that he shall not, without obtaining the written consent of AT&T in advance, participate in activities that constitute engaging in competition with AT&T or engaging in conduct disloyal to AT&T, as those terms are defined in this Section 8.2.  Further, notwithstanding any other provision of this Plan, all benefits provided under the Plan with respect to a Participant shall be subject to the enforcement provisions of this Section 8.2 if the Participant, without the consent of AT&T, participates in an activity that constitutes engaging in competition with AT&T or engaging in conduct disloyal to AT&T, as so defined below.  Furthermore, for benefits accrued before January 1, 2010, the provisions of this Section 8.2 as in effect immediately before such date shall also be applicable to the Participants Plan benefits, with such provisions and those herein being each separately applicable and effective.
 
(a) Definitions.  For purposes of this Section 8.2 and of the Plan generally:
   
 
(i)
  
an Employer Business shall mean AT&T, any subsidiary of AT&T, or any business in which AT&T or a subsidiary or affiliated company of AT&T has a substantial interest or joint venture interest;
 
(ii) "engaging in competition with AT&T shall mean, while employed by an Employer Business or within two (2) years after the Participants Termination of Employment, engaging by the Participant in any
   
business or activity in all or any portion of the same geographical market where the same or substantially similar business or activity is being carried on by an Employer business.  Engaging in competition with AT&T shall not include owning a nonsubstantial publicly traded interest as a shareholder in a business that competes with an Employer Business.  However, engaging in competition with AT&T shall include representing or providing consulting services to, or being an employee or director of, an y person or entity that is engaged in competition with any Employer Business or that takes a position adverse to any Employer Business.
 
(iii)
   
engaging in disloy
al conduct disloyal to AT&T means, while employed by an Employer Business or within two  (2) years after the Participants Termination of Employment, (i) soliciting for employment or hire, whether as an employee or as an independent contractor, for any business in competition with an Employer Business, any person employed by AT&T or its affiliates during the one (1) year prior to Participants Termination of Employment, whether or not acceptance of such position would constitute a breach of such persons contractual obligations to AT&T and its affiliates; (ii) soliciting, encouraging, or inducing any vendor or supplier with which Participant had business contact on behalf of any Employer Business during the two (2) years prior to Participants Termination of Employment, to terminate, discontinue, renegotiate, reduce, or otherwise cease or modify its relationship with AT&T or its affiliate; or (iii) soliciting, encouraging, or inducing any customer or active prospective customer with whom Participant had business contact, whether in person or by other media (Customer), on behalf of any Employer Business during the two (2) years prior to Participants Termination of Employment, to terminate, discontinue, renegotiate, reduce, or otherwise cease or modify its relationship with any Employer Business, or to purchase competing goods or services from a business competing with any Employer Business, or accepting or servicing business from such Customer on behalf of himself or any other business.   ;Engaging in conduct disloyal to AT&T also means, disclosing Confidential Information to any third party or using Confidential Information, other than for an Employer Business, or failing to return any Confidential Information to the Employer Business following termination of employment.
 
(iv)Confidential Information shall mean all information belonging to, or otherwise relating to, an Employer Business, which is not generally known, regardless of the manner in which it is stored or conveyed to Participant, and which the Employer Business has taken reasonable measures under the circumstances to protect from unauthorized use or disclosure.  Confidential Information includes trade secrets as well as other proprietary knowledge, information, know-how, and non-public intellectual property rights, including unpublished or pending patent applications and all related patent rights, formulae, processes, discoveries, improvements, ideas, conceptions, compilations of data, and data, whether or not patentable or copyrightable and wheth er or not it has been conceived, originated, discovered, or developed in whole or in part by Participant.  For example, Confidential Information includes, but is not limited to, information concerning the Employer Business business plans, budgets, operations, products, strategies, marketing, sales, inventions, designs, costs, legal strategies, finances, employees, customers, prospective customers, licensees, or licensors; information received from third parties under confidential conditions; or other valuable financial, commercial, business, technical or marketing information concerning the Employer Business, or any of the products or services made, developed or sold by the Employer Business.  Confidential Information does not include information that (i) was generally known to the public at the time of disclosure; (ii) was lawfully received by Participant from a third party; (iii) was known to Participant prior to receipt from the Employer Business; or (iv) was independently devel oped by Participant or independent third parties; in each of the foregoing circumstances, this exception applies only if such public knowledge or possession by an independent third party was without breach by Participant or any third party of any obligation of confidentiality or non-use, including but not limited to the obligations and restrictions set forth in this Plan.
   
 
 (b).  A Participants right to receive benefits accrued on or after January 1, 2010 shall terminate and no benefits accrued on or after January 1, 2010 shall be provided under this Plan if the Administrative Committee determines that, within the time period and without the written consent specified, Participant has been either engaging in competitive activity with AT&T or engaging in conduct disloyal to AT&T.
   
   
Forfeiture of Benefits
 
 (c)  The parties recognize (i) that any Participants breach of any of the covenants in this Section 8.2 will cause irreparable injury to AT&T, and will represent a failure of the consideration under which AT&T (in its capacity as creator and sponsor of the Plan) agreed to provide the Participant with the opportunity to accrue or receive Plan benefits on and after January 1, 2010, and (ii) that monetary damages would not provide AT&T with an adequate or complete remedy that would warrant AT&Ts continued sponsorship of the Plan and payment of Plan benefits for all Participants.  Accordingly, in the even t of a Participants actual or threatened breach of covenants in this Section 8.2, the Administrative Committee, in addition to all other rights and acting as a fiduciary under ERISA on behalf of all Participants, shall have a fiduciary duty (in order to assure that AT&T receives fair and promised consideration for its continued Plan sponsorship and funding) to seek an injunction restraining the Participant from breaching the covenants in this Section 8.2.  To enforce its repayment rights with respect to a Participant, the Plan shall have a first priority, equitable lien on all Plan benefits that are paid to the Participant.  In addition, AT&T shall pay for any Plan expenses that the Administrative Committee incurs hereunder, and shall be entitled to recover from the Participant its reasonable attorneys fees and costs incurred in obtaining such injunctive remedies.  In the event the Administrative Committee succeeds in enforcing the terms of this Section thr ough a written settlement with the Participant or a court order granting an injunction hereunder, the Participant shall be entitled to collect Plan benefits prospectively, if the Participant is otherwise entitled to such benefits, net of any fees and costs assessed pursuant hereto (which fees and costs shall be paid to AT&T as a repayment on behalf of the Participant), provided that the Participant complies with said settlement or injunction.
   
   
Equitable Relief
.
 
(d).  In recognition of AT&Ts need for nationally uniform standards for the Plan administration, it is an absolute condition in consideration of any Participants accrual or receipt of benefits under the Plan on or after January 1, 2010 that each and all of the following conditions apply to all Participants and to any benefits that are accrued on or after January 1, 2010 and that are thereafter paid or are payable under the Plan:
   
Uniform Enforcement
   
   
 
(i)
   
ERISA shall control all issues and controversies hereunder, and the Administrative Committee shall serve for purposes hereof as a fiduciary of the Plan and as its named fiduciary within the meaning of ERISA.
 
(ii)
   
All litigation between the parties relating to this Section shall occur in federal court, which shall have exclusive jurisdiction, any such litigation shall be held in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Texas, and the only remedies available with respect to the Plan shall be those provided under ERISA.
 
(iii)
   
If the Administrative Committee determines in its sole discretion either (I) that AT&T or its affiliate that employed the Participant terminated the Participants employment for cause, or (II) that equitable relief enforcing the Participants covenants under this Section 8.2 is either not reasonably available, not ordered by a court of competent jurisdiction, or circumvented because the Participant has sued in state court, or has otherwise sought remedies not available under ERISA, then in any and all of such instances the Participant shall not be entitled to collect any Plan benefits accrued on or after January 1, 2010, and if any such Plan benefits have been paid to the Participant, the Participant shall immediately repay all such Plan benefits to the Plan (which shall be used to pay Plan ad ministrative expenses or Plan benefits) upon written demand from the Administrative Committee.  Furthermore, the Participant shall hold AT&T and its affiliates harmless from any loss, expense, or damage that may arise from any of the conduct described in clauses (I) and (II) hereof.
 
8.3
   
.
Notice
 
Any notice required or permitted to be given to the Administrative Committee or the SEVP-HR under the Plan shall be sufficient if in writing and hand delivered, or sent by certified mail, to the principal office of AT&T, directed to the attention of the SEVP-HR.  Any notice required or permitted to be given to a Participant shall be sufficient if in writing and hand delivered, or sent by certified mail, to Participant at Participant's last known mailing address as reflected on the records of his or her employing company or the company from which the Participant incurred a Termination of Employment, as applicable.  Notice shall be deemed given as of the date of delivery or, if delivery is made by mail, as of the date shown on the postmark or on the receipt for certification.
 
8.4
   
.
Validity
 
In the event any provision of this Plan is held invalid, void or unenforceable, the same shall not affect, in any respect whatsoever, the validity of any other provision of this plan.
 
8.5
   
.
Applicable Law
 
This Plan shall be governed and construed in accordance with ERISA, and the laws of the State of Texas to the extent not preempted by ERISA.
 
9.
   
.
Claims and Appeal
 
9.1
   
Claims.
 
A person who believes that he or she is being denied a benefit to which he or she is entitled under this Plan (hereinafter referred to as a Claimant) may file a written request for such benefit with the Executive Compensation Administration Department, setting forth his or her claim. The request must be addressed to the AT&T Executive Compensation Department at its then principal place of business.
 
9.2
   
.
Claim Decision
 
Upon receipt of a claim, the AT&T Executive Compensation Department shall review the claim and provide the Claimant with a written notice of its decision within a reasonable period of time, not to exceed ninety (90) days, after the claim is received. If the AT&T Executive Compensation Department determines that special circumstances require an extension of time beyond the initial ninety (90)-day claim review period, the AT&T Executive Compensation Department shall notify the Claimant in writing within the initial ninety (90)-day period and explain the special circumstances that require the extension and state the date by which the AT&T Executive Compensation Department expects to render its decision on the claim. If this notice is provided, the AT&T Executive Compensation Department may take up to an additional ninety (90) days (for a total of one hundred eighty (180) days after receipt of the claim) to render its decision on the claim.
 
If the claim is denied by the AT&T Executive Compensation Department, in whole or in part, the AT&T Executive Compensation Department shall provide a written decision using language calculated to be understood by the Claimant and setting forth:  (i) the specific reason or reasons for such denial; (ii) specific references to pertinent provisions of this Plan on which such denial is based; (iii) a description of any additional material or information necessary for the Claimant to perfect his or her claim and an explanation of why such material or such information is necessary; (iv) a description of the Plans procedures for review of denied claims and the steps to be taken if the Claimant wishes to submit the claim for review; (v) the time limits for requesting a review of a denied claim under Section 9.3 and for co nducting the review under Section 9.4; and (vi) a statement of the Claimants right to bring a civil action under Section 502(a) of ERISA if the claim is denied following review under Section 9.4.
 
9.3
   
.
Request for Review
 
Within sixty (60) days after the receipt by the Claimant of the written decision on the claim provided for in Section 9.2, the Claimant may request in writing that the Administrative Committee review the determination of the AT&T Executive Compensation Department. Such request must be addressed to the Administrative Committee at the address for giving notice pursuant to Section 8.3. To assist the Claimant in deciding whether to request a review of a denied claim or in preparing a request for review of a denied claim, a Claimant shall be provided, upon written request to the Administrative Committee and free of charge, reasonable access to, and copies of, all documents, records and other information relevant to the claim. The Claimant or his or her duly authorized representative may, but need not, submit a statement of the issues and comments in writing, as well as other documents, records or other information relating to the claim for consideration by the Administrative Committee. If the Claimant does not request a review of the AT&T Executive Compensation Departments decision by the Administrative Committee within such sixty (60)-day period, the Claimant shall be barred and estopped from challenging the determination of the AT&T Executive Compensation Department.
 
9.4
   
.
Review of Decision
 
  Within sixty (60) days after the Administrators receipt of a request for review, the Administrative Committee will review the decision of the AT&T Executive Compensation Department. If the Administrative Committee determines that special circumstances require an extension of time beyond the initial sixty (60)-day review period, the Administrative Committee shall notify the Claimant in writing within the initial sixty (60)-day period and explain the special circumstances that require the extension and state the date by which the Administrative Committee expects to render its decision on the review of the claim.  If this notice is provided, the Administrative Committee may take up to an additional sixty (60) days (for a total of one hundred twenty (120) days after receipt of the request for review) to render its decision on the review of the claim.
Review of Decision.
 
During its review of the claim, the Administrative Committee shall:
 
(a) Take into account all comments, documents, records, and other information submitted by the Claimant relating to the claim, without regard to whether such information was submitted or considered in the initial review of the claim conducted pursuant to Section 9.2;
   
 
(b) Follow reasonable procedures to verify that its benefit determination is made in accordance
   
  with the applicable Plan documents; and
   
   
 
(c) Follow reasonable procedures to ensure that the applicable Plan provisions are applied to the
   
  Participant to whom the claim relates in a manner consistent with how such provisions have been applied to other similarly-situated Participants.
   
   
 
After considering all materials presented by the Claimant, the Administrative Committee will render a decision, written in a manner designed to be understood by the Claimant. If the Administrative Committee denies the claim on review, the written decision will include (i) the specific reasons for the decision; (ii) specific references to the pertinent provisions of this Plan on which the decision is based; (iii) a statement that the Claimant is entitled to receive, upon request to the Administrative Committee and free of charge, reasonable access to, and copies of, all documents, records, and other information relevant to the claim; and (iv) a statement of the Claimants right to bring a civil action under Section 502(a) of ERISA.
 
During its review of the claim, the Administrative Committee shall:
 
(a) Take into account all comments, documents, records, and other information submitted by the Claimant relating to the claim, without regard to whether such information was submitted or considered in the initial review of the claim conducted pursuant to Section 9.2;
   
 
(b) Follow reasonable procedures to verify that its benefit determination is made in accordance with the applicable Plan documents; and
   
 
(c) Follow reasonable procedures to ensure that the applicable Plan provisions are applied to the Participant to whom the claim relates in a manner consistent with how such provisions have been applied to other similarly-situated Participants.
   
 
After considering all materials presented by the Claimant, the Administrative Committee will render a decision, written in a manner designed to be understood by the Claimant. If the Administrative Committee denies the claim on review, the written decision will include (i) the specific reasons for the decision; (ii) specific references to the pertinent provisions of this Plan on which the decision is based; (iii) a statement that the Claimant is entitled to receive, upon request to the Administrative Committee and free of charge, reasonable access to, and copies of, all documents, records, and other information relevant to the claim; and (iv) a statement of the Claimants right to bring a civil action under Section 502(a) of ERISA.
 
The Administrative Committee shall serve as the final review committee under the Plan and shall have sole and complete discretionary authority to administer, interpret, construe and apply the Plan provisions, and determine all questions of administration, interpretation, construction, and application of the Plan, including questions and determinations of eligibility, entitlement to benefits and the type, form and amount of any payment of benefits, all in its sole and absolute discretion. The Committee shall further have the authority to determine all relevant facts and related issues, and all documents, records and other information relevant to a claim conclusively for all parties, and in accordance with the terms of the documents or instruments governing the Plan. Decisions by the Administrative Committee shall be conclusive and bind ing on all parties and not subject to further review.
 
In any case, a Participant or Beneficiary may have further rights under ERISA. The Plan provisions require that Participants or Beneficiary pursue all claim and appeal rights described in this Section 9 before they seek any other legal recourse regarding claims for benefits.  In any case, a Participant or Beneficiary may have further rights under ERISA. The Plan provisions require that Participants or Beneficiary pursue all claim and appeal rights described in this Section 9 before they seek any other legal recourse regarding claims for benefits.
 
 
 
 
 
Attachment A
This Lump Sum Distribution Agreement is made as of the ____ day of ______________, ____ by and between AT&T Inc. (AT&T or the Company) and _______________(Participant).  Unless otherwise indicated herein, capitalized words used herein shall have the same meaning ascribed to such words in the 2005 Supplemental Employee Retirement Plan (the Plan or SERP).
WHEREAS, Participant is a Participant in the Plan, which is sponsored by the Company;
 
WHEREAS, pursuant to the Plan, Participant executed an Agreement, governing Participants benefits in the Plan;
 
WHEREAS, Participants Agreement provides for the distribution of his benefits in the form of a lump sum, payable one hundred percent (100%) upon the six (6) month anniversary of his Termination of Employment provided that Participant is age sixty (60) or older as of the date of his Termination of Employment and Participant agrees not to compete with an Employer Business;
 
NOW, THEREFORE, the parties hereto, for good and valuable consideration, the sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, hereby agree as follows:
 
 1.
   
   
If Participant is age sixty (60) or over as of the date of his Termination of Employment, Company shall pay to
Participant hisbenefits under the Plan in the form of a lump sum distribution, one hundred percent (100%) of which shall be paid upon the six (6) month anniversary of Participants Termination of Employment.
 
 
 2.
   
   
In exchange for the right to receive the payment described in Paragraph 1, above, Participant acknowledges and agrees to the terms and conditions of Section 8.2 of the Plan in the form attached hereto.
 
 3.
   
   
Participant acknowledges and agrees that he shall promptly return to the Company and forfeit all consideration previously received pursuant to this Lump Sum Distribution Agreement, specifically the payment referred to in Paragraph 1, if he violates the provisions of Paragraph 2.
 
 4.
   
   
Participant may submit a description of any proposed activity that could arguably violate Section 8.2 of the Plan in writing to AT&T and AT&T shall advise Participantin writing within fifteen (15) business days whether such proposed activity would constitute engaging in competition with an Employer business, within the meaning of this Lump Sum Distribution Agreement.
 
 
 5.
   
   
It is hereby specifically agreed that the terms of this Lump Sum Distribution Agreement shall be kept strictly confidential and that neither party shall, except as necessary for performance of the terms hereof or as specifically required by law, disclose the existence of this Lump Sum Distribution Agreement or any of its terms to third persons without the express consent of the other party.
 
 6.
   
   
Participant agrees that for any breach or threatened breach of any of the provisions of this Lump Sum Distribution Agreement by Participant, including but not limited to the provisions in Section 8.2 of the Plan, incorporated herein pursuant to Paragraph 2 of this Lump Sum Distribution Agreement, the Company shall have no adequate legal remedy, and in addition to any other remedies available, including the repayment and forfeiture remedies described in Paragraph 3, a restraining order and/or an injunction may be issued against Participantto prevent or restrain any such breach.
 
 
 7.
   
   
Any notice required hereunder to be given by either party will be in writing and will be deemed effectively given upon personal delivery to the party to be notified, or five (5) days after deposit with the United States Post Office by certified mail, postage prepaid, to the other party at the address set forth below, or to such other address as either party may from time to time designate by ten (10) days advance written notice pursuant to this Paragraph.
 
 8.
   
   
In the event any provision of this Lump Sum Distribution Agreement is held invalid, void, or unenforceable, the same shall not affect in any respect whatsoever the validity of any other provision of this Lump Sum Distribution Agreement, except that should any part of the non-compete provisions of Paragraph 2 of this Agreement be held invalid, void, or unenforceable as applicable to and as asserted by Participant, this Lump Sum Distribution Agreement, at the Company's option, may be declared by the Company null and void.  If this Lump Sum Distribution Agreement is declared null and void by Company pursuant to the provisions of this Paragraph, Participant shall return to Company all consideration pre viously received pursuant to this Lump Sum Distribution Agreement.
 
 
AT&T Inc.
 
 
   
                                                                           
   
   
   
   
   
             60;                                              
By:      Senior Executive Vice
President-Human Resources
208 S. Akard
Dallas, Texas  75202
 < font style="TEXT-DECORATION: underline">                                                          
                                                                           
   
   
   
   
   
Date                                                                           Date
   
   
   
   
   
 
 
 
Attachment B
Immediate Annuity Value of any AT&T or affiliate Qualified Pensions shall mean:
The annual amount of annuity payments that would be paid out of the qualified defined benefit pension plan sponsored by AT&T or an AT&T affiliate in which the Participant participates on a single life, level payment annuity basis assuming payment of such qualified defined benefit pension plan benefit commenced immediately upon the Participants Termination of Employment, notwithstanding the form of payment of such qualified defined benefit pension plans benefit actually made to the Participant (i.e., joint and survivor annuity, lump sum, etc.) and notwithstanding the actual commencement date of the payment of such qualified defined benefit pension plan benefit.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Attachment C
. "Immediate Annuity Value of SRIP" shall mean
Immediate Annuity Value of SRIP
 
An objectively determined amount as of December 31, 2008 equal to the annual amount of a level payment, single life with 10 year certain annuity benefit that would be paid to the Participant pursuant to the SRIP as it exists on December 31, 2008 assuming the Participant became eligible to receive a distribution of benefit payments under the SRIP on December 31, 2008, applying the Participants Final Average Earnings and Years of Service (both as defined in the SRIP) as of December 31, 2004 and the Participants age as of December 31, 2008, notwithstanding the form of payment of the SRIP benefit that would actually be made to the Participant (i.e., joint and survivor annuity, lump sum, etc.) and notwithstanding the actual commencement date of the payment of such SRIP benefit.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Attachment D
Attachment D to the AT&T 2005 Supplemental Employee Retirement Plan
 
.  "Immediate Annuity Value of any AT&T or AT&T affiliate Non-Qualified Pensions other than SERP" shall mean with respect to a Participant, any one or more of the following, as applicable:
Immediate Annuity Value of any AT&T or AT&T affiliate Non-Qualified Pensions other than SERP
 
 
 1. For a Participant who is a participant in (or otherwise has a benefit in) the AT&T Pension Benefit Make Up Plan No. 1  (PBMU No. 1), the AT&T Pension Benefit Make Up Plan No. 2 (PBMU No. 2), the AT&T Inc. Management Mid-Career Hire Plan (the Mid-Career Plan), the Cingular Wireless SBC Executive Transition Pension Make Up Plan (the Cingular Plan) and/or the Pacific Telesis Group Executive Supplemental Cash Balance Pension Plan (PTG Plan) and is a Participant in the Plan on December 31, 2008:
   
   
 
An objectively determined amount as of December 31, 2008 equal to the annual amount of a level payment, single life annuity benefit that would be paid to the Participant pursuant to the PBMU No. 1, the PBMU No. 2, the Mid-Career Plan, the Cingular Plan, and/or the PTG Plan, as applicable, as they exist on December 31, 2008 assuming the Participant became eligible to receive a distribution of benefit payments under the PBMU No. 1, the PBMU No. 2, the Mid-Career Plan, the Cingular Plan, and/or the PTG Plan, as applicable, on December 31, 2008, notwithstanding the form of payment of the benefit that would actually be made to the Participant pursuant to the PBMU No. 1, the PBMU No. 2, the Mid-Career Plan, the Cingular Plan, and/or the PTG Plan, (i.e., 10-year certain annuity, lump sum, etc.) and notwithstanding the actual commencement d ate of the payment of such PBMU No. 1, PBMU No. 2, the Mid-Career Plan, the Cingular Plan, and/or PTG Plan benefit.
 
 2. For a Participant who is a participant in (or otherwise has a benefit in) the PBMU No. 1, the PBMU No. 2, the Mid-Career Plan, the Cingular Plan, and/or the PTG Plan and has a SERP Effective Date after December 31, 2008:
   
   
 
An objectively determined amount as of the Participants SERP Effective Date equal to the annual amount of a level payment, single life annuity benefit that would be paid to the Participant pursuant to the PBMU No. 1, the PBMU No. 2, the Mid-Career Plan, the Cingular Plan, and/or the PTG Plan, as applicable, as they exist on the Participants SERP Effective Date assuming the Participant became eligible to receive a distribution of benefit payments under the PBMU No. 1, the PBMU No. 2, the Mid-Career Plan, the Cingular Plan, and/or the PTG Plan, on his or her SERP Effective Date, notwithstanding the form of payment of the benefit that would actually be made to the Participant pursuant to the PBMU No. 1, the PBMU No. 2, the Mid-Career Plan, the Cingular Plan, and/or the PTG Plan (i.e., 10-year certain annuity, lump sum, etc. ) and notwithstanding the actual commencement date of the payment of such PBMU No. 1, PBMU No. 2, the Mid-Career Plan, the Cingular Plan, and/or PTG Plan benefit.
 
 3. For a Participant who is a participant in (or otherwise has a benefit in) the BellSouth Corporation Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (the BellSouth Plan) and is a Participant in the Plan on December 31, 2008:
   
   
 
An objectively determined amount as of December 31, 2008 equal to the annual amount of a level payment, single life annuity benefit that would be paid to the Participant pursuant to the BellSouth Plan as it exists on December 31, 2008 assuming the Participant became eligible to receive a distribution of benefit payments under the BellSouth Plan on December 31, 2008, but applying the Participants age and years of service as if the Participant remained employed through the fourth anniversary of his or her SERP Effective Date and the Participants Included Earnings (as defined in the BellSouth Plan) as of December 31, 2008, notwithstanding the form of payment of the BellSouth Plans benefit that would actually be made to the Participant (i.e., joint and survivor annuity, lump sum, etc.) and notwithstanding the actual c ommencement date of the payment of such BellSouth Plan benefit.
 
 4. For a Participant who is a participant in (or otherwise has a benefit in) the BellSouth Plan and has a SERP Effective Date after December 31, 2008:
   
   
 
An objectively determined amount as of the Participants SERP Effective Date equal to the annual amount of a level payment, single life annuity benefit that would be paid to the Participant pursuant to the BellSouth Plan as it exists on the Participants SERP Effective Date assuming the Participant became eligible to receive a distribution of benefit payments under the BellSouth Plan on his or her SERP Effective Date (applying the Participants age, years of service and Included Earnings (as defined in the BellSouth Plan) as of the Participants SERP Effective Date), notwithstanding the form of payment of the BellSouth Plans benefit that would actually be made to the Participant (i.e., joint and survivor annuity, lump sum, etc.) and notwithstanding the actual commencement date of the payment of such BellSouth Plan benefit.
 
 5. For a Participant who is a participant in (or otherwise has a benefit in) the AT&T Corp. Long Term Disability and Survivor Protection Plan (LTDSPP) and is entitled to a nonqualified defined benefit from the LTDSPP, the AT&T Corp. Excess Benefit and Compensation Plan, (Excess Plan), and/or the AT&T Corp. Non-Qualified Pension Plan (NQPP) and is a Participant in the Plan on December 31, 2008 (the Participants election as to the time and form of benefits under these plans is identical to such election under this Plan):
   
   
 
The benefit payments paid pursuant to the LTDSPP (nonqualified defined benefit only), Excess Plan, and/or the NQPP, as applicable, commencing at the actual time and pursuant to the actual form such benefit payments are made from the LTDSPP, Excess Plan, and/or the NQPP, as applicable.
 
 
 6. For a Participant who is a participant in (or otherwise has a benefit in) the LTDSPP and is entitled to a nonqualified defined benefit from the LTDSPP, the Excess Plan, and/or the NQPP and has a SERP Effective Date after December 31, 2008:
   
   
 
An objectively determined amount as of the Participants SERP Effective Date equal to the annual amount of a level payment, single life annuity benefit that would be paid to the Participant pursuant to the LTDSPP (nonqualified defined benefit only), the Excess Plan, and/or the NQPP, as applicable, as they exist on the Participants SERP Effective Date assuming the Participant became eligible to receive a distribution of benefit payments under the AT&T Corp. LTDSPP (nonqualified defined benefit only), the Excess Plan, and/or the NQPP, on his or her SERP Effective Date, notwithstanding the form of payment of the benefit that would actually be made to the Participant pursuant to the LTDSPP (nonqualified defined benefit only), the Excess Plan, and/or the NQPP (i.e., 10-year certain annuity, lump sum, etc.) and notwithstanding the actual commencement date of the payment of such the AT&T Corp. LTDSPP (nonqualified defined benefit only), the Excess Plan, and/or the NQPP benefit.
 
 
 
 
Attachment E
Attachment E applies with respect to any Participant who:
Upon Termination of Employment, such Participants Plan benefit shall equal the greater of his or her benefit determined in accordance with Section 3 of the Plan or this Attachment E.
A..  Solely for purposes of this Attachment E, the following words shall have the meanings as provided in this Attachment E.  Any other capitalized word, not otherwise defined in this Attachment E, shall have the meaning as provided in Section 2 of the Plan.
   
Definitions
 
 1.
   
   
The term "" shall mean the bonus amount paid annually to an Attachment E Participant that is included in the calculation of pension benefits under the Pension Plan.
Annual Bonus Award
 
 2.
   
   
The term  shall mean any Participant to whom Attachment E applies as described in the first paragraph of this Attachment E.
Attachment E Participant
 
 3.
   
   
The terms "" and "" shall mean BellSouth Corporation, a Georgia corporation, or its successors.
BellSouth Corporation
Company
 
 4.
   
   
The term "" shall mean the 12 month average of the sum of (1) the last sixty (60) months of base pay, plus (2) the Annual Bonus Awards payable during or after that sixty (60) month period; provided, however, Included Earnings shall not include base pay or Annual Bonus Awards earned after March 1, 2011.  The amounts of base pay and other payments used to determine Included Earnings as described above include all amounts during the specified period including those amounts previously deferred pursuant to other plans.  If an Attachment E Participant terminates employment while eligible for a benefit under this Attachment E and the reafter receives Included Earnings, these additional Included Earnings shall be deemed to have been paid as of the date of the Attachment E Participants Termination of Employment, and the amount of benefit payable under this Attachment E shall be corrected accordingly.
Included Earnings
 
 5.
   
   
The term  shall mean the merger, pursuant to the Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of March 4, 2006 (the Merger Agreement), by and among BellSouth, AT&T Inc. (AT&T), and ABC Consolidation Corp., a Georgia corporation and wholly-owned subsidiary of AT&T (Merger Sub), pursuant to which, at the Effective Time (as defined in the Merger Agreement), BellSouth was merged with and into the Merger Sub.
Merger
 
 6.
   
   
The term "" shall mean the BellSouth Personal Retirement Account Pension Plan as in effect on the date of the Merger.
Pension Plan
 
 7.
   
   
The term "" shall mean the Attachment E Participants Target Award under the AT&T 2006 Incentive Plan or the AT&T Short Term Incentive Plan and for periods of time prior to the Attachment E Participants participation in the AT&T 2006 Incentive Plan or the AT&T Short Term Incentive Plan, Standard Annual Bonus shall mean an amount determined by applying a target percentage of an Attachment E Participants base pay rate as determined by the annual compensation plan and the Attachment E Participants job or pay grade.
Standard Annual Bonus
 
 8.
   
   
The term "", except as expressly limited or otherwise provided in this Attachment E or under an individual Attachment E Participants employment-related agreement with the Company, shall have the same meaning as is attributed to such term under the Pension Plan and shall be interpreted in the same manner as that term is interpreted for purposes of the Pension Plan; provided, however, Vesting Service Credit shall not include any period of time on or after March 1, 2011.
Vesting Service Credit
 
B..  An Attachment E Participants benefit under this Attachment E shall be determined as follows:
   
Benefit Amount
 
 The aggregate annualized benefit of each Attachment E Participant shall be determined by adding the sum of two percent (2%) of Included Earnings for each year of the Attachment E Participant's Vesting Service Credit for the first twenty years, plus one and one-half percent (1.5%) of Included Earnings for each year of the Attachment E Participant's Vesting Service Credit for the next ten years, plus one percent (1%) of Included Earnings for each year of the Attachment E Participant's Vesting Service Credit for each additional year up to the month in which the Attachment E Participant retires (1) 100% of the Primary Social Security benefit payable at age 65, (2) 100% of the retirement benefit (unreduced for survivor annuity) pay able from the Pension Plan (as defined below), and (3) 100% of the benefit payable from the BellSouth Corporation Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (as defined below).
   
less
 
a. The benefit reduction to be applied for the benefit payable from the Pension Plan shall be the amount of such benefit that would be payable on the date that benefits are eligible to be paid (or become payable) under the Plan, or, if earlier, March 1, 2011 (regardless of the Attachment E Participants actual pension commencement date under the Pension Plan) and determined assuming that the Attachment E Participant elected a single life annuity (regardless of the actual form of benefit elected under the Pension Plan).
   
 
The benefit reduction to be applied for the benefit payable from the BellSouth Corporation Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan shall be an objectively determined amount as of December 31, 2008 equal to the annual amount of a level payment, single life annuity benefit that would be paid to the Attachment E Participant pursuant to the BellSouth Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan as it exists on December 31, 2008 assuming the Attachment E Participant became eligible to receive a distribution of benefit payments under the BellSouth Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan on December 31, 2008, but applying the Attachment E Participants age and years of service as of March 1, 2011 and the Attachment E Participants Included Earnings as of December 31, 2008, notwithstanding the form of payment of the BellSouth Supplemental Executive Retirement Plans benefit that would actually be made to the Attachment E Participant (i.e., joint and survivor annuity, lump sum, etc.) and notwithstanding the actual commencement date of the payment of such BellSouth Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan benefit.
   
 
 
b. The benefit amount determined in accordance with this Attachment E (expressed as an annuity) at the time of the Attachment E Participants Termination of Employment shall not be less than the benefit that would have been payable to the Attachment E Participant if the Attachment E Participant had a Termination of Employment on any prior December 31 (using pay, service, offsets and all factors applicable on the previous dates and assuming an immediate benefit commencement).
   
 
c. The benefit amount determined in accordance with this Attachment E shall be reduced (before the offset for benefits under the Pension Plan) by one-quarter percent (0.25%) for each calendar month or part thereof by which the Attachment E Participants Termination of Employment precedes his or her 62nd birthday.
   
 
 
 
 
 


