FILE:T/T-8K-20101220100908.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
Item 2.03 Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant.
On December 20, 2010, AT&T Inc. ("AT&T") entered into a (i) $5 billion, four-year revolving credit agreement (the "Agreement") and a (ii) $3 billion, 364-day revolving credit agreement (364-day Agreement), with certain investment and commercial banks.  In the event advances are made under either agreement, those advances would be used for general corporate purposes, which could include repayment of maturing commercial paper.
The descriptions of the Agreement and the 364-day Agreement contained in these items 1.01 and 2.03 do not purport to be complete and are qualified in their entirety by reference to the Agreement and the 364-day Agreement, which are incorporated by reference as Exhibits 10-a and 10-b to this Current Report on Form 8-K and are incorporated herein by reference.
The Agreement
AT&T has the right to request the lenders to further increase their commitments (i.e., raise the available credit) up to an additional $2 billion provided no event of default under the Agreement has occurred.  AT&T also has the right to terminate, in whole or in part, amounts committed by the lenders under the Agreement in excess of any outstanding advances; however, any such terminated commitments may not be reinstated.
The obligations of the lenders under the Agreement to provide advances will terminate on December 20, 2014, unless prior to that date either:  (i) AT&T reduces to $0 the commitments of the lenders under the Agreement or (ii) certain events of default occur.  The Agreement also provides that AT&T and lenders representing more than fifty percent of the facility amount  may agree to extend their commitments under the Agreement for an additional one year beyond the December 20, 2014 termination date (with a potential one-year further renewal), under certain circumstances.
  Advances would bear interest, at AT&T's option, either:
AT&T will pay a facility fee (Facility Fee) equal to 0.075% of the commitment amount per annum if its unsecured long-term debt is rated at least A+ by Standard and Poors or Fitch, Inc. or A1 by Moodys Investors Service.  The Facility Fee will be 0.10% per annum if AT&T's unsecured long-term debt ratings are A or A2 and will be 0.125% per annum in the event AT&Ts unsecured long-term debt ratings are A- and A3 (or below).
In the event that AT&Ts unsecured long-term debt ratings are split by S&P, Moodys and Fitch, then the Facility Fee will be determined by the highest of the three ratings, except that in the event the lowest of such ratings is more than one level below the highest of such ratings, then the Facility Fee will be determined based on the level that is one level above the lowest of such ratings.
As of the date of this filing, AT&Ts unsecured long-term debt is rated A- by S&P, A2 by Moodys and A by Fitch.  S&P, Moodys and Fitch may change their ratings at any time and AT&T disclaims any obligation to provide notice of any changes to these ratings.
Advances under the Agreement are not conditioned on the absence of a material adverse change.  Repayment of all advances must be made no later than the date on which lenders are no longer obligated to make any advances under the Agreement.
The Agreement contains a negative pledge covenant, which requires that, if at any time AT&T or a subsidiary pledges assets or otherwise permits a lien on its properties, advances under the Agreement will be ratably secured, subject to specified exceptions.  The Agreement also contains a debt-to-EBITDA financial ratio covenant that AT&T will maintain, as of the last day of each fiscal quarter, a ratio of not more than 3.0 to 1 of:
(A) all items that would be treated under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP) as indebtedness on AT&T's consolidated balance sheet, to
 (B)  the net income of AT&T and its consolidated subsidiaries, determined on a consolidated basis for such period in accordance with GAAP, adjusted to exclude the effects of (a) gains or losses from discontinued operations, (b) any extraordinary or other non-recurring non-cash gains or losses (including non-cash restructuring charges), (c)  accounting changes including any changes to Accounting Standards Codification 715 (or any subsequently adopted standards relating to pension and postretirement benefits) adopted by the Financial Accounting Standards Board after the date hereof, (d) interest expense, (e) income tax expense or benefits, (f) depreciation, amortization and other non-cash charges (including actuarial gains or losses from pension and postretirement plans), (g) interest income, (h) equity income and losses and (i) other non-operating income or expense.   In the event the Borrower acquires or disposes of a material business (as defined in the Agreement) and pro forma financial statements are provided, then net income would be as shown on those statements, subject to the adjustments described above.
Defaults under the Agreement, which would permit the lenders to accelerate required payment and which would increase the Applicable Margin by 2% per annum, include the following:
364-day Agreement
The obligations of the lenders under the 364-day Agreement to provide advances will terminate on December 19, 2011, unless prior to that date either:  AT&T reduces to $0 the commitments of the lenders under such Agreement, or (ii) certain events of default occur.  The 364-day Agreement also provides that AT&T and lenders representing more than 50 percent of the facility amount may agree to extend their commitments under such Agreement for an additional 364-day period beyond the December 19, 2011 termination date, under certain circumstances.  AT&T also has the right to convert all or part of outstanding advances under the 364-day Agreement into term loan(s) maturing no later than the first anniversary of the termination date, under certain circumstances.  AT&T has the right to termin ate, in whole or in part, amounts committed by the lenders under the Agreement in excess of any outstanding advances; however, any such terminated commitments may not be reinstated.
Advances would bear interest, at AT&Ts option, either:
 
 
 AT&T will pay a facility fee based on the same credit-rating formula as described above for the Agreement except that the amount will be 0.04%, 0.05% or 0.06% depending on the level of AT&Ts credit rating.
Advances under the 364-day Agreement are not conditioned on the absence of a material adverse change.  Repayment of all advances must be made no later than the date on which lenders are no longer obligated to make any advances under the 364-day Agreement.
The 364-day Agreement contains a negative pledge covenant that is identical to the negative pledge described above.  In the event AT&T elects to convert any outstanding advances to term loan(s), the debt-to-EBITDA financial ratio covenant described above also would apply while such term loan(s) were outstanding.   The events of default described above also would apply to the 364-day Agreement.
Item 1.02.  Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement.
The Agreement and the 364-day Agreement collectively replace AT&Ts $9.465 billion, five-year revolving credit agreement, entered into on July 11, 2006 with certain investment and commercial banks, which was terminated on December 20, 2010.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 (d)   Exhibits
10-a Four-Year Credit Agreement dated as of December 20, 2010
10-b 364-day Credit Agreement dated as of December 20, 2010
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
 
AT&T INC., a Delaware corporation (the ), the banks, financial institutions and other institutional lenders (the ) listed on the signature pages hereof, CITIGROUP GLOBAL MARKETS INC., J.P. MORGAN SECURITIES LLC, BARCLAYS CAPITAL, the investment banking division of Barclays Bank PLC and MERRILL LYNCH, PIERCE, FENNER & SMITH INCORPORATED, as joint lead arrangers and joint bookrunners, JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, N.A., as syndication agent, BANK OF AMERICA N.A., BARCLAYS BANK PLC and DEUTSCHE BANK SECURITIES INC., as documentation agents, and CITIBANK, N.A. (), as agent (in such capacity, the ) for the Lenders (as hereinafter defined), agree as follows:
Borrower
Initial Lenders
Citibank
Agent
 
 
 
SECTION 1.01.  .  As used in this Agreement, the following terms shall have the following meanings (such meanings to be equally applicable to both the singular and plural forms of the terms defined):
Certain Defined Terms
 
 means an advance by a Lender to the Borrower as part of a Borrowing and refers to a Base Rate Advance or a Eurocurrency Rate Advance (each of which shall be a  of Advance).
Advance
Type
 
 means, as to any Person, any other Person that, directly or indirectly, controls, is controlled by or is under common control with such Person or is a director or officer of such Person.  For purposes of this definition, the term control (including the terms controlling, controlled by and under common control with) of a Person means the possession, direct or indirect, of the power to vote 5% or more of the Voting Stock of such Person or to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of such Person, whether through the ownership of Voting Stock, by contract or otherwise.
Affiliate
 
 means (a) in the case of Advances denominated in Dollars, the account of the Agent maintained by the Agent at Citibank at its office at 388 Greenwich Street, New York, New York 10013, Account No. 36852248, Attention:  Bank Loan Syndications, (b) in the case of Advances denominated in any Committed Currency, the account of the Agent designated in writing from time to time by the Agent to the Borrower and the Lenders for such purpose and (c) in any such case, such other account of the Agent as is designated in writing from time to time by the Agent to the Borrower and the Lenders for such purpose.
Agents Account
 
 means, with respect to each Lender, such Lenders Domestic Lending Office in the case of a Base Rate Advance and such Lenders Eurocurrency Lending Office in the case of a Eurocurrency Rate Advance.
Applicable Lending Office
 
 
 
 
 means (a) for Base Rate Advances, and (b) for Eurocurrency Rate Advances, as of any date, a percentage per annum equal to the Credit Default Swap Spread, but not less than the Credit Default Swap Spread Floor, nor more than the Credit Default Swap Spread Cap, determined by reference to the Public Debt Rating in effect on such date as set forth below:
Applicable Margin
at any date, a rate per annum equal to the Credit Default Swap Spread minus 1.00%, but not less than 0.00% per annum
 
 means, as of any date a percentage per annum determined by reference to the Public Debt Rating in effect on such date as set forth below:
Applicable Percentage
 means an assignment and acceptance entered into by a Lender and an Eligible Assignee, and accepted by the Agent, in substantially the form of Exhibit C hereto.
Assignment and Acceptance
 
 has the meaning specified in Section 2.17(d).
Assuming Lender
 
 has the meaning specified in Section 2.17(d)(ii).
Assumption Agreement
 
 means a fluctuating interest rate per annum in effect from time to time, which rate per annum shall at all times be equal to the highest of:
Base Rate
 
(a)           the rate of interest announced publicly by Citibank in New York, New York, from time to time, as Citibanks base rate;
 
(b)            of one percent per annum above the Federal Funds Rate; and
 
(c)           the British Bankers Association Interest Settlement Rate applicable to Dollars for a period of one month () plus 1.00% (for the avoidance of doubt, the One Month LIBOR for any day shall be based on the rate appearing on Reuters Screen LIBOR01 Page (or other commercially available source providing such quotations as designated by the Agent from time to time) at approximately 11:00 a.m. London time on such day).
One Month LIBOR
 
 means an Advance denominated in Dollars that bears interest as provided in Section 2.06(a)(i).
Base Rate Advance
 
2
 
 
 means a borrowing consisting of simultaneous Advances of the same Type made by each of the Lenders pursuant to Section 2.01.
Borrowing
 
 means, in respect of Advances denominated in Dollars, $10,000,000, in respect of Advances denominated in Sterling, 10,000,000 and, in respect of Advances denominated in Euros, 10,000,000.
Borrowing Minimum
 
 means, in respect of Advances denominated in Dollars, $1,000,000 in respect of Advances denominated in Sterling, 1,000,000 and, in respect of Advances denominated in Euros, 1,000,000.
Borrowing Multiple
 
 means a day of the year on which banks are not required or authorized by law to close in New York City and, if the applicable Business Day relates to any Eurocurrency Rate Advances, on which dealings are carried on in the London interbank market and banks are open for business in London or, in the case of an Advance denominated in Euro, on which the Trans-European Automated Real-Time Gross Settlement Express Transfer (TARGET) System is open.
Business Day
 
 means as to any Lender (a)  the Dollar amount set forth under the caption Commitments opposite such Lenders name on Schedule I hereto, (b) if such Lender has become a Lender hereunder pursuant to an Assumption Agreement, the Dollar amount set forth in such Assumption Agreement, or (c) if such Lender has entered into any Assignment and Acceptance, the Dollar amount set forth for such Lender in the Register maintained by the Agent pursuant to Section 8.06(d), as such amount may be reduced pursuant to Section 2.04 or increased pursuant to Section 2.17.
Commitment
 
 has the meaning specified in Section 2.17(b).
Commitment Date
 
 has the meaning specified in Section 2.17(a).
Commitment Increase
 
 means lawful currency of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and Euros.
Committed Currencies
 
 means information that the Borrower furnishes to the Agent or any Lender, but does not include any such information that is or becomes generally available to the public (other than as a result of a violation of this Agreement) or that is or becomes available to the Agent or such Lender from a source other than the Borrower that is not, to the best of the Agents or such Lenders knowledge, acting in violation of a contractual, legal or fiduciary obligation to the Borrower or its Affiliates.
Confidential Information
 
 has the meaning specified in Section 2.18(b).
Consenting Lender
 
 refers to the consolidation of accounts in accordance with GAAP.
Consolidated
 
 means, for any period, Consolidated Net Income for such period adjusted to exclude the effects of (a) gains or losses from discontinued operations, (b) any extraordinary or other non-recurring non-cash gains or losses (including non-cash restructuring charges), (c) accounting changes including any changes to Accounting Standards Codification 715 (or any subsequently adopted standards relating to pension and postretirement benefits) adopted by the Financial Accounting Standards Board after the date hereof (d) interest expense, (e) income tax expense or benefit, (f) depreciation, amortization and other non-cash charges (including actuarial gains or losses from pension and postretirement plans), (g) interest income, (h) equity income and l osses and (i) other non-operating income or expense.  For the purpose of calculating Consolidated EBITDA for any period, if during such period the Borrower or any Subsidiary shall have made a Material Acquisition or Material Disposition, Consolidated EBITDA for such period shall be calculated after giving pro forma effect to such Material Acquisition or Material Disposition as if such Material Acquisition or Material Disposition occurred on the first day of such period.   means any acquisition or series of related acquisitions that involves a consideration (including non-cash consideration) with a fair market value in excess of $10,000,000,000.   means any disposition of property or series of related dispositions of property that involves consideration (including non-cash consideratio n) with a fair market value in excess of $1,000,000,000.
Consolidated EBITDA
Material Acquisition
Material Disposition
 
3
 
 
 means, for any period, the net income of the Borrower and its Consolidated Subsidiaries, determined on a Consolidated basis for such period in accordance with GAAP.
Consolidated Net Income
 
,  and  each refers to a conversion of Advances of one Type into Advances of the other Type pursuant to Section 2.07 or 2.08.
Convert
Conversion
Converted
 
 means, at any time, for any Advance, the 30 day moving average credit default swap mid-rate spread of the Borrower interpolated from the applicable Reset Date (as defined below) to the latest Termination Date (or, if the period from such date of determination (as set forth in the next sentence) to the latest Termination Date is less than one year, then the one-year credit default swap mid-rate spread of the Borrower most recently set for such Advance.  The Credit Default Swap Spread will be (a) obtained by the Agent from Markit, (b) set for each Eurocurrency Rate Advance two Business Days prior to the first day of each Interest Period and (c) set for each Base Rate Advance on the last Business Day of each calendar quart er for the next succeeding calendar quarter.  If for any reason the Credit Default Swap Spread is not available from Markit or a successor thereof, the Credit Default Swap Spread shall be determined by the Agent by reference to the 30 day moving average credit default swap mid-rate spread of the Borrower most recently published by Bloomberg or another similar financial services company selected by the Agent and approved by the Borrower (which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed).  If for any reason the Credit Default Swap Spread cannot be determined pursuant to the forgoing procedures, the Borrower and the Lenders shall negotiate in good faith for a period of up to 30 days after the Credit Default Swap Spread becomes unavailable (such 30-day period, the ) to agree on an alternative method for establishing the Credit Default Swap Spread.  The Credit Default Swap Spr ead during the Negotiation Period shall be the spread most recently provided to the Agent by Markit.  If no such alternative method is agreed upon during the Negotiation Period, the Credit Default Swap Spread at any date of determination subsequent to the end of the Negotiation Period shall be the average of the Credit Default Swap Floor and the Credit Default Swap Cap as set forth in the definition of Applicable Margin.  Notwithstanding the foregoing (x) as of any date, the Credit Default Swap Spread shall in no event be less than the Credit Default Swap Floor as set forth in the definition of Applicable Margin or more than the Credit Default Swap Cap.
Credit Default Swap Spread
Negotiation Period
 
 of any Person means, without duplication, (a) all obligations of such Person for borrowed money or with respect to deposits or advances of any kind, (b) all obligations of such Person evidenced by bonds, debentures, notes or similar instruments and (c) all guarantees by such Person of Debt of others.
Debt
 
 of any Person means all items that, in accordance with GAAP, would be  classified as indebtedness on a Consolidated balance sheet of such Person.
Debt for Borrowed Money
 
 means any Event of Default or any event that would constitute an Event of Default but for the requirement that notice be given or time elapse or both.
Default
 
4
 
 
 means, subject to Section 2.19(d), at any time, any Lender that, at such time (a) has failed to perform any of its funding obligations hereunder, including in respect of its Advances, within two Business Days of the date required to be funded by it hereunder, (b) has notified the Borrower or the Agent that it does not intend to comply with its funding obligations or has made a public statement to that effect with respect to its funding obligations hereunder or generally under other agreements in which it commits to extend credit, (c) has failed, within three Business Days after written request by the Agent or the Borrower (based on its reasonable belief that such Lender may not fulfill its funding obligations hereunder), to confirm in a manner reasonably satisfactory to the Agent that it will comply with its funding obligations he reunder, provided that such Lender shall cease to be a Defaulting Lender upon receipt of such confirmation by, in form and substance reasonably acceptable to, the Agent or the Borrower, (d) has, or has a direct or indirect parent company that has, (i) become the subject of a proceeding under any debtor relief law, (ii) had a receiver, conservator, trustee, administrator, assignee for the benefit of creditors or similar Person charged with reorganization or liquidation of its business or a custodian appointed for it, or (iii) taken any action in furtherance of, or indicated its consent to, approval of or acquiescence in any such proceeding or appointment; or (e) shall generally not pay its debts as those debts come due or shall admit in writing its inability to pay its debts or shall become insolvent; provided that a Lender shall not be a Defaulting Lender solely by virtue of the control, ownership or acquisition of any equity interest in that Lender or any direct or indirect parent company thereof by a gover nmental authority, so long as such ownership interest does not result in or provide such Lender with immunity from the jurisdiction of courts within the United States or from the enforcement of judgments or writs of attachment on its assets or permit such Lender (or such governmental authority or instrumentality) to reject, repudiate, disavow or disaffirm any contracts or agreements made with such Lender.
Defaulting Lender
 
 and the  sign each means lawful currency of the United States of America.
Dollars
$
 
 means, with respect to any Lender, the office of such Lender specified as its Domestic Lending Office opposite its name on Schedule I hereto or in the Assumption Agreement or the Assignment and Acceptance pursuant to which it became a Lender, or such other office of such Lender as such Lender may from time to time specify to the Borrower and the Agent.
Domestic Lending Office
 
 has the meaning specified in Section 3.01.
Effective Date
 
 means (i) a Lender; (ii) an Affiliate of a Lender; and (iii) any other Person approved by the Agent and, unless an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing at the time any assignment is effected in accordance with Section 8.06, the Borrower, such approvals not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed; , , that neither the Borrower nor an Affiliate of the Borrower shall qualify as an Eligible Assignee.
Eligible Assignee
provided
however
 
 in Dollars of any Committed Currency on any date means the equivalent in Dollars of such Committed Currency determined by using the quoted spot rate at which the Agents principal office in London offers to exchange Dollars for such Committed Currency in London at approximately 4:00 P.M. (London time) (unless otherwise indicated by the terms of this Agreement) on such date as is required pursuant to the terms of this Agreement, and the Equivalent in any Committed Currency of Dollars means the equivalent in such Committed Currency of Dollars determined by using the quoted spot rate at which the Agents principal office in London offers to exchange such Committed Currency for Dollars in London at approximately 4:00 P.M. ( London time) (unless otherwise indicated by the terms of this Agreement) on such date as is required pursuant to the terms of this Agreement.
Equivalent
 
5
 
 
 means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended from time to time, and the regulations promulgated and rulings issued thereunder.
ERISA
 
 means any Person that for purposes of Title IV of ERISA is a member of the Borrowers controlled group, or under common control with the Borrower, within the meaning of Section 414 of the Internal Revenue Code.
ERISA Affiliate
 
 means the lawful currency of the European Union as constituted by the Treaty of Rome which established the European Community, as such treaty may be amended from time to time and as referred to in the legislative measures of the European Council for the introduction of, changeover to or operation of a single or unified European currency.
Euro
 
 means, with respect to any Lender, the office of such Lender specified as its Eurocurrency Lending Office opposite its name on Schedule I hereto or in the Assumption Agreement or the Assignment and Acceptance pursuant to which it became a Lender (or, if no such office is specified, its Domestic Lending Office), or such other office of such Lender as such Lender may from time to time specify to the Borrower and the Agent.
Eurocurrency Lending Office
 
 has the meaning assigned to that term in Regulation D of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, as in effect from time to time.
Eurocurrency Liabilities
 
 means, for any Interest Period for each Eurocurrency Rate Advance comprising part of the same Borrowing, an interest rate per annum equal to the rate per annum obtained by dividing (a) the rate per annum (rounded upward to the nearest whole multiple of 1/16 of 1% per annum) appearing on Reuters Screen LIBOR01 Page (or any successor page) as the London interbank offered rate for deposits in Dollars or the applicable Committed Currency at approximately 11:00 A.M. (London time) two Business Days prior to the first day of such Interest Period for a term comparable to such Interest Period or, if for any reason such rate is not available, the average (rounded upward to the nearest whole multiple of 1/16 of 1% per annum, if such average is not such a multiple) of the rate per annum at which deposits in Dollars or the applicable Committed Currency are offered by the principal office of each of the Reference Banks in London, England to prime banks in the London interbank market at 11:00 A.M. (London time) two Business Days before the first day of such Interest Period in an amount substantially equal to such Reference Banks Eurocurrency Rate Advance comprising part of such Borrowing to be outstanding during such Interest Period and for a period equal to such Interest Period by (b) a percentage equal to 100% minus the Eurocurrency Rate Reserve Percentage for such Interest Period.  If the Reuters Screen LIBOR01 Page (or any successor page) is unavailable, the Eurocurrency Rate for any Interest Period for each Eurocurrency Rate Advance comprising part of the same Borrowing shall be determined by the Agent on the basis of applicable rates furnished to and received by the Agent from the Reference Banks two Business Days befo re the first day of such Interest Period, , , to the provisions of Section 2.07.
Eurocurrency Rate
subject
however
 
6
 
 
 means an Advance denominated in Dollars or a Committed Currency that bears interest as provided in Section 2.06(a)(ii).
Eurocurrency Rate Advance
 
 for any Interest Period for all Eurocurrency Rate Advances comprising part of the same Borrowing means the reserve percentage applicable two Business Days before the first day of such Interest Period under regulations issued from time to time by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (or any successor) for determining the maximum reserve requirement (including, without limitation, any emergency, supplemental or other marginal reserve requirement) for a member bank of the Federal Reserve System in New York City with respect to liabilities or assets consisting of or including Eurocurrency Liabilities (or with respect to any other category of liabilities that includes deposits by reference to which the i nterest rate on Eurocurrency Rate Advances is determined) having a term equal to such Interest Period.
Eurocurrency Rate Reserve Percentage
 
 has the meaning specified in Section 6.01.
Events of Default
 
 has the meaning specified in Section 2.18(b).
Extension Date
 
 means Sections 1471 though 1474 of the Internal Revenue Code, as in effect on the date hereof.
FATCA
 
 means, for any period, a fluctuating interest rate per annum equal for each day during such period to the weighted average of the rates on overnight Federal funds transactions with members of the Federal Reserve System arranged by Federal funds brokers, as published for such day (or, if such day is not a Business Day, for the next preceding Business Day) by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, or, if such rate is not so published for any day that is a Business Day, the average of the quotations for such day on such transactions received by the Agent from three Federal funds brokers of recognized standing selected by it.
Federal Funds Rate
 
 means Fitch, Inc.
Fitch
 
 has the meaning specified in Section 1.03.
GAAP
 
 means interest rate swap, cap or collar agreements, interest rate future or option contracts, currency swap agreements, currency future or option contracts and other similar agreements.
Hedge Agreements
 
 has the meaning specified in Section 2.17(a).
Increase Date
 
 has the meaning specified in Section 2.17(b).
Increasing Lender
 
 means the information memorandum dated November 5, 2010 used by the Agent in connection with the syndication of the Commitments.
Information Memorandum
 
 means, for each Eurocurrency Rate Advance comprising part of the same Borrowing, the period commencing on the date of such Eurocurrency Rate Advance or the date of the Conversion of any Base Rate Advance into such Eurocurrency Rate Advance and ending on the last day of the period selected by the Borrower pursuant to the provisions below and, thereafter, each subsequent period commencing on the last day of the immediately preceding Interest Period and ending on the last day of the period selected by the Borrower pursuant to the provisions below.  The duration of each such Interest Period shall be one, two, three or six months as the Borrower may, upon notice received by the Agent not later than 11:00 A.M. (New York City t ime) on the third Business Day prior to the first day of such Interest Period, select; , , that:
Interest Period
provided
however
 
7
 
 
(a)           the Borrower may not select any Interest Period that ends after any Termination Date if, after giving effect thereto, the amount of such Borrowing would exceed the Commitments of Lenders for which a later Termination Date applies;
 
(b)           Interest Periods commencing on the same date for Eurocurrency Rate Advances comprising part of the same Borrowing shall be of the same duration;
 
(c)           whenever the last day of any Interest Period would otherwise occur on a day other than a Business Day, the last day of such Interest Period shall be extended to occur on the next succeeding Business Day, , , that, if such extension would cause the last day of such Interest Period to occur in the next following calendar month, the last day of such Interest Period shall occur on the next preceding Business Day; and
provided
however
 
(d)           whenever the first day of any Interest Period occurs on a day of an initial calendar month for which there is no numerically corresponding day in the calendar month that succeeds such initial calendar month by the number of months equal to the number of months in such Interest Period, such Interest Period shall end on the last Business Day of such succeeding calendar month.
 
 means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time, and the regulations promulgated and rulings issued thereunder.
Internal Revenue Code
 
 means the Initial Lenders, each Assuming Lender that shall become a party hereto pursuant to Section 2.17 or 2.18 and each Person that shall become a party hereto pursuant to Section 8.06.
Lenders
 
 means any lien, security interest or other charge or encumbrance of any kind, or any other type of preferential arrangement, including, without limitation, the lien or retained security title of a conditional vendor.
Lien
 
 means Markit Group, Ltd. or any successor thereto.
Markit
 
 means any material adverse change in the business, condition (financial or otherwise), operations, performance, properties or prospects of the Borrower or the Borrower and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole.
Material Adverse Change
 
 means a material adverse effect on (a) the business, condition (financial or otherwise), operations, performance, properties or prospects of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole, (b) the rights and remedies of the Agent or any Lender under this Agreement or any Note or (c) the ability of the Borrower to perform its obligations under this Agreement or any Note.
Material Adverse Effect
 
 means Moodys Investors Service, Inc.
Moodys
 
 means a single employer plan, as defined in Section 4001(a)(15) of ERISA, that (a) is maintained for employees of the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate and at least one Person other than the Borrower and the ERISA Affiliates or (b) was so maintained and in respect of which the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate could have liability under Section 4064 or 4069 of ERISA in the event such plan has been or were to be terminated.
Multiple Employer Plan
 
8
 
 
 means, at any date, with respect to the Borrower, the total assets appearing on the most recently prepared Consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as of the end of the most recent fiscal quarter of the Borrower for which such balance sheet is available, prepared in accordance with GAAP, less (a) all current liabilities as shown on such balance sheet and (b) the value (net of any applicable reserves), as shown on such balance sheet of (i) all trade names, trademarks, licenses, patents, copyrights and goodwill, (ii) organizational costs and (iii) deferred charges (other than prepaid items such as insurance, taxes, interest, commissions, rents and similar items and tangible assets being amortized).
Net Tangible Assets
 
 has the meaning specified in Section 2.18(b).
Non-Consenting Lender
 
 means a promissory note of the Borrower payable to the order of any Lender, delivered pursuant to a request made under Section 2.15 in substantially the form of Exhibit A hereto, evidencing the aggregate indebtedness of the Borrower to such Lender resulting from the Advances made by such Lender.
Note
 
 has the meaning specified in Section 2.02(a).
Notice of Borrowing
 
 means the Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001, Pub. L. 107-56, as it may be amended or otherwise modified from time to time.
Patriot Act
 
 means, for any Foreign Currency, such office of Citibank as shall be from time to time selected by the Agent and notified by the Agent to the Borrower and the Lenders.
Payment Office
 
 means the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (or any successor).
PBGC
 
 means such of the following as to which no enforcement, collection, execution, levy or foreclosure proceeding shall have been commenced:  (a) Liens for taxes, assessments and governmental charges or levies to the extent not required to be paid under Section 5.01(b) hereof; (b) Liens imposed by law, such as materialmens, mechanics, carriers, workmens and repairmens Liens and other similar Liens arising in the ordinary course of business securing obligations that are not overdue for a period of more than 30 days; (c) pledges or deposits to secure obligations under workers compensation laws or similar legislation or to secure public or statutory obligations; and (d) e asements, rights of way and other encumbrances on title to real property that do not render title to the property encumbered thereby unmarketable or materially adversely affect the use of such property for its present purposes.
Permitted Liens
 
 means an individual, partnership, corporation (including a business trust), joint stock company, trust, unincorporated association, joint venture, limited liability company or other entity, or a government or any political subdivision or agency thereof.
Person
 
9
 
 
 means a Single Employer Plan or a Multiple Employer Plan.
Plan
 
 means, as of any date, the rating that has been most recently announced by any of S&P, Moodys or Fitch, as the case may be, for any class of non-credit enhanced long-term senior unsecured debt issued by the Borrower or, if any such rating agency shall have issued more than one such rating, the lowest such rating issued by such rating agency.  For purposes of the foregoing, (a) if only one of S&P, Moodys and Fitch shall have in effect a Public Debt Rating, the Applicable Margin and the Applicable Percentage shall be determined by reference to the available rating; (b) if none of S&P, Moodys or Fitch shall have in effect a Public Debt Rating, the Applicable Margin and the Applicable Perc entage will be set in accordance with Level 3 under the definition of  or , as the case may be; (c) if the ratings established by S&P, Moodys and Fitch fall within different levels, the Applicable Margin and the Applicable Percentage shall be based upon the highest rating, unless the lowest of such ratings is more than one level below the highest of such ratings, in which case the Applicable Margin and the Applicable Percentage shall be based upon the rating that is one level above the lowest of such ratings; (d) if any rating established by S&P, Moodys or Fitch shall be changed, such change shall be effective as of the date on which such change is first announced publicly by the rating agency making such change; and (e) if S&P, Moodys or Fitch shall change the basis o n which ratings are established, each reference to the Public Debt Rating announced by S&P, Moodys or Fitch, as the case may be, shall refer to the then equivalent rating by S&P, Moodys or Fitch, as the case may be.
Public Debt Rating
Applicable Margin
Applicable Percentage
 means sales of accounts receivable of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries in connection with agreements for limited recourse or non-recourse sales by the Borrower or Subsidiary for cash, that (a) any such agreement is of a type and on terms customary for comparable transactions in the good faith judgment of the Board of Directors of the Borrower or Subsidiary and (b) such agreement does not create any interest in any asset other than accounts receivable (and property securing or otherwise supporting accounts receivable) and proceeds of the foregoing.
Receivables Securitization
provided
 
 means Citibank, Bank of America, N.A., Deutsche Bank AG New York Branch, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Barclays Bank PLC.
Reference Banks
 
 has the meaning specified in Section 8.06(d).
Register
 
 means, with respect to any Person, such Persons Affiliates and the partners, directors, officers, employees, agents and advisors of such Person and of such Persons Affiliates.
Related Parties
 
 means at any time Lenders owed at least a majority in interest of the then aggregate unpaid principal amount (based on the Equivalent in Dollars at such time) of the Advances owing to Lenders, or, if no such principal amount is then outstanding, Lenders having at least a majority in interest of the Commitments, that if any Lender shall be a Defaulting Lender at such time, there shall be excluded from the determination of Required Lenders at such time the Commitments of such Lender at such time.
Required Lenders
provided
 
 means Standard & Poors Financial Services LLC.
S&P
 
 means a single employer plan, as defined in Section 4001(a)(15) of ERISA, that (a) is maintained for employees of the Borrower or any  ERISA Affiliate and no Person other than the Borrower and the ERISA Affiliates or (b) was so maintained and in respect of which the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate could have liability under Section 4069 of ERISA in the event such plan has been or were to be terminated.
Single Employer Plan
 
10
 
 
 of any Person means any corporation, partnership, joint venture, limited liability company, trust or estate of which (or in which) more than 50% of (a) the issued and outstanding capital stock having ordinary voting power to elect a majority of the Board of Directors of such corporation (irrespective of whether at the time capital stock of any other class or classes of such corporation shall or might have voting power upon the occurrence of any contingency), (b) the interest in the capital or profits of such limited liability company, partnership or joint venture or (c) the beneficial interest in such trust or estate is at the time directly or indirectly owned or controlled by such Person, by such Person and one or more of its oth er Subsidiaries or by one or more of such Persons other Subsidiaries.
Subsidiary
 
 means the earlier of (a) December 20, 2014, subject to the extension thereof pursuant to Section 2.18, and (b) the date of termination in whole of the Commitments pursuant to Section 2.04 or 6.01; , , that the Termination Date of any Lender that is a Non-Consenting Lender to any requested extension pursuant to Section 2.18 shall be the Termination Date in effect immediately prior to the applicable Extension Date for all purposes of this Agreement.
Termination Date
provided
however
 
 means capital stock issued by a corporation, or equivalent interests in any other Person, the holders of which are ordinarily, in the absence of contingencies, entitled to vote for the election of directors (or persons performing similar functions) of such Person, even if the right so to vote has been suspended by the happening of such a contingency.
Voting Stock
 
SECTION 1.02.  .  In this Agreement in the computation of periods of time from a specified date to a later specified date, the word from  means from and including and the words to and until each mean to but excluding.
Computation of Time Periods
 
SECTION 1.03.  .  All accounting terms not specifically defined herein shall be construed in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles consistent with those applied in the preparation of the financial statements referred to in Section 4.01(e) ().
Accounting Terms
GAAP
 
 
 
SECTION 2.01.  .  Each Lender severally agrees, on the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth, to make Advances to the Borrower from time to time on any Business Day during the period from the Effective Date until the Termination Date applicable to such Lender in an aggregate amount (based in respect of any Advances to be denominated in a Committed Currency by reference to the Equivalent thereof in Dollars determined on the date of delivery of the applicable Notice of Borrowing) not to exceed at any time outstanding such Lenders Commitment.  Each Borrowing shall be in an amount not less than the Borrowing Minimum or the Borrowing Multiple in excess thereof and shall consist of Advances of the same Type made on the same day by the Lenders ratably according to their respective Commitments.  Within the limits of each Lenders Commitment, the Borrower may borrow under this Section 2.01, prepay pursuant to Section 2.09 and reborrow under this Section 2.01.
The Advances
 
SECTION 2.02.  .  (a)  Each Borrowing shall be made on notice, given not later than (x) 11:00 A.M. (New York City time) on the third Business Day prior to the date of the proposed Borrowing in the case of a Borrowing consisting of Eurocurrency Rate Borrowing consisting of Eurocurrency Rate Advances denominated in Dollars, (y) 4:00 P.M. (London time) on the third Business Day prior to the date of the proposed Borrowing in the case of a Borrowing consisting of Eurocurrency Rate Advances denominated in any Committed Currency, or (z) 11:00 A.M. (New York City time) on the date of the proposed Borrowing in the case of a Borrowing consisting of Base Rate Advances, by the Borrower to the Agent, which shall give to each Lender prompt notice thereof by telecopier.  Each such notice of a Borrowing (a ) shall be by telephone, confirmed immediately in writing, or telecopier in substantially the form of Exhibit B hereto, specifying therein the requested (i) date of such Borrowing, (ii) Type of Advances comprising such Borrowing, (iii) aggregate amount of such Borrowing, and (iv) in the case of a Borrowing consisting of Eurocurrency Rate Advances, initial Interest Period and currency for each such Advance.  Each Lender shall, before 1:00 P.M. (New York City time) on the date of such Borrowing, in the case of a Borrowing consisting of Advances denominated in Dollars, and before 11:00 A.M. (London time) on the date of such Borrowing, in the case of a Borrowing consisting of Eurocurrency Rate Advances denominated in any Committed Currency, make available for the account of its Applicable Lending Office to the Agent at the applicable Agents Account, in same day funds, such Lenders ratable portion of such Borrowing.  After the Agents receipt of such funds and upon fulfillment of the applicable conditions set forth in Article III, the Agent will make such funds available to the Borrower at the Agents address referred to in Section 8.02 or at the applicable Payment Office, as the case may be.
Making the Advances
Notice of Borrowing
 
11
 
 
(b)           Anything in subsection (a) above to the contrary notwithstanding, (i) the Borrower may not select Eurocurrency Rate Advances for any Borrowing if the aggregate amount of such Borrowing is less than the Borrowing Minimum or if the obligation of the Lenders to make Eurocurrency Rate Advances shall then be suspended pursuant to Section 2.07 or 2.11 and (ii) the Eurocurrency Rate Advances may not be outstanding as part of more than 12 separate Borrowings.
 
(c)           Each Notice of Borrowing shall be irrevocable and binding on the Borrower.  In the case of any Borrowing that the related Notice of Borrowing specifies is to be comprised of Eurocurrency Rate Advances, the Borrower shall indemnify each Lender against any loss, cost or expense incurred by such Lender as a result of any failure to fulfill on or before the date specified in such Notice of Borrowing for such Borrowing the applicable conditions set forth in Article III, including, without limitation, any loss (excluding loss of anticipated profits), cost or expense incurred by reason of the liquidation or reemployment of deposits or other funds acquired by such Lender to fund the Advance to be made by such Lender as part of such Borrowing when such Advance, as a result of such failure, is not made on such date.
 
(d)           Unless the Agent shall have received notice from a Lender prior to the time of any Borrowing that such Lender will not make available to the Agent such Lenders ratable portion of such Borrowing, the Agent may assume that such Lender has made such portion available to the Agent on the date of such Borrowing in accordance with subsection (a) of this Section 2.02 and the Agent may, in reliance upon such assumption, make available to the Borrower on such date a corresponding amount.  If and to the extent that such Lender shall not have so made such ratable portion available to the Agent, such Lender and the Borrower severally agree to repay to the Agent forthwith on demand such corresponding amount together with interest thereon, for each day f rom the date such amount is made available to the Borrower until the date such amount is repaid to the Agent, at (i) in the case of the Borrower, the higher of (A) the interest rate applicable at the time to Advances comprising such Borrowing and (B) the cost of funds incurred by the Agent in respect of such amount and (ii) in the case of such Lender, (A) the Federal Funds Rate in the case of Advances denominated in Dollars or (B) the cost of funds incurred by the Agent in respect of such amount in the case of Advances denominated in Committed Currencies. If such Lender shall repay to the Agent such corresponding amount, such amount so repaid shall constitute such Lenders Advance as part of such Borrowing for purposes of this Agreement.
 
(e)           The failure of any Lender to make the Advance to be made by it as part of any Borrowing shall not relieve any other Lender of its obligation, if any, hereunder to make its Advance on the date of such Borrowing, but no Lender shall be responsible for the failure of any other Lender to make the Advance to be made by such other Lender on the date of any Borrowing.
 
12
 
 
SECTION 2.03.  .  (a)  .  The Borrower agrees to pay to the Agent for the account of each Lender a commitment fee on the amount of such Lenders unused Commitment then in effect from the Effective Date in the case of each Initial Lender and from the effective date specified in the Assumption Agreement or the Assignment and Acceptance pursuant to which it became a Lender in the case of each other Lender until the Termination Date applicable to such Lender at a rate per annum equal to the Applicable Percentage in effect from time to time, payable in arrears quarterly on the last day of each March, June, September and December, commencing March 31 , 2011, and on the latest Termination Date; that no Defaulting Lender shall be entitled to receive any commitment fee in respect of its Commitment for any period during which that Lender is a Defaulting Lender (and the Borrower shall not be required to pay such fee that otherwise would have been required to have been paid to that Defaulting Lender).
Fees
Commitment Fee
provided
 
(b)           .  The Borrower shall pay to the Agent for its own account such fees as may from time to time be agreed between the Borrower and the Agent.
Agents Fees
 
SECTION 2.04.  .  The Borrower shall have the right, upon at least three Business Days notice to the Agent, to terminate in whole or permanently reduce ratably in part the unused portions of the respective Commitments of the Lenders, that each partial reduction shall be in the aggregate amount of $10,000,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof.
Optional Termination or Reduction of the Commitments
provided
 
SECTION 2.05.  .  The Borrower shall repay to the Agent for the ratable account of each Lender on the Termination Date applicable to such Lender the aggregate principal amount of the Advances made by such Lender then outstanding.
Repayment of Advances
 
SECTION 2.06.  .  (a)  .  The Borrower shall pay interest on the unpaid principal amount of each Advance owing to each Lender from the date of such Advance until such principal amount shall be paid in full, at the following rates per annum:
Interest on Advances
Scheduled Interest
 
(i)           .  During such periods as such Advance is a Base Rate Advance, a rate per annum equal at all times to the sum of (x) the Base Rate in effect from time to time (y) the Applicable Margin in effect from time to time, payable in arrears quarterly on the last day of each March, June, September and December during such periods and on the date such Base Rate Advance shall be Converted or paid in full.
Base Rate Advances
plus
 
(ii)           .  During such periods as such Advance is a Eurocurrency Rate Advance, a rate per annum equal at all times during each Interest Period for such Advance to the sum of (x) the Eurocurrency Rate for such Interest Period for such Advance (y) the Applicable Margin in effect from time to time, payable in arrears on the last day of such Interest Period and, if such Interest Period has a duration of more than three months, on each day that occurs during such Interest Period every three months from the first day of such Interest Period and on the date such Eurocurrency Rate Advance shall be Conve rted or paid in full.
Eurocurrency Rate Advances
plus
 
(b)           .  Upon the occurrence and during the continuance of an Event of Default under Section 6.01(a) the Agent shall, and upon the occurrence and during the continuance of any other Event of Default, the Agent may, and upon the request of the Required Lenders shall, require the Borrower to pay interest () on (i) the unpaid principal amount of each Advance owing to each Lender, payable in arrears on the dates referred to in clause (a)(i) or (a)(ii) above, at a rate per annum equal at all times to 2% per annum above the rate per annum required to be paid on such Advance pursuant to clause (a)(i) or (a)(ii) above and (ii) to the fullest extent permitted by law, the amount of any interest, fee or other amount payable hereunder that is not paid when due, from the date such amount shall be due until such amount shall be paid in full, payable in arrears on the date such amount shall be paid in full and on demand, at a rate per annum equal at all times to 2% per annum above the rate per annum required to be paid on Base Rate Advances pursuant to clause (a)(i) above, , , that following acceleration of the Advances pursuant to Section 6.01, Default Interest shall accrue and be payable hereunder whether or not previously required by the Agent.
Default Interest
Default Interest
provided
however
 
13
 
 
SECTION 2.07.  .  (a)  Each Reference Bank agrees to furnish to the Agent timely information for the purpose of determining each Eurocurrency Rate.  If any one or more of the Reference Banks shall not furnish such timely information to the Agent for the purpose of determining any such interest rate, the Agent shall determine such interest rate on the basis of timely information furnished by the remaining Reference Banks.  The Agent shall give prompt notice to the Borrower and the Lenders of the applicable interest rate determined by the Agent for purposes of Section 2.06(a)(i) or (ii), and the rate, if any, furnished by each Reference Bank for the purpose of determining the interest rate un der Section 2.06(a)(ii).
Interest Rate Determination
 
(b)           If, with respect to any Eurocurrency Rate Advances, the Required Lenders notify the Agent that (i) they are unable to obtain matching deposits in the London inter-bank market at or about 11:00 A.M. (London time) on the second Business Day before the making of a Borrowing in sufficient amounts to fund their respective Advances as a part of such Borrowing during its Interest Period or (ii) the Eurocurrency Rate for any Interest Period for such Advances will not adequately reflect the cost to such Required Lenders of making, funding or maintaining their respective Eurocurrency Rate Advances for such Interest Period, the Agent shall forthwith so notify the Borrower and the Lenders, whereupon (A) the Borrower will, on the last day of the then existing Inter est Period therefor, (1) if such Eurocurrency Rate Advances are denominated in Dollars, either (x) prepay such Advances or (y) Convert such Advances into Base Rate Advances and (2) if such Eurocurrency Rate Advances are denominated in any Committed Currency, either (x) prepay such Advances or (y) exchange such Advances into an Equivalent amount of Dollars and Convert such Advances into Base Rate Advances and (B) the obligation of the Lenders to make, or to Convert Advances into, Eurocurrency Rate Advances shall be suspended until the Agent shall notify the Borrower and the Lenders that the circumstances causing such suspension no longer exist; that, if the circumstances set forth in clause (ii) above are applicable, the Borrower may elect, by notice to the Agent and the Lenders, to continue such Advances in such Committed Currency for Interest Periods of not longer than one month, which Advances shall thereafte r bear interest at a rate per annum equal to the Applicable Margin plus, for each Lender, the cost to such Lender (expressed as a rate per annum) of funding its Eurocurrency Rate Advances by whatever means it reasonably determines to be appropriate.  Each Lender shall certify its cost of funds for each Interest Period to the Agent and the Borrower as soon as practicable (but in any event not later than ten Business Days after the first day of such Interest Period).
provided
 
(c)           If the Borrower shall fail to select the duration of any Interest Period for any Eurocurrency Rate Advances in accordance with the provisions contained in the definition of Interest Period in Section 1.01, the Agent will forthwith so notify the Borrower and the Lenders and such Advances will automatically, on the last day of the then existing Interest Period therefor, (i) if such Eurocurrency Rate Advances are denominated in Dollars, Convert into Base Rate Advances and (ii) if such Eurocurrency Rate Advances are denominated in a Committed Currency, be exchanged for an Equivalent amount of Dollars and Convert into Base Rate Advances.
 
(d)           On the date on which the aggregate unpaid principal amount of Eurocurrency Rate Advances comprising any Borrowing shall be reduced, by payment or prepayment or otherwise, to less than the Borrowing Minimum, such Advances shall automatically (i) if such Eurocurrency Rate Advances are denominated in Dollars, Convert into Base Rate Advances and (ii) if such Eurocurrency Rate Advances are denominated in a Committed Currency, be exchanged for an Equivalent amount of Dollars and Convert into Base Rate Advances.
 
14
 
 
(e)           Upon the occurrence and during the continuance of any Event of Default, (i) each Eurocurrency Rate Advance will automatically, on the last day of the then existing Interest Period therefor, (A) if such Eurocurrency Rate Advances are denominated in Dollars, be Converted into Base Rate Advances and (B) if such Eurocurrency Rate Advances are denominated in any Committed Currency, be exchanged for an Equivalent amount of Dollars and be Converted into Base Rate Advances and (ii) the obligation of the Lenders to make, or to Convert Advances into, Eurocurrency Rate Advances shall be suspended.
 
(f)           If Reuters Screen LIBOR01 Page is unavailable and fewer than two Reference Banks furnish timely information to the Agent for determining the Eurocurrency Rate for any Eurocurrency Rate Advances,
 
(i)           the Agent shall forthwith notify the Borrower and the Lenders that the interest rate cannot be determined for such Eurocurrency Rate Advances,
 
(ii)           with respect to Eurocurrency Rate Advances, each such Advance will automatically, on the last day of the then existing Interest Period therefor, (A) if such Eurocurrency Rate Advance is denominated in Dollars, Convert into a Base Rate Advance and (B) if such Eurocurrency Rate Advance is denominated in any Committed Currency, be prepaid by the Borrower or be automatically exchanged for an Equivalent amount of Dollars and be Converted into a Base Rate Advance (or if such Advance is then a Base Rate Advance, will continue as a Base Rate Advance), and
 
(iii)           the obligation of the Lenders to make Eurocurrency Rate Advances or to Convert Advances into Eurocurrency Rate Advances shall be suspended until the Agent shall notify the Borrower and the Lenders that the circumstances causing such suspension no longer exist.
 
SECTION 2.08.  .  The Borrower may on any Business Day, upon notice given to the Agent not later than 11:00 A.M. (New York City time) on the third Business Day prior to the date of the proposed Conversion and subject to the provisions of Sections 2.07 and 2.11, Convert all Advances denominated in Dollars of one Type comprising the same Borrowing into Advances denominated in Dollars of the other Type; , , that any Conversion of Eurocurrency Rate Advances into Base Rate Advances shall be made only on the last day of an Interest Period for such Eurocurrency Rate Adva nces, any Conversion of Base Rate Advances into Eurocurrency Rate Advances shall be in an amount not less than the minimum amount specified in Section 2.02(b) and no Conversion of any Advances shall result in more separate Borrowings than permitted under Section 2.02(b).  Each such notice of a Conversion shall, within the restrictions specified above, specify (i) the date of such Conversion, (ii) the Dollar denominated Advances to be Converted, and (iii) if such Conversion is into Eurocurrency Rate Advances, the duration of the initial Interest Period for each such Advance.  Each notice of Conversion shall be irrevocable and binding on the Borrower.
Optional Conversion of Advances
provided
however
 
, , that (x) each partial prepayment shall be in an aggregate principal amount of the Borrowing Minimum or a Borrowing Multiple in excess thereof and (y) in the event of any such prepayment of a Eurocurrency Rate Advance, the Borrower shall be obligated to reimburse the Lenders in respect thereof pursuant to Section 8.04(c).
SECTION 2.09.  .  (a)  .  The Borrower may, upon notice at least two Business Days prior to the date of such prepayment, in the case of Eurocurrency Rate Advances, and not later than 11:00 A.M. (New York City time) on the date of such prepayment, in the case of Base Rate Advances, to the Agent stating the proposed date and aggregate principal amount of the prepayment, and if such notice is given the Borrower shall, prepay the outstanding principal amount of the Advances comprising part of the same Borrowing in whole or ratably in part, together with accrued interest to the date of such prepayment on the principal amount prepaid; < font style="DISPLAY: inline; TEXT-DECORATION: underline">provided
Prepayments of Advances
Optional
however
 
15
 
 
(b)           .  (i)  If, on any date, the Agent notifies the Borrower that, on any interest payment date, the sum of (A) the aggregate principal amount of all Advances denominated in Dollars then outstanding plus (B) the Equivalent in Dollars (determined on the third Business Day prior to such interest payment date) of the aggregate principal amount of all Advances denominated in Committed Currencies then outstanding exceeds 105% of the aggregate Commitments of the Lenders on such date, the Borrower shall, as soon as practicable and in any event within two Business Days after receipt of such notice, subject to the proviso to this sentence set forth below, prepay the outstanding principal amount of any Advances owing by the Borrower in an aggregate amount sufficient to reduce such sum to an amount not to exceed 100% of the aggregate Commitments of the Lenders on such date together with any interest accrued to the date of such prepayment on the aggregate principal amount of Advances prepaid; that if the aggregate principal amount of Base Rate Advances outstanding at the time of such required prepayment is less than the amount of such required prepayment, the portion of such required prepayment in excess of the aggregate principal amount of Base Rate Advances then outstanding shall be deferred until the last day of the next maturing Interest Period of the outstanding Eurocurrency Rate Advances, in an aggregate amount equal to the excess of such required prepayment.  The Agent shall give prompt notice of any prepayment required under this Section 2.09(b) to the Borrower and the Lenders, and shall provide prompt notice to the Borrower of any such notice of required prepayment received by it from any Lender.
Mandatory
provided
 
(ii)           Each prepayment made pursuant to this Section 2.09(b) shall be made together with any interest accrued to the date of such prepayment on the principal amounts prepaid and, in the case of any prepayment of a Eurocurrency Rate Advance on a date other than the last day of an Interest Period, any additional amounts which the Borrower shall be obligated to reimburse to the Lenders in respect thereof pursuant to Section 8.04(b).
 
(iii)           The Agent shall calculate on the date of each Notice of Borrowing and on each interest payment date the sum of (A) the aggregate principal amount of all Advances denominated in Dollars plus (B) the Equivalent in Dollars (determined on the third Business Day prior to such interest payment date) of the aggregate principal amount of all Eurocurrency Rate Advances denominated in Committed Currencies and shall give prompt notice (and in any event no later than thirty days) of any prepayment required under this Section 2.10(b) to the Borrower and the Lenders.  The Agent shall give prompt notice of any prepayment required under this Section 2.09(b) to the Borrower and the Lenders.
 
SECTION 2.10.  .  (a)  If, due to either (i) the introduction of or any change in or in the interpretation of any law or regulation or (ii) the compliance with any guideline or request from any central bank or other governmental authority including, without limitation, any agency of the European Union or similar monetary or multinational authority (whether or not having the force of law), there shall be any increase in the cost to any Lender of agreeing to make or making, funding or maintaining Eurocurrency Rate Advances (excluding for purposes of this Section 2.10 any  such increased costs resulting from (i) Taxes or Other Taxes (as to which Section 2.13 shall govern) and (ii) changes in the basis of taxat ion of overall net income or overall gross income by the United States or by the foreign jurisdiction or state under the laws of which such Lender is organized or has its Applicable Lending Office or any political subdivision thereof), then the Borrower shall from time to time, upon demand by such Lender (with a copy of such demand to the Agent), pay to the Agent for the account of such Lender additional amounts sufficient to compensate such Lender for such increased cost , , that before making any such demand, each Lender agrees to use reasonable efforts (consistent with its internal policy and legal and regulatory restrictions) to designate a different Applicable Lending Office if the making of such a designation would avoid the need for, or reduce the amount of, such increased cost and would not, in the reasonable judgment of such Lender, be otherwise disadvantag eous to such Lender.  A certificate as to the amount of such increased cost, submitted to the Borrower and the Agent by such Lender, shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes, absent manifest error.
Increased Costs
provided
however
 
16
 
 
(b)           If any Lender determines that compliance with any law or regulation or any guideline or request from any central bank or other governmental authority (whether or not having the force of law) affects or would affect the amount of capital required or expected to be maintained by such Lender or any corporation or other entity controlling such Lender and that the amount of such capital is increased by or based upon the existence of such Lenders commitment to lend hereunder and other commitments of this type, then, upon demand by such Lender (with a copy of such demand to the Agent), the Borrower shall pay to the Agent for the account of such Lender, from time to time as specified by such Lender, additional amounts sufficient to compensate such Lender or such corpo ration in the light of such circumstances, to the extent that such Lender reasonably determines such increase in capital to be allocable to the existence of such Lenders commitment to lend hereunder.  A certificate as to such amounts submitted to the Borrower and the Agent by such Lender shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes, absent manifest error.  For the avoidance of doubt, this Section 2.10(b) shall apply to all requests, rules, guidelines or directives concerning capital adequacy issued in connection with the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act and all requests, rules, guidelines or directives concerning capital adequacy promulgated by the Bank for International Settlements, the Basel Committee on Banking Regulations and Supervisory Practices (or any successor or similar authority) or the United States financial regulatory authorities, regardless of the date adopted, issued, promulgated or implemented.
 
(c)           If a Lender demands payment from the Borrower at any time pursuant to Section 2.10, then the Borrower may terminate such Lenders Commitment hereunder, that (i) no Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing at the time of such Commitment termination and (ii) the Lender has been paid all amounts then due to it under this Agreement.  In no event shall the termination of a Lenders Commitment in accordance with this Section impair or otherwise affect the obligation of the borrower to make the payments demanded by such Lender pursuant to this Section 2.10.
provided
 
SECTION 2.11.  .  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, if any Lender shall notify the Agent that the introduction of or any change in or in the interpretation of any law or regulation makes it unlawful, or any central bank or other governmental authority asserts that it is unlawful, for any Lender or its Eurocurrency Lending Office to perform its obligations hereunder to make Eurocurrency Rate Advances or to fund or maintain Eurocurrency Rate Advances hereunder (a) each Eurocurrency Rate Advance will automatically, upon such demand, (i) if such Eurocurrency Rate Advance is denominated in Dollars, be Converted into a Base Rate Advance and (ii) if such Eurocurrency Rate Advance is denominated in any Committed Curren cy, be exchanged into an Equivalent amount of Dollars and be Converted into a Base Rate Advance and (b) the obligation of the Lenders to make Eurocurrency Rate Advances or to Convert Advances into Eurocurrency Rate Advances shall be suspended until the Agent shall notify the Borrower and the Lenders that the circumstances causing such suspension no longer exist; , , that before making any such demand, each Lender agrees to use reasonable efforts (consistent with its internal policy and legal and regulatory restrictions) to designate a different Eurocurrency Lending Office if the making of such a designation would allow such Lender or its Eurocurrency Lending Office to continue to perform its obligations to make Eurocurrency Rate Advances or to continue to fund or maintain Eurocurrency Rate Advances and would not, in the judgment of such Lender, be otherwise disadvan tageous to such Lender.
Illegality
provided
however
 
17
 
 
SECTION 2.12.  .  (a)  The Borrower shall make each payment hereunder, without counterclaim or set-off, except with respect to principal of, interest on, and other amounts relating to, Advances denominated in a Committed Currency, not later than 11:00 A.M. (New York City time) on the day when due in Dollars to the Agent at the applicable Agents Account in same day funds.  The Borrower shall make each payment, without counterclaim or set-off hereunder with respect to principal of, interest on, and other amounts relating to, Advances denominated in a Committed Currency, not later than 11:00 A.M. (at the Payment Office for such Committed Currency) on the day when due in such Committed Cur rency to the Agent, by deposit of such funds to the applicable Agents Account in same day funds.  The Agent will promptly thereafter cause to be distributed like funds relating to the payment of principal or interest or commitment fees ratably (other than amounts payable pursuant to Section 2.10, 2.13 or 8.04(c)) to the Lenders for the account of their respective Applicable Lending Offices, and like funds relating to the payment of any other amount payable to any Lender to such Lender for the account of its Applicable Lending Office, in each case to be applied in accordance with the terms of this Agreement.  Upon any Assuming Lender becoming a Lender hereunder as a result of a Commitment Increase pursuant to Section 2.17 or an extension of the Termination Date pursuant to Section 2.18, and upon the Agents receipt of such Lenders Assumption Agreement and recording of the information contained therein in the Register, from and after the applicable Increase Date or Extension Date, as the case may be, the Agent shall make all payments hereunder and under any Notes issued in connection therewith in respect of the interest assumed thereby to the Assuming Lender.  Upon its acceptance of an Assignment and Acceptance and recording of the information contained therein in the Register pursuant to Section 8.06(c), from and after the effective date specified in such Assignment and Acceptance, the Agent shall make all payments hereunder and under the Notes in respect of the interest assigned thereby to the Lender assignee thereunder, and the parties to such Assignment and Acceptance shall make all appropriate adjustments in such payments for periods prior to such effective date directly between themselves.
Payments and Computations
 
(b)           All computations of interest based on the Base Rate shall be made by the Agent on the basis of a year of 365 or 366 days, as the case may be, and all computations of interest based on the Eurocurrency Rate or the Federal Funds Rate and of commitment fees shall be made by the Agent on the basis of a year of 360 days (or, in each case of Advances denominated in Committed Currencies where market practice differs, in accordance with market practice), in each case for the actual number of days (including the first day but excluding the last day) occurring in the period for which such interest or commitment fees are payable.  Each determination by the Agent of an interest rate hereunder shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes, absent manifest error.
 
(c)           Whenever any payment hereunder or under the Notes shall be stated to be due on a day other than a Business Day, such payment shall be made on the next succeeding Business Day, and such extension of time shall in such case be included in the computation of payment of interest or commitment fee, as the case may be; , , that, if such extension would cause payment of interest on or principal of Eurocurrency Rate Advances to be made in the next following calendar month, such payment shall be made on the next preceding Business Day.
provided
however
 
(d)           Unless the Agent shall have received notice from the Borrower prior to the date on which any payment is due to the Lenders hereunder that the Borrower will not make such payment in full, the Agent may assume that the Borrower has made such payment in full to the Agent on such date and the Agent may, in reliance upon such assumption, cause to be distributed to each Lender on such due date an amount equal to the amount then due such Lender.  If and to the extent the Borrower shall not have so made such payment in full to the Agent, each Lender shall repay to the Agent forthwith on demand such amount distributed to such Lender together with interest thereon, for each day from the date such amount is distributed to such Lender until the date such Lender repays such amount to the Agent, at (i) the Federal Funds Rate in the case of Advances denominated in Dollars or (ii) the cost of funds incurred by the Agent in respect of such amount in the case of Advances denominated in Committed Currencies.
 
18
 
 
(f)           To the extent that the Agent receives funds for application to the amounts owing by the Borrower under or in respect of this Agreement or any Note in currencies other than the currency or currencies required to enable the Agent to distribute funds to the Lenders in accordance with the terms of this Section 2.12, the Agent shall be entitled to convert or exchange such funds into Dollars or into a Committed Currency or from Dollars to a Committed Currency or from a Committed Currency to Dollars, as the case may be, to the extent necessary to enable the Agent to distribute such funds in accordance with the terms of this Section 2.12; that the Borrower and each of the Lenders hereby agree that the Agent shall not be liable or responsible for any loss, cost or expense suffered by the Borrower or such Lender as a result of any conversion or exchange of currencies affected pursuant to this Section 2.12(f) or as a result of the failure of the Agent to effect any such conversion or exchange; and that the Borrower agrees to indemnify the Agent and each Lender, and hold the Agent and each Lender harmless, for any and all losses, costs and expenses incurred by the Agent or any Lender for any conversion or exchange of currencies (or the failure to convert or exchange any currencies) in accordance with this Section 2.12(f).
provided
provided
further
 
SECTION 2.13.  .  (a)  Any and all payments by the Borrower to or for the account of any Lender or the Agent hereunder or under the Notes or any other documents to be delivered hereunder shall be made, in accordance with Section 2.12 or the applicable provisions of such other documents, free and clear of and without deduction for any and all present or future taxes, levies, imposts, deductions, charges or withholdings, and all liabilities with respect thereto, , in the case of each Lender and the Agent, taxes imposed on its overall net income, and franchise taxes imposed on it in lieu of net income taxes, by the jurisdiction under the laws of which such Lende r or the Agent (as the case may be) is organized or any political subdivision thereof and, in the case of each Lender, taxes imposed on its overall net income, and franchise taxes imposed on it in lieu of net income taxes, by the jurisdiction of such Lenders Applicable Lending Office or any political subdivision thereof (all such non-excluded taxes, levies, imposts, deductions, charges, withholdings and liabilities in respect of payments hereunder or under the Notes being hereinafter referred to as ).  If the Borrower shall be required by law to deduct any Taxes from or in respect of any sum payable hereunder or under any Note or any other documents to be delivered hereunder to any Lender or the Agent, (i) the sum payable shall be increased as may be necessary so that after making all required deductions (including deductions applicable to additional sums payable under this Section 2.13) such Lender or the Agent (as the case may be) receives an amount equal to the sum it would have received had no such deductions been made, (ii) the Borrower shall make such deductions and (iii) the Borrower shall pay the full amount deducted to the relevant taxation authority or other authority in accordance with applicable law.
Taxes
excluding
Taxes
 
(b)           In addition, the Borrower shall pay any present or future stamp or documentary taxes or any other excise or property taxes, charges or similar levies that arise from any payment made hereunder or under the Notes or any other documents to be delivered hereunder or from the execution, delivery or registration of, performing under, or otherwise with respect to, this Agreement or the Notes or any other documents to be delivered hereunder (hereinafter referred to as ).
Other Taxes
 
(c)           The Borrower shall indemnify each Lender and the Agent for and hold it harmless against the full amount of Taxes or Other Taxes (including, without limitation, taxes of any kind imposed or asserted by any jurisdiction on amounts payable under this Section 2.13) imposed on or paid by such Lender or the Agent (as the case may be) and any liability (including penalties, interest and expenses) arising therefrom or with respect thereto.  This indemnification shall be made within 30 days from the date such Lender or the Agent (as the case may be) makes written demand therefor.
 
19
 
 
(d)           Within 30 days after the date of any payment of Taxes, the Borrower shall furnish to the Agent, at its address referred to in Section 8.02, the original or a certified copy of a receipt evidencing such payment to the extent such a receipt is issued therefor, or other written proof of payment thereof that is reasonably satisfactory to the Agent.
 
(e)           (i) Each Lender organized under the laws of a jurisdiction outside the United States, on or prior to the date of its execution and delivery of this Agreement in the case of each Initial Lender and on the date of the Assumption Agreement or the Assignment and Acceptance pursuant to which it becomes a Lender in the case of each other Lender, and from time to time thereafter as reasonably requested in writing by the Borrower (but only so long as such Lender remains lawfully able to do so), shall provide each of the Agent and the Borrower with two original Internal Revenue Service forms W-8BEN or W-8ECI, as appropriate, or any successor or other form prescribed by the Internal Revenue Service, certifying that such Lender is exempt from or entitled to a reduced rate of United States withholding tax on payments pursuant to this Agreement or the Notes.  If the form provided by a Lender at the time such Lender first becomes a party to this Agreement indicates a United States interest withholding tax rate in excess of zero, withholding tax at such rate shall be considered excluded from Taxes unless and until such Lender provides the appropriate forms certifying that a lesser rate applies, whereupon withholding tax at such lesser rate only shall be considered excluded from Taxes for periods governed by such form; , , that, if at the date of the Assignment and Acceptance pursuant to which a Lender assignee becomes a party to this Agreement, the Lender assignor was entitled to payments under subsection (a) in respect of United States withholding tax with respect to interest paid at such date, then, to such extent, the t erm Taxes shall include (in addition to withholding taxes that may be imposed in the future or other amounts otherwise includable in Taxes) United States withholding tax, if any, applicable with respect to the Lender assignee on such date.  If any form or document referred to in this subsection (e) requires the disclosure of information, other than information necessary to compute the tax payable and information required on the date hereof by Internal Revenue Service form W-8BEN or W-8ECI, that the Lender reasonably considers to be confidential, the Lender shall give notice thereof to the Borrower and shall not be obligated to include in such form or document such confidential information.  For purposes of this subsection (e), the terms  and  shall have the meanings specified in Section  ;7701 of the Internal Revenue Code.
provided
however
United States
United States person
 
(ii)           If a payment made to a Lender hereunder would be subject to United States federal withholding tax imposed by FATCA if such Lender were to fail to comply with the applicable reporting requirements of FATCA (including those contained in Section 1471(b) or 1472(b) of the Internal Revenue Code, as applicable), such Lender shall deliver to the Borrower and the Agent, at the time or times prescribed by law and at such time or times reasonably requested by the Borrower or the Agent, such documentation prescribed by applicable law (including as prescribed by Section 1471(b)(3)(C)(i) of the Internal Revenue Code) and such additional documentation reasonably requested by the Borrower or the Agent as may be necessary for the Borrower or the Agent to comply with its obligations under FATCA, to determine that such Lender has complied with such Lenders obligati ons under FATCA or to determine the amount to deduct and withhold from such payment.
 
(f)           For any period with respect to which a Lender has failed to provide the Borrower with the appropriate form, certificate or other document described in Section 2.13(e) ( if such failure is due to a change in law, or in the interpretation or application thereof, occurring subsequent to the date on which a form, certificate or other document originally was required to be provided, or if such form, certificate or other document otherwise is not required under subsection (e) above), such Lender shall not be entitled to indemnification under Section 2.13(a) or (c) with respect to Taxes imposed by the United States by rea son of such failure; , , that should a Lender become subject to Taxes because of its failure to deliver a form, certificate or other document required hereunder, the Borrower shall take such steps as the Lender shall reasonably request, and at such Lenders expense, to assist the Lender to recover such Taxes.
other
than
provided
however
 
20
 
 
(g)           Any Lender claiming any additional amounts payable pursuant to this Section 2.13 agrees to use reasonable efforts (consistent with its internal policy and legal and regulatory restrictions) to change the jurisdiction of its Eurocurrency Lending Office if the making of such a change would avoid the need for, or reduce the amount of, any such additional amounts that may thereafter accrue and would not, in the reasonable judgment of such Lender, be otherwise disadvantageous to such Lender.
 
SECTION 2.14.  .  If any Lender shall obtain any payment (whether voluntary, involuntary, through the exercise of any right of set-off, or otherwise) on account of the Advances owing to it (other than pursuant to Section 2.10, 2.13 or 8.04(c)) in excess of its ratable share of payments on account of the Advances obtained by all the Lenders, such Lender shall forthwith purchase from the other Lenders such participations in the Advances owing to them as shall be necessary to cause such purchasing Lender to share the excess payment ratably with each of them; , , that if all or any po rtion of such excess payment is thereafter recovered from such purchasing Lender, such purchase from each Lender shall be rescinded and such Lender shall repay to the purchasing Lender the purchase price to the extent of such recovery together with an amount equal to such Lenders ratable share (according to the proportion of (i) the amount of such Lenders required repayment to (ii) the total amount so recovered from the purchasing Lender) of any interest or other amount paid or payable by the purchasing Lender in respect of the total amount so recovered.  The Borrower agrees that any Lender so purchasing a participation from another Lender pursuant to this Section 2.14 may, to the fullest extent permitted by law, exercise all its rights of payment with respect to such participation as fully as if such Lender were the direct creditor of the Borrower in the amount of such participation.
Sharing of Payments, Etc
provided
however
 
SECTION 2.15.  .  (a)  Each Lender shall maintain in accordance with its usual practice an account or accounts evidencing the indebtedness of the Borrower to such Lender resulting from each Advance owing to such Lender from time to time, including the amounts of principal and interest payable and paid to such Lender from time to time hereunder in respect of Advances.  The Borrower agrees that upon notice by any Lender to the Borrower (with a copy of such notice to the Agent) to the effect that a Note is required or appropriate in order for such Lender to evidence (whether for purposes of pledge, enforcement or otherwise) the Advances owing to, or to be made by, such Lender, the Borrower shall promptly execute and de liver to such Lender a Note payable to the order of such Lender in a principal amount up to the Commitment of such Lender.  Each Lender that receives a Note pursuant to this Section 2.15 agrees that, upon the earlier of the termination or expiration of this Agreement, such Lender will return such Note to the Borrower.
Evidence of Debt
 
(b)           The Register maintained by the Agent pursuant to Section 8.06(d) shall include a control account, and a subsidiary account for each Lender, in which accounts (taken together) shall be recorded (i) the date and amount of each Borrowing made hereunder, the Type of Advances comprising such Borrowing and, if appropriate, the Interest Period applicable thereto, (ii) the terms of each Assumption Agreement and each Assignment and Acceptance delivered to and accepted by it, (iii) the amount of any principal or interest due and payable or to become due and payable from the Borrower to each Lender hereunder and (iv) the amount of any sum received by the Agent from the Borrower hereunder and each Lenders share thereof.
 
(c)           Entries made in good faith by the Agent in the Register pursuant to subsection (b) above, and by each Lender in its account or accounts pursuant to subsection (a) above, shall be evidence of the amount of principal and interest due and payable or to become due and payable from the Borrower to, in the case of the Register, each Lender and, in the case of such account or accounts, such Lender, under this Agreement, absent manifest error; , , that the failure of the Agent or such Lender t o make an entry, or any finding that an entry is incorrect, in the Register or such account or accounts shall not limit or otherwise affect the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
prima
facie
provided
however
 
21
 
 
SECTION 2.16.  .  The proceeds of the Advances shall be available (and the Borrower agrees that it shall use such proceeds) solely for general corporate purposes of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries.
Use of Proceeds
 
SECTION 2.17.  .  (a) The Borrower may, not more than once in any calendar year prior to the Termination Date, by notice to the Agent, request that the aggregate amount of the Commitment be increased by an integral multiple of $25,000,000 (each a ) to be effective as of a date that is at least 90 days prior to the scheduled Termination Date then in effect (the ), as specified in the related notice to the Agent; , that (i) in no event shall the aggregate amount of the Commitments at any time exceed $7,000,000,000 and (ii) on the date of any request by the Borrower for a Commitment Increase and on the related Increase Date, the conditions set forth in Section 3.02 shall be satisfied.
Increase in the Aggregate Commitments
Commitment Increase
Increase Date
provided
however
 
(b)           The Agent shall promptly notify the Lenders of a request by the Borrower for a Commitment Increase, which notice shall include (i) the proposed amount of such requested Commitment Increase, (ii) the proposed Increase Date and (iii) the date by which Lenders wishing to participate in the Commitment Increase must commit to an increase in the amount of their respective Commitments (the ).  Each Lender that is willing to participate in such requested Commitment Increase (each an ) shall, in its sole discretion, give written notice to the Agent on or prior to the Commitment D ate of the amount by which it is willing to increase its Commitment.  If the Lenders notify the Agent that they are willing to increase the amount of their respective Commitments by an aggregate amount that exceeds the amount of the requested Commitment Increase, the requested Commitment Increase shall be allocated among the Lenders willing to participate therein based on the ratio of the amount by which each lender is willing to participate in the requested Commitment Increase on the Commitment Date to the aggregate amount by which the Lenders are willing to participate in any requested Commitment Increase on the Commitment Date.
Commitment Date
Increasing Lender
 
(c)           Promptly following each Commitment Date, the Agent shall notify the Borrower as to the amount, if any, by which the Lenders are willing to participate in the requested Commitment Increase.  If the aggregate amount by which the Lenders are willing to participate in any requested Commitment Increase on any such Commitment Date is less than the requested Commitment Increase, then the Borrower may extend offers to one or more Eligible Assignees to participate in any portion of the requested Commitment Increase that has not been committed to by the Lenders as of the applicable Commitment Date; , , that the Commitment of each such Eligible Assignee shall be in an amount of $10,000,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof.
provided
however
 
(d)           On each Increase Date, each Eligible Assignee that accepts an offer to participate in a requested Commitment Increase in accordance with Section 2.17(c) (each such Eligible Assignee and each Eligible Assignee that agrees to an extension of the Termination Date in accordance with Section 2.18(c), an ) shall become a Lender party to this Agreement as of such Increase Date and the Commitment of each Increasing Lender for such requested Commitment Increase shall be so increased by such amount (or by the amount allocated to such Lender pursuant to the last sentence of Section 2.17(b)) as of such Increase Date;
Assuming Lender
provided, , that the Agent shall have received on or before such Increase Date the following, each dated such date:
however
 
22
 
 
(i)           (A) certified copies of resolutions of the Board of Directors of the Borrower or the Executive Committee of such Board authorizing the Commitment Increase and the corresponding modifications to this Agreement and (B) an opinion of counsel for the Borrower (which may be in-house counsel), in substantially the form of Exhibit D hereto;
 
(ii)           an assumption agreement from each Assuming Lender, if any, in form and substance satisfactory to the Borrower and the Agent (each an ), duly executed by such Eligible Assignee, the Agent and the Borrower; and
Assumption Agreement
 
(iii)           confirmation from each Increasing Lender of the increase in the amount of its Commitment in a writing satisfactory to the Borrower and the Agent.
 
On each Increase Date, upon fulfillment of the conditions set forth in the immediately preceding sentence of this Section 2.17(d), the Agent shall notify the Lenders (including, without limitation, each Assuming Lender) and the Borrower, on or before 1:00 P.M. (New York City time), by telecopier, of the occurrence of the Commitment Increase to be effected on such Increase Date and shall record in the Register the relevant information with respect to each Increasing Lender and each Assuming Lender on such date.  Each Increasing Lender and each Assuming Lender shall, before 2:00 P.M. (New York City time) on the Increase Date, make available for the account of its Applicable Lending Office to the Agent at the Agents Account, in same day funds, in the case of such Assuming Lender, an amount equal to such Assuming Lender 7;s ratable portion of the Borrowings then outstanding (calculated based on its Commitment as a percentage of the aggregate Commitments outstanding after giving effect to the relevant Commitment Increase) and, in the case of such Increasing Lender, an amount equal to the excess of (i) such Increasing Lenders ratable portion of the Borrowings then outstanding (calculated based on its Commitment as a percentage of the aggregate Commitments outstanding after giving effect to the relevant Commitment Increase) over (ii) such Increasing Lenders ratable portion of the Borrowings then outstanding (calculated based on its Commitment (without giving effect to the relevant Commitment Increase) as a percentage of the aggregate Commitments (without giving effect to the relevant Commitment Increase).  After the Agents receipt of such funds from each such Increasing Lender and each such Assuming Lender, the Agent will promptly thereafter cause to be distributed like funds to the other Lenders for the account of their respective Applicable Lending Offices in an amount to each other Lender such that the aggregate amount of the outstanding Advances owing to each Lender after giving effect to such distribution equals such Lenders ratable portion of the Borrowings then outstanding (calculated based on its Commitment as a percentage of the aggregate Commitments outstanding after giving effect to the relevant Commitment Increase).
 
SECTION 2.18.  .  (a) At least 45 days but not more than 60 days prior to each of the first or second anniversary of the Effective Date, the Borrower, by written notice to the Agent, may request an extension of the Termination Date in effect at such time by one year from its then scheduled expiration.  The Agent shall promptly notify each Lender of such request, and each Lender shall in turn, in its sole discretion, no later than 35 days prior to such anniversary date, notify the Borrower and the Agent in writing as to whether such Lender will consent to such extension.  If any Lender shall fail to notify the Agent and the Borrower in writing of its consent to any such request for extension of the Termi nation Date at least 35 days prior to the applicable anniversary date, such Lender shall be deemed to be a Non-Consenting Lender with respect to such request.  The Agent shall notify the Borrower not later than 30 days prior to the applicable anniversary date of the decision of the Lenders regarding the Borrowers request for an extension of the Termination Date.
Extension of Termination Date
 
(b)           If all the Lenders consent in writing to any such request in accordance with subsection (a) of this Section 2.18, the Termination Date in effect at such time shall, effective as at the applicable anniversary of the Effective Date (the ), be extended for one year; that on each Extension Date the applicable conditions set forth in Section 3.02 shall be satisfied.  If less than all of the Lenders consent in writing to any such request in accordance with subsection (a) of this Section 2.18, the Termination Date in effect at such time shall, effective as at the applicable Extension Date and subject to subsection (d) of this Section 2.18, be extended as to those Lenders that so consented (each a ) but shall not be extended as to any other Lender (each a ).  To the extent that the Termination Date is not extended as to any Lender pursuant to this Section 2.18 and the Commitment of such Lender is not assumed in accordance with subsection (c) of this Section 2.18 on or prior to the applicable Extension Date, the Commitment of such Non-Consenting Lender shall automatically terminate in whole on such unextended Termination Date without any further notice or other action by the Borrower, such Lender or any other Person; that such Non-Consenting Lenders rights under Sections 2.10, 2.13 and 8.04, and its obligations under Sectio n 7.08, shall survive the Termination Date for such Lender as to matters occurring prior to such date.  It is understood and agreed that no Lender shall have any obligation whatsoever to agree to any request made by the Borrower for any requested extension of the Termination Date.
Extension Date
provided
Consenting Lender
Non-Consenting Lender
provided
 
23
 
 
(c)           If less than all of the Lenders consent to any such request pursuant to subsection (a) of this Section 2.18, the Agent shall promptly so notify the Consenting Lenders, and each Consenting Lender may, in its sole discretion, give written notice to the Agent not later than 25 days prior to the applicable anniversary of the Effective Date of the amount of the Non-Consenting Lenders Commitments for which it is willing to accept an assignment.  If the Consenting Lenders notify the Agent that they are willing to accept assignments of Commitments in an aggregate amount that exceeds the amount of the Commitments of the Non-Consenting Lenders, such Commitments shall be allocated among the Consenting Lenders willing to accept such assignments in such amounts a s are agreed between the Borrower and the Agent.  If after giving effect to the assignments of Commitments described above there remains any Commitments of Non-Consenting Lenders, the Borrower may arrange for one or more Consenting Lenders or other Eligible Assignees as Assuming Lenders to assume, effective as of the Extension Date, any Non-Consenting Lenders Commitment and all of the obligations of such Non-Consenting Lender under this Agreement thereafter arising, without recourse to or warranty by, or expense to, such Non-Consenting Lender; , , that the amount of the Commitment of any such Assuming Lender as a result of such substitution shall in no event be less than $10,000,000 unless the amount of the Commitment of such Non-Consenting Lender is less than $10,000,000, in which case such Assuming Lender shall assume all of such lesser amount; an d that:
provided
however
provided
further
 
(i)           any such Consenting Lender or Assuming Lender shall have paid to such Non-Consenting Lender (A) the aggregate principal amount of, and any interest accrued and unpaid to the effective date of the assignment on, the outstanding Advances, if any, of such Non-Consenting Lender (B) any accrued but unpaid commitment fees owing to such Non-Consenting Lender as of the effective date of such assignment;
plus
 
(ii)           all additional costs reimbursements, expense reimbursements and indemnities payable to such Non-Consenting Lender, and all other accrued and unpaid amounts owing to such Non-Consenting Lender hereunder, as of the effective date of such assignment shall have been paid to such Non-Consenting Lender; and
 
(iii)           with respect to any such Assuming Lender, the applicable processing and recordation fee required under Section 8.6(a) for such assignment shall have been paid;
 
that such Non-Consenting Lenders rights under Sections 2.10, 2.13 and 8.04, and its obligations under Section 7.08, shall survive such substitution as to matters occurring prior to the date of substitution.  At least three Business Days prior to any Extension Date, (A) each such Assuming Lender, if any, shall have delivered to the Borrower and the Agent an Assumption Agreement, duly executed by such Assuming Lender, such Non-Consenting Lender, the Borrower and the Agent, (B) any such Consenting Lender shall have delivered confirmation in writing satisfactory to the Borrower and the Agent as to the increase in the amount of its Commitment and (C) each Non-Consenting Lender be ing replaced pursuant to this Section 2.18 shall have delivered to the Agent any Note or Notes held by such Non-Consenting Lender.  Upon the payment or prepayment of all amounts referred to in clauses (i), (ii) and (iii) of the immediately preceding sentence, each such Consenting Lender or Assuming Lender, as of the Extension Date, will be substituted for such Non-Consenting Lender under this Agreement and shall be a Lender for all purposes of this Agreement, without any further acknowledgment by or the consent of the other Lenders, and the obligations of each such Non-Consenting Lender hereunder shall, by the provisions hereof, be released and discharged.
provided
further
 
24
 
 
(d)           If (after giving effect to any assignments or assumptions pursuant to subsection (c) of this Section 2.18) Lenders having Commitments equal to more than 50% of the Commitments in effect immediately prior to the Extension Date consent in writing to a requested extension (whether by execution or delivery of an Assumption Agreement or otherwise) not later than one Business Day prior to such Extension Date, the Agent shall so notify the Borrower, and, subject to the satisfaction of the conditions in Section 3.02, the Termination Date then in effect shall be extended for the additional one year period as described in subsection (a) of this Section 2.18, and all references in this Agreement, and in the Notes, if any, to the  shall, with respect to each Consenting Lender and each Assuming Lender for such Extension Date, refer to the Termination Date as so extended.  Promptly following each Extension Date, the Agent shall notify the Lenders (including, without limitation, each Assuming Lender) of the extension of the scheduled Termination Date in effect immediately prior thereto and shall thereupon record in the Register the relevant information with respect to each such Consenting Lender and each such Assuming Lender.
Termination Date
 
.  (a)   (i)  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement, any payment by the Borrower for the account of a Defaulting Lender under this Agreement other than any amounts representing principal or interest payable to such Defaulting Lender  (whether voluntary or mandatory, at maturity, pursuant to Article VI or otherwise) shall not be paid or distributed to such Defaulting Lender, but shall instead be retained by the Agent in a segregated non-interest bearing account until the earlier of the date the Defaulting Lender is no longer a Defaulting Lender or the termination of the Commitments and payment in full of all obligations of the Borrower hereunder and shall be a pplied at such time or times as may be determined by the Agent as follows:  , to the payment of any amounts owing by such Defaulting Lender to the Agent hereunder; as the Borrower may request (so long as no Default exists), to the funding of any Advance in respect of which that Defaulting Lender has failed to fund its portion thereof as required by this Agreement, as determined by the Agent or if no such funding has been requested, to be held by the Agent as cash collateral to fund future Advances by such Defaulting Lender; , to the payment of any amounts owing to the Lenders as a result of any judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction obtained by any Lender against such Defaulting Lender as a result of such Defaulting Lenders breach of its obligations under this Agreement; , so long as no Default exists, to the payment of any amounts owing to the Borrower as a result of any judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction obtained by such Borrower against such Defaulting Lender as a result of such Defaulting Lenders breach of its obligations under this Agreement; and , to such Defaulting Lender or as otherwise directed by a court of competent jurisdiction; that any amounts held as cash collateral for funding obligations of a Defaulting Lender shall be returned to such Defaulting Lender upon the termination of this Agreement and the satisfaction of such Defaulting Lenders obligations hereunder.  Any payments, prepayments or other amounts paid or payable to a Defaulting Lender that are applied (or held) to pay amounts owed by a Defaulting Lender or to post cash collateral pursuant to this S ection 2.19 shall be deemed paid to and redirected by such Defaulting Lender, and each Lender irrevocably consents hereto.  (ii)  Any amount paid by the Borrower for the account of a Defaulting Lender representing principal or interest payable to such Defaulting Lender shall be paid to such Defaulting Lender in the same amounts and in the same manner as if such Defaulting Lender were a not a Defaulting Lender.
Section 2.19.  Defaulting Lenders
first
second,
third
fourth
fifth
provided
 
25
 
 
(b)           No Commitment of any Lender shall be increased or otherwise affected, and, except as otherwise expressly provided in this Section 2.19, performance by the Borrower of its obligations shall not be excused or otherwise modified as a result of the operation of this Section 2.19.  The rights and remedies against a Defaulting Lender under this Section 2.19 are in addition to any other rights and remedies which the Borrower, the Agent or any Lender may have against such Defaulting Lender.
 
(c)           If the Borrower and the Agent agree in writing in their reasonable determination that a Defaulting Lender should no longer be deemed to be a Defaulting Lender, the Agent will so notify the parties hereto, whereupon as of the effective date specified in such notice and subject to any conditions set forth therein (which may include arrangements with respect to any cash collateral), that Lender will, to the extent applicable, purchase that portion of outstanding Advances of the other Lenders or take such other actions as the Agent may determine to be necessary to cause the Advances to be funded and held on a pro rata basis by the Lenders in accordance with their pro rata share, whereupon such Lender will cease to be a Defaulting Lender; that no adjustments will be made retroactively with respect to fees accrued or payments made by or on behalf of the Borrower while that Lender was a Defaulting Lender; and , , that except to the extent otherwise expressly agreed by the affected parties, no change hereunder from Defaulting Lender to Lender will constitute a waiver or release of any claim of any party hereunder arising from such Lenders having been a Defaulting Lender.
provided
provided
further
 
 
 
SECTION 3.01.  .  Section 2.01 of this Agreement shall become effective on and as of the first date on or before January 21, 2011 (the ) on which the following conditions precedent have been satisfied:
Conditions Precedent to Effectiveness of Section 2.01
Effective Date
 
(a)           Except as disclosed in filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission prior to the date hereof, there shall have occurred no Material Adverse Change since December 31, 2009.
 
(b)           There shall exist no action, suit, investigation, litigation or proceeding affecting the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries pending or overtly threatened before any court, governmental agency or arbitrator that (i) could be reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect or (ii) purports to affect the legality, validity or enforceability of this Agreement or any Note or the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby.
 
(c)           Nothing shall have come to the attention of the Lenders during the course of their due diligence investigation to lead them to believe that the Information Memorandum was or has become misleading, incorrect or incomplete in any material respect; without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Lenders shall have been given such access to the management of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as they shall have requested.
 
(d)           All governmental and third party consents and approvals necessary in connection with the transactions contemplated hereby shall have been obtained (without the imposition of any conditions that are not acceptable to the Lenders) and shall remain in effect, and no law or regulation shall be applicable in the reasonable judgment of the Lenders that restrains, prevents or imposes materially adverse conditions upon the transactions contemplated hereby.
 
26
 
 
(e)           The Borrower shall have notified the Agent in writing as to the proposed Effective Date.
 
(f)           The Borrower shall have paid all accrued fees and expenses of the Agent and the Lenders (including the accrued fees and expenses of counsel to the Agent).
 
(g)           On the Effective Date, the following statements shall be true and the Agent shall have received for the account of each Lender a certificate signed by a duly authorized officer of the Borrower, dated the Effective Date, stating that:
 
(i)           The representations and warranties contained in Section 4.01 are correct on and as of the Effective Date, and
 
(ii)           No event has occurred and is continuing that constitutes a Default.
 
(h)           The Agent shall have received on or before the Effective Date the following, each dated the Effective Date, in form and substance satisfactory to the Agent and (except for the Notes) in sufficient copies for each Lender:
 
(i)           The Notes to the order of the Lenders to the extent requested by any Lender pursuant to Section 2.15.
 
(ii)           Certified copies of the resolutions of the Board of Directors of the Borrower approving this Agreement and the Notes, and of all documents evidencing other necessary corporate action and governmental approvals, if any, with respect to this Agreement and the Notes.
 
(iii)           A certificate of the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Borrower certifying the names and true signatures of the officers of the Borrower authorized to sign this Agreement and the Notes and the other documents to be delivered hereunder.
 
(iv)           A favorable opinion of the general counsel of the Borrower, substantially in the form of Exhibit D hereto and as to such other matters as any Lender through the Agent may reasonably request.
 
(v)           A favorable opinion of Shearman & Sterling LLP, counsel for the Agent, in form and substance satisfactory to the Agent.
 
(i)           The commitments under the Five Year Credit Agreement (the ) dated as of July 12, 2006 among the Borrower, the lenders party thereto and Citibank, N.A., as administrative agent, shall have been or shall simultaneously be terminated and all Debt, interest, fees and other amounts outstanding under the Existing Credit Agreement shall have been or shall simultaneously be prepaid in full, and each of the Lenders that is a party to the Existing Credit Agreement hereby waives, upon the execution of this Agreement, any requirement of prior notice relating to the termination of the commitments thereunder.
Existing Credit Agreement
 
SECTION 3.02.  .  The obligation of each Lender to make an Advance on the occasion of each Borrowing, each Commitment Increase and each extension of Commitments pursuant to Section 2.18 shall be subject to the conditions precedent that the Effective Date shall have occurred and on the date of such Borrowing, the applicable Increase Date or the applicable Extension Date (a) the following statements shall be true (and each of the giving of the applicable Notice of Borrowing, the request for Commitment Increase or the request for Commitment Extension and the acceptance by the Borrower of t he proceeds of such Borrowing shall constitute a representation and warranty by the Borrower that on the date of such Borrowing, such Increase Date or such Extension Date such statements are true):
Conditions Precedent to Each Borrowing, Commitment Increase and Extension Date
 
 
27
 
 
(i)           the representations and warranties contained in Section 4.01 (except, in the case of each Borrowing, the representations set forth in the last sentence of subsection (e) thereof and in subsection (f)(i) thereof) are correct on and as of such date, before and after giving effect to such Borrowing and to the application of the proceeds therefrom or from such Commitment Increase or such Extension Date, as though made on and as of such date,
 
(ii)           no event has occurred and is continuing, or would result from such Borrowing from such Commitment Increase or such Extension Date or from the application of the proceeds therefrom, that constitutes a Default, and
or
 
(iii)           the Borrowing is within any applicable debt limitations by the Board of Directors of the Borrower;
established
 
and (b) the Agent shall have received such other approvals, opinions or documents as any Lender through the Agent may reasonably request related to clauses (a)(i) or (ii) of this Section.
 
SECTION 3.03.  .  For purposes of determining compliance with the conditions specified in Section 3.01, each Lender shall be deemed to have consented to, approved or accepted or to be satisfied with each document or other matter required thereunder to be consented to or approved by or acceptable or satisfactory to the Lenders unless an officer of the Agent responsible for the transactions contemplated by this Agreement shall have received notice from such Lender prior to the date that the Borrower, by notice to the Lenders, designates as the proposed Effective Date, specifying its objection thereto.  The Agent shall promptly notify the Lenders of the occurrence of the Effective Date.
Determinations Under Section 3.01
 
 
 
SECTION 4.01.  .  The Borrower represents and warrants as follows:
Representations and Warranties of the Borrower
 
(a)           The Borrower is a corporation duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the State of Delaware.
 
(b)           The execution, delivery and performance by the Borrower of this Agreement and the Notes to be delivered by it, and the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby, are within the Borrowers corporate powers, have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action, subject to any applicable debt limitations established by the Board of Directors of the Borrower, and do not contravene (i) the Borrowers charter or by-laws or (ii) law or any contractual restriction binding on or affecting the Borrower.
 
28
 
 
(c)           No authorization or approval or other action by, and no notice to or filing with, any governmental authority or regulatory body or any other third party is required for the due execution, delivery and performance by the Borrower of this Agreement or the Notes to be delivered by it.
 
(d)           This Agreement has been, and each of the Notes to be delivered by it when delivered hereunder will have been, duly executed and delivered by the Borrower.  This Agreement is, and each of the Notes when delivered hereunder will be, the legal, valid and binding obligation of the Borrower enforceable against the Borrower in accordance with their respective terms.
 
(e)           The Consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as at December 31, 2009, and the related Consolidated statements of income and cash flows of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries for the fiscal year then ended, accompanied by an opinion of Ernst & Young LLP, independent public accountants, and the Consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as at September 30, 2010, and the related Consolidated statements of income and cash flows of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries for the nine months then ended, duly certified by the chief financial officer of the Borrower, copies of which have been furnished to each Lender, fairly present in all material respects, subject, in the case of said balance sheet as at September 30, 2010, and said statements of income and cash flows for the nine months then ended, to year-end audit adjustments, the Consolidated financial condition of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as at such dates and the Consolidated results of the operations of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries for the periods ended on such dates, all in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles consistently applied.  Except as disclosed in filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission prior to the date hereof, since December 31, 2009, there has been no Material Adverse Change.
 
(f)           There is no pending or threatened action, suit, investigation, litigation or proceeding affecting the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries before any court, governmental agency or arbitrator that (i) is not disclosed in a filing by the Borrower with the Securities and Exchange Commission and could be reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect or (ii) purports to affect the legality, validity or enforceability of this Agreement or any Note or the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby.
 
(g)           The Borrower is not engaged in the business of extending credit for the purpose of purchasing or carrying margin stock (within the meaning of Regulation U issued by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System), and no proceeds of any Advance will be used to purchase or carry any margin stock or to extend credit to others for the purpose of purchasing or carrying any margin stock.  Following application of the proceeds of each Advance, not more than 25 percent of the value of the assets (either of the Borrower only or of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries on a Consolidated basis) that are subject to a restriction on sale, pledge, or disposal under this Agreement will be represented by margin stock (within the meaning of Regulation U issued by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System).
 
(h)           The Borrower is not an investment company, or a company controlled by an investment company, within the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended.
 
 
 
29
 
 
SECTION 5.01.  .  So long as any Advance shall remain unpaid or any Lender shall have any Commitment hereunder, the Borrower will:
Affirmative Covenants
 
(a)           .  Comply, and cause each of its Subsidiaries to comply, in all material respects, with all applicable laws, rules, regulations and orders, such compliance to include, without limitation, compliance with ERISA and the Patriot Act.
Compliance with Laws, Etc
 
(b)           .  Pay and discharge, and cause each of its Subsidiaries to pay and discharge, before the same shall become delinquent, (i) all taxes, assessments and governmental charges or levies imposed upon it or upon its property and (ii) all lawful claims that, if unpaid, might by law become a Lien upon its property; , , that neither the Borrower nor any of its Subsidiaries shall be required to pay or discharge any such tax, assessment, charge or claim that is being contested in good faith and by proper proceedings and as to whic h appropriate reserves are being maintained, unless and until any Lien resulting therefrom attaches to its property and becomes enforceable against its other creditors.
Payment of Taxes, Etc
provided
however
 
(c)           .  Maintain, and cause each of its Subsidiaries to maintain, insurance with responsible and reputable insurance companies or associations in such amounts and covering such risks as is usually carried by companies engaged in similar businesses and owning similar properties in the same general areas in which the Borrower or such Subsidiary operates; , , that the Borrower and its Subsidiaries may self-insure to the extent consistent with prudent business practice.
Maintenance of Insurance
provided
however
 
(d)           .  Preserve and maintain, and cause each of its Subsidiaries to preserve and maintain, its corporate existence, rights (charter and statutory) and franchises; , , that the Borrower and its Subsidiaries may consummate any merger or consolidation permitted under Section 5.02(b) and that neither the Borrower nor any of its Subsidiaries shall be required to preserve any right or franchise if the Board of Directors of the Borrower or such Subsidiary shall determine that the preservation thereof is no longer desirable in the conduct of the business of the Borrower or such Subsidiary, as the case may be, and that the loss thereof is not disadvantageous in any material respect to the Borrower or such Subsidiary.
Preservation of Corporate Existence, Etc
provided
however
provided
further
 
(e)           .  At any reasonable time and from time to time during normal business hours, permit the Agent or any of the Lenders or any agents or representatives thereof, to examine the records and books of account of, and visit the properties of, the Borrower and any of its Subsidiaries, and, upon execution of a confidentiality agreement, to discuss the affairs, finances and accounts of the Borrower and any of its Subsidiaries with any of the officers or directors of the Borrower and with their independent certified public accountants, , , that examination of the records and books of account of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries shall occur only at times when an Advance or Advances shall be outstanding.
Visitation Rights
provided
however
 
(f)           .  Keep, and cause each of its Subsidiaries to keep, proper books of record and account, in which full and correct entries shall be made of all financial transactions and the assets and business of the Borrower and each such Subsidiary in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in effect from time to time.
Keeping of Books
 
(g)           .  Maintain and preserve, and cause each of its Subsidiaries to maintain and preserve, all of its properties that are used or useful in the conduct of its business in good working order and condition, ordinary wear and tear excepted.
Maintenance of Properties, Etc
 
30
 
 
(h)           .  Furnish to the Lenders:
Reporting Requirements
 
(i)           as soon as available and in any event within 40 days after the end of each of the first three quarters of each fiscal year of the Borrower, the Consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as of the end of such quarter and Consolidated statements of income and cash flows of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries for the period commencing at the end of the previous fiscal year and ending with the end of such quarter, duly certified (subject to year-end audit adjustments) by the chief financial officer of the Borrower as having been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (it being understood that the certification provided by the chief financial officer in compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act is acceptable for this purpose ) and certificates of the chief financial officer of the Borrower as to compliance with the terms of this Agreement and setting forth in reasonable detail the calculations necessary to demonstrate compliance with Section 5.03, that in the event of any change since the date hereof in generally accepted accounting principles used in the preparation of such financial statements, the Borrower shall provide the financial information required for the determination of compliance with Section 5.03 based on GAAP in effect as of the date hereof;
provided
 
(ii)           as soon as available and in any event within 75 days after the end of each fiscal year of the Borrower, a copy of the annual report for such year for the Borrower containing the Consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as of the end of such fiscal year and Consolidated statements of income and cash flows of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries for such fiscal year, in each case accompanied by an opinion by Ernst & Young LLP or other independent public accountants of national standing to the effect that such Consolidated financial statements fairly present its financial condition and results of operations on a Consolidated basis in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles consistently applied and certificates of the chief fina ncial officer of the Borrower as to compliance with the terms of this Agreement and setting forth in reasonable detail the calculations necessary to demonstrate compliance with Section 5.03, that in the event of any change since the date hereof in generally accepted accounting principles used in the preparation of such financial statements, the Borrower shall provide the financial information required for the determination of compliance with Section 5.03 based on GAAP in effect as of the date hereof;
provided
 
(iii)           as soon as possible and in any event within five days after the occurrence of each Default continuing on the date of such statement, a statement of the chief financial officer of the Borrower setting forth details of such Default and the action that the Borrower has taken and proposes to take with respect thereto;
 
(iv)           if Advances are outstanding and if such are not available on the Internet at www.att.com, www.sec.gov or another website designated by the Borrower, promptly after the sending or filing thereof, copies of all reports that the Borrower sends to any of its securityholders, and copies of all reports and registration statements that the Borrower or any Subsidiary files with the Securities and Exchange Commission or any national securities exchange;
 
(v)           prompt notice of the commencement of all actions and proceedings before any court, governmental agency or arbitrator affecting the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries of the type described in Section 4.01(f); and
 
31
 
 
(vi)           such other information respecting the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries as any Lender through the Agent may from time to time reasonably request of a material nature that may reasonably relate to the condition (financial or otherwise), operations, properties or prospects of the Borrower or the Borrower and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole.
 
Reports and financial statements required to be furnished by the Borrower pursuant to clauses (i), (ii) and (iv) of this subsection (h) shall be deemed to have been furnished on the earlier of (A) the date on which such reports and financial statements are posted on the Internet at www.sec.gov or (B) the date on which the Borrower posts such reports, or reports containing such financial statements, on its website on the Internet at www.att.com or at such other website identified by the Borrower in a notice to the Agent and the Lenders and that is accessible by the Lenders without charge; that the Lenders shall be deemed to have received the information specified in clauses (i), (ii) and (iv) of this subsection (h) on the date (x) such information is posted at th e website of the Agent identified from time to time by the Agent to the Lenders and the Borrower and (y) such posting is notified to the Lenders (it being understood that the Borrower shall have satisfied the timing obligations imposed by those clauses as of the earliest date such information is posted on the Internet at www.sec.gov or the website referred to in clause (B) above).
provided
 
SECTION 5.02.  .  So long as any Advance shall remain unpaid or any Lender shall have any Commitment hereunder, the Borrower will not:
Negative Covenants
 
(a)           .  Create or suffer to exist, or permit any of its Subsidiaries to create or suffer to exist, any Lien on or with respect to any of its properties, whether now owned or hereafter acquired, or assign, or permit any of its Subsidiaries to assign, any right to receive income, other than:
Liens, Etc
 
(i)           Permitted Liens,
 
(ii)           purchase money Liens upon or in any real property or equipment acquired or held by the Borrower or any Subsidiary in the ordinary course of business to secure the purchase price of such property or equipment or to secure Debt incurred solely for the purpose of financing the acquisition of such property or equipment, or Liens existing on such property or equipment at the time of its acquisition (other than any such Liens created in contemplation of such acquisition that were not incurred to finance the acquisition of such property) or extensions, renewals or replacements of any of the foregoing for the same or a lesser amount, ,
provided
however< /font>, that no such Lien shall extend to or cover any properties of any character other than the real property or equipment being acquired, and no such extension, renewal or replacement shall extend to or cover any properties not theretofore subject to the Lien being extended, renewed or replaced,
 
(iii)           the Liens existing on the date hereof and described on Schedule 5.02(a) hereto,
 
(iv)           Liens on property of a Person existing at the time such Person is merged into or consolidated with the Borrower or any Subsidiary of the Borrower or becomes a Subsidiary of the Borrower; that such Liens were not created in contemplation of such merger, consolidation or acquisition and do not extend to any assets other than those of the Person so merged into or consolidated with the Borrower or such Subsidiary or acquired by the Borrower or such Subsidiary,
provided
 
32
 
 
(v)           Liens on accounts receivable (and in property securing or otherwise supporting such accounts receivable together with proceeds thereof) of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries in connection with a Receivables Securitization,
 
(vi)           Liens on assets of a Subsidiary that is a regulated telephone company (a ) that, pursuant to the public debt indenture(s) of such Telco, are created upon the merger or conveyance or sale of all or substantially all of the assets of such Telco,
Telco
 
(vii)           Liens on real property securing Debt and other obligations in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed $1,000,000,000 at any time outstanding,
 
(viii)           other Liens securing Debt and other obligations in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed at any time outstanding five percent of Consolidated Net Tangible Assets, and
 
(ix)           the replacement, extension or renewal of any Lien permitted by clause (iii) or (iv) above upon or in the same property theretofore subject thereto or the replacement, extension or renewal (without increase in the amount or change in any direct or contingent obligor) of the Debt secured thereby.
 
(b)           .  Merge or consolidate with or into, or, directly or indirectly, convey, transfer, lease or otherwise dispose of (whether in one transaction or in a series of transactions) all or substantially all of its assets (whether now owned or hereafter acquired) to, any Person.
Mergers, Etc
 
(c)           .  Make or permit, or permit any of its Subsidiaries to make or permit, any change in accounting policies or reporting practices, except as required or permitted by generally accepted accounting principles.
Accounting Changes
 
SECTION 5.03.  .  The Borrower will maintain, as of the last day of each fiscal quarter, a ratio of Consolidated Debt for Borrowed Money to Consolidated EBITDA of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries for the four quarters then ended of not more than 3.0 to 1.
Financial Covenant
 
 
 
SECTION 6.01.  .  If any of the following events () shall occur and be continuing:
Events of Default
Events of Default
 
(a)           The Borrower shall fail to pay any principal of any Advance when the same becomes due and payable; or the Borrower shall fail to pay any interest on any Advance or to make any other payment of fees or other amounts payable under this Agreement or any Note within three Business Days after the same becomes due and payable; or
 
33
 
 
(b)           Any representation or warranty made by the Borrower herein or by the Borrower (or any of its officers) in connection with this Agreement shall prove to have been incorrect in any material respect when made; or
 
(c)           (i) The Borrower shall fail to perform or observe any term, covenant or agreement contained in Section 5.01(d), (e) or (h), 5.02 or 5.03, or (ii) the Borrower shall fail to perform or observe any other term, covenant or agreement contained in this Agreement on its part to be performed or observed if such failure shall remain unremedied for 10 days after written notice thereof shall have been given to the Borrower by the Agent or any Lender; or
 
(d)           The Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries shall fail to pay any principal of or premium or interest on any Debt that is outstanding in a principal or net amount of at least $400,000,000 in the aggregate (but excluding Debt outstanding hereunder) of the Borrower or such Subsidiary (as the case may be), when the same becomes due and payable (whether by scheduled maturity, required prepayment, acceleration, demand or otherwise), and such failure shall continue after the applicable grace period, if any, specified in the agreement or instrument relating to such Debt; or any other event shall occur or condition shall exist under any agreement or instrument relating to any such Debt and shall continue after the applicable grace period, if any, specified in such agreement or instrument, if the effect of such event or condition is to accelerate the maturity of such Debt; or any such Debt shall be declared to be due and payable, or required to be prepaid or redeemed (other than by a regularly scheduled required prepayment or redemption), purchased or defeased, or an offer to prepay, redeem, purchase or defease such Debt shall be required to be made, in each case prior to the stated maturity thereof; or
 
(e)           The Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries shall generally not pay its debts as such debts become due, or shall admit in writing its inability to pay its debts generally, or shall make a general assignment for the benefit of creditors; or any proceeding shall be instituted by or against the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries seeking to adjudicate it a bankrupt or insolvent, or seeking liquidation, winding up, reorganization, arrangement, adjustment, protection, relief, or composition of it or its debts under any law relating to bankruptcy, insolvency or reorganization or relief of debtors, or seeking the entry of an order for relief or the appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian or other similar official for it or for any substantial part of its property and, in the case of any such proceeding instituted against it (but not instituted by it), either such proceeding shall remain undismissed or unstayed for a period of 30 days, or any of the actions sought in such proceeding (including, without limitation, the entry of an order for relief against, or the appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian or other similar official for, it or for any substantial part of its property) shall occur; or the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries shall take any corporate action to authorize any of the actions set forth above in this subsection (e); or
 
(f)           Final and non-appealable judgments or orders for the payment of money in excess of $400,000,000 in the aggregate shall be rendered against the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries thirty days shall have passed since such judgment became final and non-appealable and enforcement proceedings shall have been commenced by any creditor upon such judgment or order; , , that any such judgment or order shall not be an Event of Default under this Section 6.01(f) if and for so long as (i) the amount of such judgment or order is covered by a valid and binding policy of insurance between the defendant and the insurer covering p ayment thereof and (ii) such insurer, which shall be rated at least A by A.M. Best Company, has been notified of, and has not disputed the claim made for payment of, the amount of such judgment or order; or
provided
however
 
(g)           (i) Any Person or two or more Persons acting in concert shall have acquired beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 of the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934), directly or indirectly, of Voting Stock of the Borrower (or other securities convertible into such Voting Stock) representing more than 50% of the combined voting power of all Voting Stock of the Borrower; or (ii) during any period of up to 24 consecutive months, commencing after the date of this Agreement, individuals who at the beginning of such 24-month period were directors of the Borrower shall cease for any reason (other than due to retirement, death or disability) to constitute a majority of the board of directors of the Borrower ( except to the extent that individuals who at the beginning of such 24-month period were replaced by individuals (x) elected by 66-2/3% of the remaining members of the board of directors of the Borrower or (y) nominated for election by a majority of the remaining members of the board of directors of the Borrower and thereafter elected as directors by the shareholders of the Borrower); or
 
34
 
 
(h)           The Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate shall fail to satisfy minimum funding requirements under Section 412 of the Code or Section 302 of ERISA to any Plan, or apply for a waiver of such requirements;
 
then, and in any such event, the Agent (i) shall at the request, or may with the consent, of the Required Lenders, by notice to the Borrower, declare the obligation of each Lender to make Advances to be terminated, whereupon the same shall forthwith terminate, and (ii) shall at the request, or may with the consent, of the Required Lenders, by notice to the Borrower, declare the Advances, all interest thereon and all other amounts payable under this Agreement to be forthwith due and payable, whereupon the Advances, all such interest and all such amounts shall become and be forthwith due and payable, without presentment, demand, protest or further notice of any kind, all of which are hereby expressly waived by the Borrower; , , that in the event of an actual or deemed entry of an order for relief with respect to the Borrower under the Federal Bankruptcy Code, (A) the obligation of each Lender to make Advances shall automatically be terminated and (B) the Advances, all such interest and all such amounts shall automatically become and be due and payable, without presentment, demand, protest or any notice of any kind, all of which are hereby expressly waived by the Borrower.
provided
however
 
 
 
SECTION 7.01.  .  Each Lender hereby irrevocably appoints Citibank, N.A. to act on its behalf as the Agent hereunder and under the Notes and authorizes the Agent to take such actions on its behalf and to exercise such powers as are delegated to the Agent by the terms hereof, together with such actions and powers as are reasonably incidental thereto.  The provisions of this Article are solely for the benefit of the Agent and the Lenders, and the Borrower shall have no rights as a third party beneficiary of any of such provisions.
Authorization and Authority
 
SECTION 7.02.  .  (a)  The Person serving as the Agent hereunder shall have the same rights and powers in its capacity as a Lender as any other Lender and may exercise the same as though it were not the Agent and the term Lender or Lenders shall, unless otherwise expressly indicated or unless the context otherwise requires, include the Person serving as the Agent hereunder in its individual capacity.  Such Person and its Affiliates may accept deposits from, lend money to, act as the financial advisor or in any other advisory capacity for and generally engage in any kind of business with the Borrower or any Subsidiary or other Affiliate thereof as if such Person were not the Agent hereun der and without any duty to account therefor to the Lenders.
Agent Individually
 
(b)           Each Lender understands that the Person serving as Agent, acting in its individual capacity, and its Affiliates (collectively, the ) are engaged in a wide range of financial services and businesses (including investment management, financing, securities trading, corporate and investment banking and research) (such services and businesses are collectively referred to in this Section 7.02 as ) and may engage in the Activities with or on behalf of the Borrower or its Affiliates.  Furthermore, the Agents Group may, in undertaking the Activities, engage in trading in fina ncial products or undertake other investment businesses for its own account or on behalf of others (including the Borrower and its Affiliates and including holding, for its own account or on behalf of others, equity, debt and similar positions in the Borrower or its Affiliates), including trading in or holding long, short or derivative positions in securities, loans or other financial products of one or more of the Borrower and its Affiliates.  Each Lender understands and agrees that in engaging in the Activities, the Agents Group may receive or otherwise obtain information concerning the Borrower and its Affiliates (including information concerning the ability of the Borrower to perform its obligations hereunder) which information may not be available to any of the Lenders that are not members of the Agents Group.  None of the Agent nor any member of the Agents Group shall have any duty to disclose to any Lender or use on behalf of the Lenders, and shall not be liabl e for the failure to so disclose or use, any information whatsoever about or derived from the Activities or otherwise (including any information concerning the business, prospects, operations, property, financial and other condition or creditworthiness of the Borrower) or to account for any revenue or profits obtained in connection with the Activities, except that the Agent shall deliver or otherwise make available to each Lender such documents as are expressly required by this Agreement to be transmitted by the Agent to the Lenders.
Agents Group
Activities
 
35
 
 
(c)           Each Lender further understands that there may be situations where members of the Agents Group or their respective customers (including the Borrower and its Affiliates) either now have or may in the future have interests or take actions that may conflict with the interests of any one or more of the Lenders (including the interests of the Lenders hereunder).  Each Lender agrees that no member of the Agents Group is or shall be required to restrict its activities as a result of the Person serving as Agent being a member of the Agents Group, and that each member of the Agents Group may undertake any Activities without further consultation with or notification to any Lender.  None of (i) this Agreement, (ii) the receipt by the Agents Group of information (including Confidential Information) concerning the Borrower or its Affiliates (including information concerning the ability of the Borrower to perform its obligations hereunder) nor (iii) any other matter shall give rise to any fiduciary, equitable or contractual duties (including without limitation any duty of trust or confidence) owing by the Agent or any member of the Agents Group to any Lender including any such duty that would prevent or restrict the Agents Group from acting on behalf of customers (including the Borrower or its Affiliates) or for its own account.
 
SECTION 7.03.  .  (a)  The Agents duties hereunder are solely ministerial and administrative in nature and the Agent shall not have any duties or obligations except those expressly set forth herein.  Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Agent shall not have any duty to take any discretionary action or exercise any discretionary powers, but shall be required to act or refrain from acting (and shall be fully protected in so acting or refraining from acting) upon the written direction of the Required Lenders (or such other number or percentage of the Lenders as shall be expressly provided for herein), that the Agent shall not be required to take any action that, in its opinion or the opinion of its counsel, may expose the Agent or any of its Affiliates to liability or that is contrary to this Agreement or applicable law.
Duties of Agent; Exculpatory Provisions
provided
 
(b)           The Agent shall not be liable for any action taken or not taken by it (i) with the consent or at the request of the Required Lenders (or such other number or percentage of the Lenders as shall be necessary, or as the Agent shall believe in good faith shall be necessary, under the circumstances as provided in Sections 8.01 or 6.01) or (ii) in the absence of its own gross negligence or willful misconduct.  The Agent shall be deemed not to have knowledge of any Default or the event or events that give or may give rise to any Default unless and until the Borrower or any Lender shall have given notice to the Agent describing such Default and such event or events.
 
36
 
 
(c)           Neither the Agent nor any member of the Agents Group shall be responsible for or have any duty to ascertain or inquire into (i) any statement, warranty, representation or other information made or supplied in or in connection with this Agreement or the Information Memorandum, (ii) the contents of any certificate, report or other document delivered hereunder or thereunder or in connection herewith or therewith or the adequacy, accuracy and/or completeness of the information contained therein, (iii) the performance or observance of any of the covenants, agreements or other terms or conditions set forth herein or therein or the occurrence of any Default, (iv) the validity, enforceability, effectiveness or genuineness of this Agreement or any o ther agreement, instrument or document or the perfection or priority of any Lien or security interest created or purported to be created hereby or (v) the satisfaction of any condition set forth in Article III or elsewhere herein, other than (but subject to the foregoing clause (ii)) to confirm receipt of items expressly required to be delivered to the Agent.
 
(d)           Nothing in this Agreement shall require the Agent or any of its Related Parties to carry out any know your customer or other checks in relation to any person on behalf of any Lender and each Lender confirms to the Agent that it is solely responsible for any such checks it is required to carry out and that it may not rely on any statement in relation to such checks made by the Agent or any of its Related Parties.
 
SECTION 7.04.  .  The Agent shall be entitled to rely upon, and shall not incur any liability for relying upon, any notice, request, certificate, consent, statement, instrument, document or other writing (including any electronic message, Internet or intranet website posting or other distribution) believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed, sent or otherwise authenticated by the proper Person.  The Agent also may rely upon any statement made to it orally or by telephone and believed by it to have been made by the proper Person, and shall not incur any liability for relying thereon.  In determining compliance with any condition hereunder to the making of an Advance that by its terms must be fulfilled to th e satisfaction of a Lender, the Agent may presume that such condition is satisfactory to such Lender unless an officer of the Agent responsible for the transactions contemplated hereby shall have received notice to the contrary from such Lender prior to the making of such Advance, and such Lender shall not have made available to the Agent such Lenders ratable portion of the applicable Borrowing.  The Agent may consult with legal counsel (who may be counsel for the Borrower), independent accountants and other experts selected by it, and shall not be liable for any action taken or not taken by it in accordance with the advice of any such counsel, accountants or experts.
Reliance by Agent
 
SECTION 7.05.  .  The Agent may perform any and all of its duties and exercise its rights and powers hereunder by or through any one or more sub-agents appointed by the Agent.  The Agent and any such sub-agent may perform any and all of its duties and exercise its rights and powers by or through their respective Related Parties.  Each such sub-agent and the Related Parties of the Agent and each such sub-agent shall be entitled to the benefits of all provisions of this Article VII and Section 8.04(as though such sub-agents were the Agent hereunder) as if set forth in full herein with respect thereto.
Delegation of Duties
 
 
SECTION 7.06.  .  (a) The Agent may at any time give notice of its resignation to the Lenders and the Borrower.  At any time when the Agent or its Affiliate is a Defaulting Lender, the Required Lenders may, and upon the request of the Borrower shall, remove the Agent by giving notice to the Agent.  Upon receipt or giving of any such notice of resignation, the Required Lenders shall have the right, in consultation with the Borrower, to appoint a successor, which shall be a bank with an office in New York, New York, or an Affiliate of any such bank with an office in New York, New York.  If no such successor shall have been so appointed by the Required Lenders and shall have accepted such appointment with in 30 days after the retiring Agent gives notice of its resignation (such 30-day period, the ), then the retiring Agent may on behalf of the Lenders, appoint a successor Agent meeting the qualifications set forth above.  In addition and without any obligation on the part of the retiring Agent to appoint, on behalf of the Lenders, a successor Agent, the retiring Agent may at any time upon or after the end of the Lender Appointment Period notify the Borrower and the Lenders that no qualifying Person has accepted appointment as successor Agent and the effective date of such retiring Agents resignation.  Upon the resignation effective date established in such notice and regardless of whether a successor Agent has been appointed and accepted such appointment, the retiring Agents resignation shall nonetheless become effective and (i) the retiring Agent shall be dischar ged from its duties and obligations as Agent hereunder and (ii) all payments, communications and determinations provided to be made by, to or through the Agent shall instead be made by or to each Lender directly, until such time as the Required Lenders appoint a successor Agent as provided for above in this paragraph.  Upon the acceptance of a successors appointment as Agent hereunder, such successor shall succeed to and become vested with all of the rights, powers, privileges and duties as Agent of the retiring (or retired) Agent, and the retiring Agent shall be discharged from all of its duties and obligations as Agent hereunder (if not already discharged therefrom as provided above in this paragraph).  The fees payable by the Borrower to a successor Agent shall be the same as those payable to its predecessor unless otherwise agreed between the Borrower and such successor.  After the retiring Agents resignation hereunder, the provisions of this Article and S ection 8.04 shall continue in effect for the benefit of such retiring Agent, its sub-agents and their respective Related Parties in respect of any actions taken or omitted to be taken by any of them while the retiring Agent was acting as Agent.
Resignation of Agent
Lender Appointment Period
 
37
 
 
SECTION 7.07.  .  (a)  Each Lender confirms to the Agent, each other Lender and each of their respective Related Parties that it (i) possesses (individually or through its Related Parties) such knowledge and experience in financial and business matters that it is capable, without reliance on the Agent, any other Lender or any of their respective Related Parties, of evaluating the merits and risks (including tax, legal, regulatory, credit, accounting and other financial matters) of (x) entering into this Agreement, (y) making Advances and other extensions of credit hereunder and (z) in taking or not taking actions hereunder and thereunder, (ii) is financially able to bear such risks and (iii) has determi ned that entering into this Agreement and making Advances and other extensions of credit hereunder is suitable and appropriate for it.
Non-Reliance on Agent and Other Lenders
 
(b)           Each Lender acknowledges that (i) it is solely responsible for making its own independent appraisal and investigation of all risks arising under or in connection with this Agreement, (ii) that it has, independently and without reliance upon the Agent, any other Lender or any of their respective Related Parties, made its own appraisal and investigation of all risks associated with, and its own credit analysis and decision to enter into, this Agreement based on such documents and information, as it has deemed appropriate and (iii) it will, independently and without reliance upon the Agent, any other Lender or any of their respective Related Parties, continue to be solely responsible for making its own appraisal and investigation of all risks arising under or in connect ion with, and its own credit analysis and decision to take or not take action under, this Agreement based on such documents and information as it shall from time to time deem appropriate, which may include, in each case:
 
(i)           the financial condition, status and capitalization of the Borrower;
(ii)           the legality, validity, effectiveness, adequacy or enforceability of this Agreement and any other agreement, arrangement or document entered into, made or executed in anticipation of, under or in connection with this Agreement;
(iii)           determining compliance or non-compliance with any condition hereunder to the making of an Advance and the form and substance of all evidence delivered in connection with establishing the satisfaction of each such condition;
 
38
 
 
(iv)           the adequacy, accuracy and/or completeness of the Information Memorandum and any other information delivered by the Agent, any other Lender or by any of their respective Related Parties under or in connection with this Agreement, the transactions contemplated hereby and thereby or any other agreement, arrangement or document entered into, made or executed in anticipation of, under or in connection with this Agreement.
SECTION 7.08.  .  The Lenders agree to indemnify the Agent (to the extent not reimbursed by the Borrower), ratably according to the respective principal amounts of the Advances then owed to each of them (or if no Advances are at the time outstanding, ratably according to the respective amounts of their Commitments), from and against any and all liabilities, obligations, losses, damages, penalties, actions, judgments, suits, costs, expenses or disbursements of any kind or nature whatsoever that may be imposed on, incurred by, or asserted against the Agent in any way relating to or arising out of this Agreement or any action taken or omitted by the Agent under this Agreement (collectively, the ), that no Lender shall be liable for any portion of the Indemnified Costs resulting from the Agents gross negligence or willful misconduct.  Without limitation of the foregoing, each Lender agrees to reimburse the Agent promptly upon demand for its ratable share of any out-of-pocket expenses (including reasonable counsel fees) incurred by the Agent in connection with the preparation, execution, delivery, administration, modification, amendment or enforcement (whether through negotiations, legal proceedings or otherwise) of, or legal advice in respect of rights or responsibilities under, this Agreement, to the extent that the Agent is not reimbursed for such expenses by the Borrower.  In the case of any investigation, litigation or proceeding giving rise to any Indemnified Costs, this Section 7.08 applies whether any such investigation, litigation or pro ceeding is brought by the Agent, any Lender or a third party.
Indemnification
Indemnified Costs
provided
 
SECTION 7.09.    Each Lender hereby acknowledges that neither the syndication agent, the documentation agents nor any other Lender designated as any Agent on the signature pages hereof (other than the Agent) has any liability hereunder other than in its capacity as a Lender.
Other Agents.
 
 
 
SECTION 8.01.  .  No amendment or waiver of any provision of this Agreement or the Notes, nor consent to any departure by the Borrower therefrom, shall in any event be effective unless the same shall be in writing and signed by the Required Lenders, and then such waiver or consent shall be effective only in the specific instance and for the specific purpose for which given; , , that no amendment, waiver or consent shall, unless in writing and signed by all the Lenders, do any of the following:  (a) waive any of the conditions specified in Section 3.01, (b) increase or, subject to Section 2.18, extend the Commitments of the Lenders, (c) reduce the principal of, or rate of interest on, the Advances or any fees or other amounts payable hereunder, (d) postpone any date fixed for any payment of principal of, or interest on, the Advances or any fees or other amounts payable hereunder, (e) change the percentage of the Commitments or of the aggregate unpaid principal amount of the Advances, or the number of Lenders, that shall be required for the Lenders or any of them to take any action hereunder, (f) add any currencies to the definition of Committed Currencies or (g) amend this Section 8.01; and that no amendment, waiver or consent shall, unless in writing and signed by the Agent in addition to the Lenders required above to take such action, affect the rights or duties of the Agent under this Agreement or any Note.
Amendments, Etc
provided
however
provided
further
 
SECTION 8.02.  .  (a)  All notices and other communications provided for hereunder shall be either (x) in writing (including telecopier communication) and mailed, telecopied or delivered or (y) as and to the extent set forth in Section 8.02(b), if to the Borrower, at its address at 208 S. Akard Street, 27th Floor, Dallas, Texas  75202, Attention:  Assistant Treasurer; if to any Initial Lender, at its Domestic Lending Office specified opposite its name on Schedule I hereto; if to any other Lender, at its Domestic Lending Office specified in the Assumption Agreement or the Assignment and Acceptance pursuant to which it became a Lender; and if to the Agent, at its address at 1615 Brett Road, Building #3, New Castle, Delaware 19720, Attention: Bank Loan Syndications Department; or, as to the Borrower or the Agent, at such other address as shall be designated by such party in a written notice to the other parties and, as to each other party, at such other address as shall be designated by such party in a written notice to the Borrower and the Agent.  All such notices and communications shall be effective when received.  Delivery by telecopier of an executed counterpart of any amendment or waiver of any provision of this Agreement or the Notes or of any Exhibit hereto to be executed and delivered hereunder shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart thereof.
Notices, Etc
 
39
 
 
(b)           So long as Citibank or any of its Affiliates is the Agent, such materials as the Borrower and the Agent shall agree shall be delivered to the Agent in an electronic medium in a format acceptable to the Agent and the Lenders by e-mail at oploanswebadmin@citigroup.com.  With the Borrowers prior consent, the Agent may make such materials, as well as any other written information, documents, instruments and other material relating to the Borrower, any of its Subsidiaries or any other materials, notices, requests or matters relating to this Agreement, the Notes or any of the transactions contemplated hereby (collectively, the ) available to the Lenders by posting such notices on Intralinks or a substantially similar electronic system (the ); , , that the Borrowers prior consent is not required in the event such information is publicly available.  The Borrower acknowledges that (i) the distribution of material through an electronic medium is not necessarily secure and that there are confidentiality and other risks associated with such distribution, (ii) the Platform and the Communications are provided as is and as available and (iii) neither the Agent nor any of its Affiliates warrants the accuracy, adequacy or completeness of the Communications or the Platform and each expressly disclaims liability for errors or omissions in the Communications or the Platform.  No warranty of any kind, express, implied or statutory, including, without limitation, any warranty of merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose, non-infringement of third party rights or freedom from viruses or other code defects, is made by the Agent or any of its Affiliates in connection with the Platform.
Communications
Platform
provided
however
 
(c)           Each Lender agrees that notice to it (as provided in the next sentence) (a ) specifying that any Communications have been posted to the Platform shall constitute effective delivery of such information, documents or other materials to such Lender for purposes of this Agreement; that if requested by any Lender the Agent shall deliver a copy of the Communications to such Lender by email or telecopier.  Each Lender agrees (i) to notify the Agent in writing of such Lenders e-mail address to which a Notice may be sent by electronic transmission (including by electronic communication) on or before the date such Lender becomes a party to this Agreement (and from time to time thereafter to ensure that the Agent has on record an effective e-mail address for such Lender) and (ii) that any Notice may be sent to such e-mail address.
Notice
provided
 
SECTION 8.03.  .  No failure on the part of any Lender or the Agent to exercise, and no delay in exercising, any right hereunder or under any Note shall operate as a waiver thereof; nor shall any single or partial exercise of any such right preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right.  The remedies herein provided are cumulative and not exclusive of any remedies provided by law.
No Waiver; Remedies
 
SECTION 8.04.  .  (a)  The Borrower agrees to pay on demand all costs and expenses of the Agent in connection with the preparation, execution, delivery, administration, modification and amendment of this Agreement, the Notes and the other documents to be delivered hereunder, including, without limitation, (A) all due diligence, syndication (including printing, distribution and bank meetings), transportation, computer, duplication, appraisal, consultant, and audit expenses and (B) the reasonable fees and expenses of Shearman & Sterling LLP, counsel for the Agent, with respect thereto and with respect to advising the Agent as to its rights and responsibilities under this Agreement.  The Borrower furthe r agrees to pay on demand all costs and expenses of the Agent and the Lenders, if any (including, without limitation, reasonable counsel fees and expenses), in connection with the enforcement (whether through negotiations, legal proceedings or otherwise) of this Agreement, the Notes and the other documents to be delivered hereunder, including, without limitation, reasonable fees and expenses of counsel for the Agent and each Lender in connection with the enforcement of rights under this Section 8.04(a).
Costs and Expenses
 
40
 
 
(b)           The Borrower agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the Agent and each Lender and each of their Affiliates and their officers, directors, employees, agents and advisors (each, an ) from and against any and all claims, damages, losses, liabilities and expenses (including, without limitation, reasonable fees and expenses of counsel) incurred by or asserted or awarded against any Indemnified Party, in each case arising out of or in connection with or by reason of (including, without limitation, in connection with any investigation, litigation or proceeding or preparation of a defense in connection therewith) the Notes, this Agreement, any of the transactions contemplated herei n or the actual or proposed use of the proceeds of the Advances, except to the extent such claim, damage, loss, liability or expense is found in a final, non-appealable judgment by a court of competent jurisdiction to have resulted from such Indemnified Partys gross negligence or willful misconduct.  In the case of an investigation, litigation or other proceeding to which the indemnity in this Section 8.04(b) applies, such indemnity shall be effective whether or not such investigation, litigation or proceeding is brought by the Borrower, its directors, equityholders or creditors or an Indemnified Party or any other Person, whether or not any Indemnified Party is otherwise a party thereto and whether or not the transactions contemplated hereby are consummated.  The Borrower also agrees not to assert any claim for special, indirect, consequential or punitive damages against the Agent, any Lender, any of their Affiliates, or any of their respective directors, officers, employees, atto rneys and agents, on any theory of liability, arising out of or otherwise relating to the Notes, this Agreement, any of the transactions contemplated herein or the actual or proposed use of the proceeds of the Advances.
Indemnified Party
 
(c)           If any payment of principal of, or Conversion of, any Eurocurrency Rate Advance is made by the Borrower to or for the account of a Lender other than on the last day of the Interest Period for such Advance, as a result of a payment or Conversion pursuant to Section 2.07(d) or (e), 2.09 or 2.11, acceleration of the maturity of the Notes pursuant to Section 6.01 or for any other reason, or by an Eligible Assignee to a Lender other than on the last day of the Interest Period for such Advance upon an assignment of rights and obligations under this Agreement pursuant to Section 8.06 as a result of a demand by the Borrower pursuant to Section 8.06(a), the Borrower shall, upon demand by such Lender (with a copy of such demand to the Agent), pay to the Agent for the account of such Lender any amounts required to compensate such Lender for any additional losses, costs or expenses that it may reasonably incur as a result of such payment or Conversion, including, without limitation, any loss (excluding loss of anticipated profits), cost or expense incurred by reason of the liquidation or reemployment of deposits or other funds acquired by any Lender to fund or maintain such Advance  If the amount of the Committed Currency purchased by any Lender in the case of a Conversion or exchange of Advances in the case of Section 2.08 or 2.12 exceeds the sum required to satisfy such Lenders liability in respect of such Advances, such Lender agrees to remit to the Borrower such excess.
 
(d)           Without prejudice to the survival of any other agreement of the Borrower hereunder, the agreements and obligations of the Borrower contained in Sections 2.10, 2.13 and 8.04 shall survive the payment in full of principal, interest and all other amounts payable hereunder and under the Notes.
 
41
 
 
SECTION 8.05.  .  This Agreement shall become effective (other than Section 2.01, which shall only become effective upon satisfaction of the conditions precedent set forth in Section 3.01) when it shall have been executed by the Borrower and the Agent and when the Agent shall have been notified by each Initial Lender that such Initial Lender has executed it and thereafter shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the Borrower, the Agent and each Lender and their respective successors and assigns, except that the Borrower shall not have the right to assign its rights hereunder or any interest herein without the prior written consent of each of the Lenders.
Binding Effect
 
SECTION 8.06.  .  (a)  Each Lender may and, if demanded by the Borrower (following a demand by such Lender pursuant to Section 2.10 or 2.13 or upon such Lender becoming a Defaulting Lender) upon at least five Business Days notice to such Lender and the Agent, will assign to one or more Persons all or a portion of its rights and obligations under this Agreement (including, without limitation, all or a portion of its Commitment, the Advances owing to it and the Note or Notes held by it); , , that (i) each such assignment shall be of a constant, and not a varying, percentage of all rights and obligations under this Agreement, (ii) except in the case of an assignment to a Person that, immediately prior to such assignment, was a Lender or an assignment of all of a Lenders rights and obligations under this Agreement, the amount of the Commitment of the assigning Lender being assigned pursuant to each such assignment (determined as of the date of the Assignment and Acceptance with respect to such assignment) shall in no event be less than $10,000,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof unless the Borrower and the Agent otherwise agree, (iii) each such assignment shall be to an Eligible Assignee, (iv) each such assignment made as a result of a demand by the Borrower pursuant to this Section 8.06(a) shall be arranged by the Borrower after consultation with the Agent and shall be either an assignment of all of the rights and obligations of the assigning Lender under this Agreement or an assignment of a portion of such rights and obligations made concurrently with another such assignment or other such assignments that together cover all of the rights and obligations of the assigning Lender under this Agreement, (v) no Lender shall be obligated to make any such assignment as a result of a demand by the Borrower pursuant to this Section 8.06(a) unless and until such Lender shall have received one or more payments from either the Borrower or one or more Eligible Assignees in an aggregate amount at least equal to the aggregate outstanding principal amount of the Advances owing to such Lender, together with accrued interest thereon to the date of payment of such principal amount and, subject to Section 2.19, all other amounts payable to such Lender under this Agreement, and (vi) the parties to each such assignment shall execute and deliver to the Agent, for its acceptance and recording in the Register, an Assignment and Acceptance, together with any Note subject to such assignment and a processing and recordation fee o f $3,500 payable by the parties to each such assignment (not including the Borrower), , , that in the case of each assignment made as a result of a demand by the Borrower, such recordation fee shall be payable by the Borrower except that no such recordation fee shall be payable in the case of an assignment made at the request of the Borrower to an Eligible Assignee that is an existing Lender, and (vii) any Lender may, without the approval of the Borrower and the Agent, assign all or a portion of its rights to any of its Affiliates.  Upon such execution, delivery, acceptance and recording, from and after the effective date specified in each Assignment and Acceptance, (x) the assignee thereunder shall be a party hereto and, to the extent that rights and obligations hereunder have been assigned to it pursuant to such Assignment and Acceptance, have the r ights and obligations of a Lender hereunder and (y) the Lender assignor thereunder shall, to the extent that rights and obligations hereunder have been assigned by it pursuant to such Assignment and Acceptance, relinquish its rights (other than its rights under Section 2.10, 2.13 and 8.04 to the extent any claim thereunder relates to an event arising prior such assignment) and be released from its obligations (other than its obligations under Section 7.08 to the extent any claim thereunder relates to an event arising prior to such assignment) under this Agreement (and, in the case of an Assignment and Acceptance covering all or the remaining portion of an assigning Lenders rights and obligations under this Agreement, such Lender shall cease to be a party hereto).
Assignments and Participations
provided
however
provided
however
 
42
 
 
(b)           By executing and delivering an Assignment and Acceptance, the Lender assignor thereunder and the assignee thereunder confirm to and agree with each other and the other parties hereto as follows:  (i) other than as provided in such Assignment and Acceptance, such assigning Lender makes no representation or warranty and assumes no responsibility with respect to any statements, warranties or representations made in or in connection with this Agreement or the execution, legality, validity, enforceability, genuineness, sufficiency or value of this Agreement or any other instrument or document furnished pursuant hereto; (ii) such assigning Lender makes no representation or warranty and assumes no responsibility with respect to the financial condition of the Borrower or the performance or observance by the Borrower of any of its obligations under this Agreement or any other instrument or document furnished pursuant hereto; (iii) such assignee confirms that it has received a copy of this Agreement, together with copies of the financial statements referred to in Section 4.01 and such other documents and information as it has deemed appropriate to make its own credit analysis and decision to enter into such Assignment and Acceptance; (iv) such assignee will, independently and without reliance upon the Agent, such assigning Lender or any other Lender and based on such documents and information as it shall deem appropriate at the time, continue to make its own credit decisions in taking or not taking action under this Agreement; (v) such assignee confirms that it is an Eligible Assignee; (vi) such assignee appoints and authorizes the Agent to take such action as agent on its behalf and to exercise such powers and discretion under this Ag reement as are delegated to the Agent by the terms hereof, together with such powers and discretion as are reasonably incidental thereto; and (vii) such assignee agrees that it will perform in accordance with their terms all of the obligations that by the terms of this Agreement are required to be performed by it as a Lender.
 
(c)           Upon its receipt of an Assignment and Acceptance executed by an assigning Lender and an assignee representing that it is an Eligible Assignee, together with any Note or Notes subject to such assignment, the Agent shall, if such Assignment and Acceptance has been completed and is in substantially the form of Exhibit C hereto, (i) accept such Assignment and Acceptance, (ii) record the information contained therein in the Register and (iii) give prompt notice thereof to the Borrower.
 
(d)           The Agent shall maintain at its address referred to in Section 8.02 a copy of each Assumption Agreement and each Assignment and Acceptance delivered to and accepted by it and a register for the recordation of the names and addresses of the Lenders and the Commitment of, and principal amount of the Advances owing to, each Lender from time to time (the ).  In addition, the Agent shall maintain on the Register information regarding the designation and revocation of designation of any Lender as a Defaulting Lender.  The entries in the Register shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes, absent manifest error, and the Borrower, the Agent and the Lenders ma y treat each Person whose name is recorded in the Register as a Lender hereunder for all purposes of this Agreement.  The Register shall be available for inspection by the Borrower or any Lender at any reasonable time and from time to time upon reasonable prior notice.
Register
 
(e)           Each Lender may sell participations to one or more banks or other entities (other than the Borrower or any of its Affiliates) in or to all or a portion of its rights and obligations under this Agreement (including, without limitation, all or a portion of its Commitment, the Advances owing to it and any Note or Notes held by it); , , that (i) such Lenders obligations under this Agreement (including, without limitation, its Commitment to the Borrower hereunder) shall remain unchanged, (ii) such Lender shall remain solely responsible to the other parties hereto for the performance of such obligations, (iii) 0;such Lender shall remain the holder of any such Note for all purposes of this Agreement, (iv) the Borrower, the Agent and the other Lenders shall continue to deal solely and directly with such Lender in connection with such Lenders rights and obligations under this Agreement and (v) no participant under any such participation shall have any right to approve any amendment or waiver of any provision of this Agreement or any Note, or any consent to any departure by the Borrower therefrom, except to the extent that such amendment, waiver or consent would reduce the principal of, or interest on, the Notes or any fees or other amounts payable hereunder, in each case to the extent subject to such participation, or postpone any date fixed for any payment of principal of, or interest on, the Notes or any fees or other amounts payable hereunder, in each case to the extent subject to such participation.
provided
however
 
43
 
 
(f)           Any Lender may, in connection with any assignment or participation or proposed assignment or participation pursuant to this Section 8.06, disclose to the assignee or participant or proposed assigneeor participant, any information relating to the Borrower furnished to such Lender by or on behalf of the Borrower; that, prior to any such disclosure, the assignee or participant or proposed assigneeor participant shall agree to preserve the confidentiality of any Confidential Information relating to the Borrower received by it from such Lender.
 
provided
 
 
(g)           Notwithstanding any other provision set forth in this Agreement, any Lender may at any time create a security interest in all or any portion of its rights under this Agreement to secure obligations of such Lender, including, without limitation, any pledge or assignment to secure obligations to a Federal Reserve Bank in accordance with Regulation A of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System.
 
SECTION 8.07.  .  Neither the Agent nor any Lender shall disclose any Confidential Information to any other Person without the consent of the Borrower, other than (a) to the Agents or such Lenders Affiliates and their officers, directors, employees, agents and advisors on a need to know basis and, as contemplated by Section 8.06(f), to actual or prospective assignees and participants, and then, in each case, only if such Person agrees to be bound by the provisions of this Section 8.07, (b) as required by any law, rule or regulation or judicial process, (c) as requested or required by any state, federal or foreign authority or examiner regulating banks or banking or other finan cial institutions or self regulatory authority and (d) in connection with the exercise of any remedies hereunder or any suit, action or proceeding relating to this Agreement or the enforcement of rights hereunder.  In the case of a disclosure pursuant to clause (b) above, the disclosing party agrees, to the extent permitted by applicable law, to promptly notify the Borrower prior to such disclosure and to request confidential treatment.  Each of the Lenders hereby notifies the Borrower that, pursuant to the requirements of the Patriot Act, it is required to obtain, verify and record information that identifies the Borrower, which information includes the name and address of the Borrower and other information that will allow it to identify the Borrower in accordance with the Patriot Act.
Confidentiality; Patriot Act
 
SECTION 8.08.  .  This Agreement and the Notes shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.
Governing Law
 
SECTION 8.09.  .  This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts and by different parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original and all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement.  Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page to this Agreement by telecopier shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Agreement.
Execution in Counterparts
 
SECTION 8.10.  .  (a)  Each of the parties hereto hereby irrevocably and unconditionally submits, for itself and its property, to the exclusive jurisdiction of any New York State court or federal court of the United States of America sitting in New York City, Borough of Manhattan, and any appellate court from any thereof, in any action or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement or the Notes, or for recognition or enforcement of any judgment, and each of the parties hereto hereby irrevocably and unconditionally agrees that all claims in respect of any such action or proceeding may be heard and determined in any such New York State court or, to the extent permitted by law, in such federal court.& #160; The Borrower hereby agrees that service of process in any such action or proceeding brought in the any such New York State court or in such federal court may be made upon the Corporate Secretary of the Borrower at 208 S. Akard Street, 27th Floor, Dallas, Texas  75202 (the ) and the Borrower hereby irrevocably appoints the Process Agent its authorized agent to accept such service of process.  The Borrower hereby further irrevocably consents to the service of process in any action or proceeding in such courts by the mailing thereof by any parties hereto by registered or certified mail, postage prepaid, to the Borrower at its address specified pursuant to Section 8.02.  Each of the parties hereto agrees that a final judgment in any such action or proceeding shall be conclusive and may be enforced in other jurisdictions by suit on the judgment or in any other manner provided by law .  Nothing in this Agreement shall affect any right that any party may otherwise have to bring any action or proceeding relating to this Agreement or the Notes in the courts of any jurisdiction.
Jurisdiction, Etc
Process Agent
 
44
 
 
(b)           Each of the parties hereto irrevocably and unconditionally waives, to the fullest extent it may legally and effectively do so, any objection that it may now or hereafter have to the laying of venue of any suit, action or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement or the Notes in any New York State or federal court.  Each of the parties hereto hereby irrevocably waives, to the fullest extent permitted by law, the defense of an inconvenient forum to the maintenance of such action or proceeding in any such court.
 
SECTION 8.11.  .  (a)  If for the purposes of obtaining judgment in any court it is necessary to convert a sum due hereunder in Dollars into another currency, the parties hereto agree, to the fullest extent that they may effectively do so, that the rate of exchange used shall be that at which in accordance with normal banking procedures the Agent could purchase Dollars with such other currency at Citibanks principal office in London at 11:00 A.M. (London time) on the Business Day preceding that on which final judgment is given.
Judgment
 
(b)           If for the purposes of obtaining judgment in any court it is necessary to convert a sum due hereunder in a Committed Currency into Dollars, the parties agree to the fullest extent that they may effectively do so, that the rate of exchange used shall be that at which in accordance with normal banking procedures the Agent could purchase such Committed Currency with Dollars at Citibanks principal office in London at 11:00 A.M. (London time) on the Business Day preceding that on which final judgment is given.
 
(c)           The obligation of the Borrower in respect of any sum due from it in any currency (the ) to any Lender or the Agent hereunder shall, notwithstanding any judgment in any other currency, be discharged only to the extent that on the Business Day following receipt by such Lender or the Agent (as the case may be), of any sum adjudged to be so due in such other currency, such Lender or the Agent (as the case may be) may in accordance with normal banking procedures purchase the applicable Primary Currency with such other currency; if the amount of the applicable Primary Currency so purchased is less than such sum due to such Lender or the Agent (as the case may be) in the applicabl e Primary Currency, the Borrower agrees, as a separate obligation and notwithstanding any such judgment, to indemnify such Lender or the Agent (as the case may be) against such loss, and if the amount of the applicable Primary Currency so purchased exceeds such sum due to any Lender or the Agent (as the case may be) in the applicable Primary Currency, such Lender or the Agent (as the case may be) agrees to remit to the Borrower such excess.
Primary Currency
 
SECTION 8.12.  .  If a change in any Committed Currency occurs pursuant to any applicable law, rule or regulation of any governmental, monetary or multi-national authority, this Agreement (including, without limitation, the definitions of Eurocurrency Rate) will be amended to the extent determined by the Agent (acting reasonably and in consultation with the Borrower) to be necessary to reflect the change in currency and to put the Lenders and the Borrower in the same position, so far as possible, that they would have been in if no change in such Committed Currency had occurred.
Substitution of Currency
 
45
 
 
SECTION 8.13.  .
License Agreement and CDS Data
 
(a)  The Agent hereby notifies the Borrower and the Lenders that it has entered into a licensing agreement (the ) with Markit, pursuant to which Markit will provide to the Agent for each Business Day a composite end of day credit default swap spread for the four (4) year credit default swap spread of the Borrower (the ) that the Agent will use to determine the Credit Default Swap Spread.  The Agent hereby further notifies the Borrower and the Lenders that, pursuant to the Licensing Agreement, (i) the CDS Data will be provided by Markit on an as is basis, without express or implied warranty as to accuracy, completeness, title, merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose, (ii) Markit has no liability to the Agent for any inaccuracies, errors or omissions in the CDS Data, except in the event of its gross negligence, fraud or willful misconduct, (iii) the CDS Data, as provided by Markit, constitutes confidential information (and each Lender agrees to treat such information in confidence to the same extent and in the same manner as such Bank is required to hold Confidential Information pursuant to Section 11.12 hereof), (iv) the CDS Data, as provided by Markit, may be used by the Agent, the Borrower and the Lenders solely for the purposes of this Agreement and (v) Markit and the Agent, except in each case in the event of its gross negligence, fraud or willful misconduct, shall have no liability whatsoever to either the Borrower or any Lender or any client of a Lender, whether in contract, in tort, under a warranty, under statute or otherwise, in respect of any loss or damage suffered by the Borrower , such Lender or cli ent as a result of or in connection with any opinions, recommendations, forecasts, judgments or any other conclusions, or any course of action determined, by such Lender or any client of such Lender based on the CDS Data.  Each of the Borrower and the Lenders (other than Citibank, N.A., in its capacity as the Agent, which is a party thereto) agrees that it shall not be a third party beneficiary of the Licensing Agreement and shall have no rights or obligations thereunder.
Licensing Agreement
CDS Data
 
(b)           The CDS Data shall be made available to the Borrower pursuant to procedures agreed upon by the Borrower and the Agent.  The Borrower agrees that it will use reasonable efforts (e.g., procedures substantially comparable to those applied by the Borrower in respect of non-public information as to the business of the Borrower) to keep confidential the CDS Data and the related materials provided by Markit pursuant to the Licensing Agreement to the extent that the same is not and does not become publicly available.
 
(c)           It is understood and agreed that in the event of a breach of confidentiality, damages may not be an adequate remedy and that the Licensing Agreement provides that Markit shall be entitled to injunctive relief to restrain any such breach, threatened or actual.
 
(d)           The Borrower acknowledges that each of the Agent and the Lenders from time to time may conduct business with and may be a shareholder of Markit and that each of the Agent and the Lenders may have from time to time the right to appoint one or more directors to the board of directors of Markit.
 
(e)           Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Agent hereby represents and warrants to the Borrower that the Agent has the express authority under the Licensing Agreement to provide the CDS Data and the related materials provided from time to time by Markit to the Borrower.
 
SECTION 8.14.  .  If any provision of this Agreement is held to be illegal, invalid or unenforceable, (a) the legality, validity and enforceability of the remaining provisions of this Agreement shall not be affected or impaired thereby and (b) the parties shall endeavor in good faith negotiations to replace the illegal, invalid or unenforceable provisions with valid provisions the economic effect of which comes as close as possible to that of the illegal, invalid or unenforceable provisions.  The invalidity of a provision in a particular jurisdiction shall not invalidate or render unenforceable such provision in any other jurisdiction.  Without limiting the foregoing provisions of this Section 8.14, if and to the extent that the enforceability of any provisions in this Agreement relating to Defaulting Lenders shall be limited by any debtor relief laws, then such provisions shall be deemed to be in effect only to the extent not so limited.
Severability
 
46 
 
 
SECTION 8.15.  .  Each of the Borrower, the Agent and the Lenders hereby irrevocably waives all right to trial by jury in any action, proceeding or counterclaim (whether based on contract, tort or otherwise) arising out of or relating to this Agreement or the Notes or the actions of the Agent or any Lender in the negotiation, administration, performance or enforcement thereof.
Waiver of Jury Trial
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be executed by their respective officers thereunto duly authorized, as of the date first above written.
 
AT&T INC.
By
/s/ Jonathan P. Klug
Title:  Senior Vice President and Treasurer
CITIBANK, N.A.,
as Agent
By
/s/ Carolyn Kee
Name:  Carolyn Kee
Title:  Vice President
Initial Lenders
By
/s/ Carolyn Kee
Name:  Carolyn Kee
47 
 
 
BNP PARIBAS
By
/s/ Nuala Marley
Name:  Nuala Marley
Title:  Managing Director
By
/s/ Gregory Paul
Name:  Gregory Paul
Title:  Managing Director
CREDIT SUISSE AG, CAYMAN ISLANDS BRANCH
By
/s/ Doreen Barr
Name:  Doreen Barr
Title:  Director
By
/s/ Vipul Dhadda
Name:  Vipul Dhadda
Title:  Associate
DEUTSCHE BANK AG NEW YORK BRANCH
By
/s/ Andreas Neumeier
Name:  Andreas Neumeier
Title:  Managing Director
By
/s/ Yvonne Tilden
Name:  Yvonne Tilden
Title:  Director
GOLDMAN SACHS BANK USA
By
/s/ Mark Walton
Name:  Mark Walton
Title:  Authorized Signatory
MORGAN STANLEY BANK, N.A.
By
/s/ Ryan Vetsch
Name:  Ryan Vetsch
Title:  Authorized Signatory
THE BANK OF TOKYO-MITSUBISHI UFJ, LTD.
By
/s/ Brian McNany
Name:  Brian McNany
Title:  Authorized Signatory
48 
 
 
THE ROYAL BANK OF SCOTLAND PLC
By
/s/ Matthew Pennachio
Name:  Matthew Pennachio
Title:  Vice President
UBS LOAN FINANCE LLC
By
/s/ Irja R. Otsa
Name:  Irja R. Otsa
Title:  Associate Director
By
/s/ April Varner-Nanton
Name:  April Varner-Nanton
Title:  Director
WELLS FARGO BANK, N.A.
By
/s/ Greg D. Campbell
Name:  Greg D. Campbell
Title: Director
INTESA SANPAOLO S.P.A. NEW YORK BRANCH
By
/s/ John Michalisin
Name:  John Michalisin
Title:  First Vice President
By
/s/ Franco Di Mario
Name:  Franco Di Mario
Title:  First Vice President & Credit Manager
MIZUHO CORPORATE BANK LIMITED
By
/s/ Bertram H. Tang
Name:  Bertram H. Tang
Title:  Authorized Signatory
THE NORTHERN TRUST COMPANY
By
/s/ Steven W. Ryan
Name:  Steven W. Ryan
Title:  Sr. Vice President
THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON
By
/s/ Thomas J. Tarasovich, Jr.
Name:  Thomas J. Tarasovich, Jr.
Title:  Vice President
49 
 
 
COMERICA BANK
By
/s/ Robert L. Nelson
Name:  Robert L. Nelson
Title:  Vice President
U.S. BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
By
/s/ Colleen McEvoy
Name:  Colleen McEvoy
Title:  Vice President
MANUFACTURERS AND TRADERS TRUST COMPANY
By
/s/ Erik Zeppuhar
Name:  Erik Zeppuhar
Title:  Assistant Vice President
STATE STREET BANK AND TRUST COMPANY
By
/s/ Juan G. Sierra
Name:  Juan G. Sierra
Title:  Vice President
50 
 
 
SCHEDULE I
AT&T INC.
FOUR YEAR CREDIT AGREEMENT
APPLICABLE LENDING OFFICES
 
 
3
 
 
 
SCHEDULE 5.02(a)
EXISTING LIENS
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NYDOCS02/767329
 
 
 
EXHIBIT A - FORM OF
NON-NEGOTIABLE PROMISSORY NOTE
 
 
 
FOR VALUE RECEIVED, the undersigned, AT&T INC., a Delaware corporation (the ), HEREBY PROMISES TO PAY to the order of _________________________ (the ) for the account of its Applicable Lending Office on the later of the Termination Date and the date designated pursuant to Section 2.05 of the Credit Agreement (each as defined in the Credit Agreement referred to below) the principal sum of U.S.$[amount of the Lenders Commitment in figures] or, if less, the aggregate principal amount of the Advances made by the Lender to the Borrower pursuant to the Four Year Credit Agreement dated as of December 6, 2010 among the Borrower, the Lender and certain other lende rs parties thereto, Citigroup Global Markets Inc., JPMorgan Securities LLC, Barclays Capital, the investment banking division of Barclays Bank PLC and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, as joint lead arrangers and joint bookrunners, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as syndication agent, Bank of America, N.A., Barclays Bank PLC and Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., as documentation agents, and Citibank, N.A., as Agent for the Lender and such other lenders (as amended or modified from time to time, the ; the terms defined therein being used herein as therein defined) outstanding on such date.
Borrower
Lender
Credit Agreement
 
The Borrower promises to pay interest on the unpaid principal amount of each Advance from the date of such Advance until such principal amount is paid in full, at such interest rates, and payable at such times, as are specified in the Credit Agreement.
 
Both principal and interest in respect of each Advance (i) in Dollars are payable in lawful money of the United States of America to the Agent at its account maintained at 388 Greenwich Street, New York, New York 10013, in same day funds and (ii) in any Committed Currency are payable in such currency at the applicable Payment Office in same day funds.  Each Advance owing to the Lender by the Borrower pursuant to the Credit Agreement, and all payments made on account of principal thereof, shall be recorded by the Lender and, prior to any transfer hereof, endorsed on the grid attached hereto which is part of this Promissory Note.
 
This Promissory Note is one of the Notes referred to in, and is entitled to the benefits of, the Credit Agreement.  The Credit Agreement, among other things, (i) provides for the making of Advances by the Lender to the Borrower from time to time in an aggregate amount not to exceed at any time outstanding the U.S. dollar amount first above mentioned, the indebtedness of the Borrower resulting from each such Advance being evidenced by this Promissory Note, (ii) contains provisions for determining the Dollar Equivalent of Advances denominated in Committed Currencies and (iii) contains provisions for acceleration of the maturity hereof upon the happening of certain stated events and also for prepayments on account of principal hereof prior to the maturity hereof upon the terms and conditions therein specified.
 
AT&T INC.
 
By __________________________
Title:
NYDOCS02/767329
 
 
 
ADVANCES AND PAYMENTS OF PRINCIPAL
2 
 
 
EXHIBIT B - FORM OF NOTICE OF
 BORROWING
Citibank, N.A., as Agent
  for the Lenders parties
  to the Credit Agreement
  referred to below
  1615 Brett Road, Building #3
  New Castle, Delaware 19720
[Date]
 
Attention: Bank Loan Syndications Department
 
Ladies and Gentlemen:
 
The undersigned, AT&T Inc., refers to the Four Year Credit Agreement, dated as of December 6, 2010 (as amended or modified from time to time, the , the terms defined therein being used herein as therein defined), among the undersigned, certain Lenders parties thereto, Citigroup Global Markets Inc., JPMorgan Securities LLC, Barclays Capital, the investment banking division of Barclays Bank PLC and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, as joint lead arrangers and joint bookrunners, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as syndication agent, Bank of America, N.A., Barclays Bank PLC and Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., as documentation agents, and Citibank, N.A., as Agent for said Lenders, and hereby gives you notice, irrevocably, pursu ant to Section 2.02 of the Credit Agreement that the undersigned hereby requests a Borrowing under the Credit Agreement, and in that connection sets forth below the information relating to such Borrowing (the ) as required by Section 2.02(a) of the Credit Agreement:
Credit Agreement
Proposed Borrowing
 
(i)           The Business Day of the Proposed Borrowing is _______________, 20__.
 
(ii)           The Type of Advances comprising the Proposed Borrowing is [Base Rate Advances] [Eurocurrency Rate Advances].
 
(iii)           The aggregate amount of the Proposed Borrowing is [$_______________] [for a Borrowing in a Committed Currency.  List currency and amount of Borrowing].
 
(iv)           The proceeds of the Proposed Borrowing shall be funded to account maintained by the Borrower at __________ at its office at __________, Account No. __________.
 
[(v)           The initial Interest Period for each Eurocurrency Rate Advance made as part of the Proposed Borrowing is _____ month[s].]
 
The undersigned hereby certifies that the following statements are true on the date hereof, and will be true on the date of the Proposed Borrowing:
 
(A)           the representations and warranties contained in Section 4.01 of the Credit Agreement (except the representations set forth in the last sentence of subsection (e) thereof and in subsection (f)(i) thereof) are correct, before and after giving effect to the Proposed Borrowing and to the application of the proceeds therefrom, as though made on and as of such date; and
 
 
NYDOCS02/767329
 
 
 
(B)           no event has occurred and is continuing, or would result from such Proposed Borrowing or from the application of the proceeds therefrom, that constitutes a Default, and
 
(C)           the Proposed Borrowing is within any applicable debt limitations by the Board of Directors of the Borrower.
established
 
.
 
Very truly yours,
 
AT&T INC.
 
By __________________________
Title:
2 
 
 
EXHIBIT C - FORM OF
ASSIGNMENT AND ACCEPTANCE
 
Reference is made to the Four Year Credit Agreement dated as of December 6, 2010 (as amended or modified from time to time, the ) among AT&T Inc., a Delaware corporation (the ), the Lenders (as defined in the Credit Agreement), Citigroup Global Markets Inc., JPMorgan Securities LLC, Barclays Capital, the investment banking division of Barclays Bank PLC and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, as joint lead arrangers and joint bookrunners, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as syndication agent, Bank of America, N.A., Barclays Bank PLC and Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., as documentation agents, and Citibank, N.A., as agent for the Lenders (th e ).  Terms defined in the Credit Agreement are used herein with the same meaning.
Credit Agreement
Borrower
Agent
 
The Assignor and the Assignee referred to on Schedule I hereto agree as follows:
 
1.           The Assignor hereby sells and assigns to the Assignee, and the Assignee hereby purchases and assumes from the Assignor, an interest in and to the Assignors rights and obligations under the Credit Agreement as of the date hereof equal to the percentage interest specified on Schedule 1 hereto of all outstanding rights and obligations under the Credit Agreement.  After giving effect to such sale and assignment, the Assignees Commitment and the amount of the Advances owing to the Assignee will be as set forth on Schedule 1 hereto.
 
2.           The Assignor (i) represents and warrants that it is the legal and beneficial owner of the interest being assigned by it hereunder and that such interest is free and clear of any adverse claim; (ii) makes no representation or warranty and assumes no responsibility with respect to any statements, warranties or representations made in or in connection with the Credit Agreement or the execution, legality, validity, enforceability, genuineness, sufficiency or value of the Credit Agreement or any other instrument or document furnished pursuant thereto; (iii) makes no representation or warranty and assumes no responsibility with respect to the financial condition of the Borrower or the performance or observance by the Borrower of any of its obligations under t he Credit Agreement or any other instrument or document furnished pursuant thereto; and (iv) attaches the Note[, if any] held by the Assignor [and requests that the Agent exchange such Note for a new Note payable to the order of [the Assignee in an amount equal to the Commitment assumed by the Assignee pursuant hereto or new Notes payable to the order of the Assignee in an amount equal to the Commitment assumed by the Assignee pursuant hereto and] the Assignor in an amount equal to the Commitment retained by the Assignor under the Credit Agreement, [respectively,] as specified on Schedule 1 hereto.
 
3.           The Assignee (i) confirms that it has received a copy of the Credit Agreement, together with copies of the financial statements referred to in Section 4.01 thereof and such other documents and information as it has deemed appropriate to make its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Assignment and Acceptance; (ii) agrees that it will, independently and without reliance upon the Agent, the Assignor or any other Lender and based on such documents and information as it shall deem appropriate at the time, continue to make its own credit decisions in taking or not taking action under the Credit Agreement; (iii) confirms that it is an Eligible Assignee; (iv) appoints and authorizes the Agent to take such action as agent on its behalf a nd to exercise such powers and discretion under the Credit Agreement as are delegated to the Agent by the terms thereof, together with such powers and discretion as are reasonably incidental thereto; (v) agrees that it will perform in accordance with their terms all of the obligations that by the terms of the Credit Agreement are required to be performed by it as a Lender; and (vi) attaches any U.S. Internal Revenue Service forms required under Section 2.13 of the Credit Agreement.
NYDOCS02/767329
 
 
 
4.           Following the execution of this Assignment and Acceptance, it will be delivered to the Agent for acceptance and recording by the Agent.  The effective date for this Assignment and Acceptance (the ) shall be the date of acceptance hereof by the Agent, unless otherwise specified on Schedule 1 hereto.
Effective Date
 
5.           Upon such acceptance and recording by the Agent, as of the Effective Date, (i) the Assignee shall be a party to the Credit Agreement and, to the extent provided in this Assignment and Acceptance, have the rights and obligations of a Lender thereunder and (ii) the Assignor shall, to the extent provided in this Assignment and Acceptance, relinquish its rights and be released from its obligations under the Credit Agreement.
 
6.           Upon such acceptance and recording by the Agent, from and after the Effective Date, the Agent shall make all payments under the Credit Agreement and the Notes in respect of the interest assigned hereby (including, without limitation, all payments of principal, interest and commitment fees with respect thereto) to the Assignee.  The Assignor and Assignee shall make all appropriate adjustments in payments under the Credit Agreement and the Notes for periods prior to the Effective Date directly between themselves.
 
7.           This Assignment and Acceptance shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.
 
8.           This Assignment and Acceptance may be executed in any number of counterparts and by different parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original and all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement.  Delivery of an executed counterpart of Schedule 1 to this Assignment and Acceptance by telecopier shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Assignment and Acceptance.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Assignor and the Assignee have caused Schedule 1 to this Assignment and Acceptance to be executed by their officers thereunto duly authorized as of the date specified thereon.
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
[NAME OF ASSIGNOR], as Assignor
 
By __________________________
Title:
 
Dated:  _______________, 20__
 
[NAME OF ASSIGNEE], as Assignee
 
By __________________________
Title:
 
Dated:  _______________, 20__
 
Domestic Lending Office:
[Address]
 
Eurocurrency Lending Office:
[Address]
 
 
__________________________
 
3 
 
 
Accepted [and Approved]** this
__________ day of _______________, 20__
 
CITIBANK, N.A., as Agent
 
By_________________________________                                                      
   Title:
 
[Approved this __________ day
of _______________, 20__
 
AT&T INC.
 
By________________________________]*
   Title:
 
_________________________________
 
 
 
 
4 
 
 
EXHIBIT D - FORM OF
OPINION OF COUNSEL
FOR THE BORROWER
 
December __, 2010
 
To each of the Lenders parties
 to the Four Year Credit Agreement dated
 as of December 6, 2010
 among AT&T Inc.,
 said Lenders and Citibank, N.A.,
 as Agent for said Lenders, and
 to Citibank, N.A., as Agent
 
Ladies and Gentlemen:
 
Pursuant to Section 3.01(h)(iv) of the Credit Agreement, dated as of December 6, 2010 (the ), among AT&T Inc. (the ), the Lenders parties thereto and Citibank, N.A., as Agent for said Lenders, I am of the opinion that:
Credit Agreement
Borrower
 
1.           The Borrower is a corporation duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the State of Delaware.
 
2.           The Credit Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered, and constitutes a legal, valid and binding instrument enforceable against the Borrower in accordance with its terms (subject, as to enforcement of remedies, to applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent transfer, reorganization, moratorium or other similar laws of general applicability relating to or affecting creditors rights generally from time to time in effect and to general principles of equity).
 
3.           Neither the execution and delivery of the Credit Agreement or the issuance of the Notes, nor the consummation of any other of the transactions therein contemplated, nor the fulfillment of the terms thereof will conflict with, result in a breach of, or constitute a default under, the charter or bylaws of the Borrower or the terms of any indenture or other agreement or instrument known to me and to which the Borrower is a party or by which the Borrower is bound, or any applicable law, order or regulation known to me to be applicable to the Borrower of any court, regulatory body, administrative agency, governmental body or arbitrator having jurisdiction over the Borrower.
 
4.           No order, consent, authorization, approval, registration or qualification of or with any governmental agency or body having jurisdiction over the Borrower is required for the due execution, delivery and performance by the Borrower of the Credit Agreement and the Notes.
 
5.
 
The form and terms of the Notes have been duly authorized and established by all necessary corporate action, and, when executed and delivered, will constitute valid and legally binding obligations of the Borrower (subject, as to enforcement of remedies, to applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent transfer, reorganization, moratorium or other similar laws of general applicability relating to or affecting creditors rights generally from time to time in effect and to general principles of equity).
NYDOCS02/767329
 
 
 
6.
 
To the best of my knowledge, there is no pending or overtly threatened action, suit or proceedings against the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, as such term is defined in the Credit Agreement, before any court, governmental agency or arbitrator that purport to affect the legality, validity, binding effect or enforceability of the Credit Agreement or any of the Notes or the consummation of the transactions contemplated thereby or, if likely to have a materially adverse effect upon the financial condition or operations of the Borrower, that is not disclosed in a filing by the Borrower with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
In giving the foregoing opinion, I have assumed that at the time of any Borrowing and the execution of the Notes that any such Borrowing was in accordance with any applicable debt limitations established by the Board of Directors of the Borrower.  In addition, I have relied, as to certain matters of fact, upon certificates of responsible officers of the Borrower and public officials.
 
Very truly yours,
 
2
 
 
 
EXECUTION COPY
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
i
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ii
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Schedules
 
Schedule I - List of Applicable Lending Offices
 
Schedule 5.02(a) - Existing Liens
 
Exhibits
 
Exhibit A                    -       Form of Note
 
Exhibit B                    -       Form of Notice of Borrowing
 
Exhibit C                    -       Form of Assignment and Acceptance
 
Exhibit D                    -       Form of Opinion of Counsel for the Borrower
 
 
 
iii

 
 
AT&T INC., a Delaware corporation (the ), the banks, financial institutions and other institutional lenders (the ) listed on the signature pages hereof, CITIGROUP GLOBAL MARKETS INC., J.P. MORGAN SECURITIES LLC, BARCLAYS CAPITAL, the investment banking division of Barclays Bank PLC and MERRILL LYNCH, PIERCE, FENNER & SMITH INCORPORATED, as joint lead arrangers and joint bookrunners, JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, N.A., as syndication agent, BANK OF AMERICA N.A., BARCLAYS BANK PLC and DEUTSCHE BANK SECURITIES INC., as documentation agents, and CITIBANK, N.A. (), as agent (in such capacity, the ) for the Lenders (as hereinafter defined), agree as follows:
Borrower
Initial Lenders
Citibank
Agent
 
 
 
SECTION 1.01.  .  As used in this Agreement, the following terms shall have the following meanings (such meanings to be equally applicable to both the singular and plural forms of the terms defined):
Certain Defined Terms
 
 means an advance by a Lender to the Borrower as part of a Borrowing and refers to a Base Rate Advance or a Eurocurrency Rate Advance (each of which shall be a  of Advance).
Advance
Type
 
 means, as to any Person, any other Person that, directly or indirectly, controls, is controlled by or is under common control with such Person or is a director or officer of such Person.  For purposes of this definition, the term control (including the terms controlling, controlled by and under common control with) of a Person means the possession, direct or indirect, of the power to vote 5% or more of the Voting Stock of such Person or to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of such Person, whether through the ownership of Voting Stock, by contract or otherwise.
Affiliate
 
 means (a) in the case of Advances denominated in Dollars, the account of the Agent maintained by the Agent at Citibank at its office at 388 Greenwich Street, New York, New York 10013, Account No. 36852248, Attention:  Bank Loan Syndications, (b) in the case of Advances denominated in any Committed Currency, the account of the Agent designated in writing from time to time by the Agent to the Borrower and the Lenders for such purpose and (c) in any such case, such other account of the Agent as is designated in writing from time to time by the Agent to the Borrower and the Lenders for such purpose.
Agents Account
 
 means, with respect to each Lender, such Lenders Domestic Lending Office in the case of a Base Rate Advance and such Lenders Eurocurrency Lending Office in the case of a Eurocurrency Rate Advance.
Applicable Lending Office
 
 
 
 
 means (a) for Base Rate Advances, and (b) for Eurocurrency Rate Advances, as of any date, a percentage per annum equal to the Credit Default Swap Spread, but not less than the Credit Default Swap Spread Floor, nor more than the Credit Default Swap Spread Cap, determined by reference to the Public Debt Rating in effect on such date as set forth below:
Applicable Margin
at any date, a rate per annum equal to the Credit Default Swap Spread minus 1.00%, but not less than 0.00% per annum
 means, as of any date a percentage per annum determined by reference to the Public Debt Rating in effect on such date as set forth below:
Applicable Percentage
 means an assignment and acceptance entered into by a Lender and an Eligible Assignee, and accepted by the Agent, in substantially the form of Exhibit C hereto.
Assignment and Acceptance
 
 has the meaning specified in Section 2.18(c).
Assuming Lender
 
 has the meaning specified in Section 2.18(c).
Assumption Agreement
 
 means a fluctuating interest rate per annum in effect from time to time, which rate per annum shall at all times be equal to the highest of:
Base Rate
 
(a)           the rate of interest announced publicly by Citibank in New York, New York, from time to time, as Citibanks base rate;
 
(b)            of one percent per annum above the Federal Funds Rate; and
 
(c)           the British Bankers Association Interest Settlement Rate applicable to Dollars for a period of one month () plus 1.00% (for the avoidance of doubt, the One Month LIBOR for any day shall be based on the rate appearing on Reuters Screen LIBOR01 Page (or other commercially available source providing such quotations as designated by the Agent from time to time) at approximately 11:00 a.m. London time on such day).
One Month LIBOR
 
 means an Advance denominated in Dollars that bears interest as provided in Section 2.06(a)(i).
Base Rate Advance
 
2
 
 
 means a borrowing consisting of simultaneous Advances of the same Type made by each of the Lenders pursuant to Section 2.01.
Borrowing
 
 means, in respect of Advances denominated in Dollars, $10,000,000, in respect of Advances denominated in Sterling, 10,000,000 and, in respect of Advances denominated in Euros, 10,000,000.
Borrowing Minimum
 
 means, in respect of Advances denominated in Dollars, $1,000,000 in respect of Advances denominated in Sterling, 1,000,000 and, in respect of Advances denominated in Euros, 1,000,000.
Borrowing Multiple
 
 means a day of the year on which banks are not required or authorized by law to close in New York City and, if the applicable Business Day relates to any Eurocurrency Rate Advances, on which dealings are carried on in the London interbank market and banks are open for business in London or, in the case of an Advance denominated in Euro, on which the Trans-European Automated Real-Time Gross Settlement Express Transfer (TARGET) System is open.
Business Day
 
 means as to any Lender (a)  the Dollar amount set forth under the caption Commitments opposite such Lenders name on Schedule I hereto, (b) if such Lender has become a Lender hereunder pursuant to an Assumption Agreement, the Dollar amount set forth in such Assumption Agreement, or (c) if such Lender has entered into any Assignment and Acceptance, the Dollar amount set forth for such Lender in the Register maintained by the Agent pursuant to Section 8.06(d), as such amount may be reduced pursuant to Section 2.04.
Commitment
 
 means lawful currency of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and Euros.
Committed Currencies
 
 means information that the Borrower furnishes to the Agent or any Lender, but does not include any such information that is or becomes generally available to the public (other than as a result of a violation of this Agreement) or that is or becomes available to the Agent or such Lender from a source other than the Borrower that is not, to the best of the Agents or such Lenders knowledge, acting in violation of a contractual, legal or fiduciary obligation to the Borrower or its Affiliates.
Confidential Information
 
 has the meaning specified in Section 2.18(b).
Consenting Lender
 
 refers to the consolidation of accounts in accordance with GAAP.
Consolidated
 
 means, for any period, Consolidated Net Income for such period adjusted to exclude the effects of (a) gains or losses from discontinued operations, (b) any extraordinary or other non-recurring non-cash gains or losses (including non-cash restructuring charges), (c) accounting changes including any changes to Accounting Standards Codification 715 (or any subsequently adopted standards relating to pension and postretirement benefits) adopted by the Financial Accounting Standards Board after the date hereof (d) interest expense, (e) income tax expense or benefit, (f) depreciation, amortization and other non-cash charges (including actuarial gains or losses from pension and postretirement plans), (g) interest income, (h) equity income and l osses and (i) other non-operating income or expense.  For the purpose of calculating Consolidated EBITDA for any period, if during such period the Borrower or any Subsidiary shall have made a Material Acquisition or Material Disposition, Consolidated EBITDA for such period shall be calculated after giving pro forma effect to such Material Acquisition or Material Disposition as if such Material Acquisition or Material Disposition occurred on the first day of such period.   means any acquisition or series of related acquisitions that involves a consideration (including non-cash consideration) with a fair market value in excess of $10,000,000,000.   means any disposition of property or series of related dispositions of property that involves consideration (including non-cash consideratio n) with a fair market value in excess of $1,000,000,000.
Consolidated EBITDA
Material Acquisition
Material Disposition
 
3
 
 
 means, for any period, the net income of the Borrower and its Consolidated Subsidiaries, determined on a Consolidated basis for such period in accordance with GAAP.
Consolidated Net Income
 
,  and  each refers to a conversion of Advances of one Type into Advances of the other Type pursuant to Section 2.07 or 2.08.
Convert
Conversion
Converted
 
 means, at any time, for any Advance, the 30 day moving average one-year credit default swap mid-rate spread of the Borrower most recently set for such Advance.  The Credit Default Swap Spread will be (a) obtained by the Agent from Markit, (b) set for each Eurocurrency Rate Advance two Business Days prior to the first day of each Interest Period and (c) set for each Base Rate Advance on the last Business Day of each calendar quarter for the next succeeding calendar quarter.  If for any reason the Credit Default Swap Spread is not available from Markit or a successor thereof, the Credit Default Swap Spread shall be determined by the Agent by reference to the 30 day moving average credit default swap mid-rate spr ead of the Borrower most recently published by Bloomberg or another similar financial services company selected by the Agent and approved by the Borrower (which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed).  If for any reason the Credit Default Swap Spread cannot be determined pursuant to the forgoing procedures, the Borrower and the Lenders shall negotiate in good faith for a period of up to 30 days after the Credit Default Swap Spread becomes unavailable (such 30-day period, the ) to agree on an alternative method for establishing the Credit Default Swap Spread.  The Credit Default Swap Spread during the Negotiation Period shall be the spread most recently provided to the Agent by Markit.  If no such alternative method is agreed upon during the Negotiation Period, the Credit Default Swap Spread at any date of determination subsequent to the end of the Negotiation Period shall be the average of the Credit Default Swap Floor and the Credit Default Swap Cap as set forth in the definition of Applicable Margin.  Notwithstanding the foregoing (x) as of any date, the Credit Default Swap Spread shall in no event be less than the Credit Default Swap Floor as set forth in the definition of Applicable Margin or more than the Credit Default Swap Cap.
Credit Default Swap Spread
Negotiation Period
 
 of any Person means, without duplication, (a) all obligations of such Person for borrowed money or with respect to deposits or advances of any kind, (b) all obligations of such Person evidenced by bonds, debentures, notes or similar instruments and (c) all guarantees by such Person of Debt of others.
Debt
 
 of any Person means all items that, in accordance with GAAP, would be  classified as indebtedness on a Consolidated balance sheet of such Person.
Debt for Borrowed Money
 
 means any Event of Default or any event that would constitute an Event of Default but for the requirement that notice be given or time elapse or both.
Default
 
 means, subject to Section 2.19(d), at any time, any Lender that, at such time (a) has failed to perform any of its funding obligations hereunder, including in respect of its Advances, within two Business Days of the date required to be funded by it hereunder, (b) has notified the Borrower or the Agent that it does not intend to comply with its funding obligations or has made a public statement to that effect with respect to its funding obligations hereunder or generally under other agreements in which it commits to extend credit, (c) has failed, within three Business Days after written request by the Agent or the Borrower (based on its reasonable belief that such Lender may not fulfill its funding obligations hereunder), to confirm in a m anner reasonably satisfactory to the Agent that it will comply with its funding obligations hereunder, that such Lender shall cease to be a Defaulting Lender upon receipt of such confirmation by, in form and substance reasonably acceptable to, the Agent or the Borrower, or (d) has, or has a direct or indirect parent company that has, (I) become the subject of a proceeding under any debtor relief law, (ii) had a receiver, conservator, trustee, administrator, assignee for the benefit of creditors or similar Person charged with reorganization or liquidation of its business or a custodian appointed for it, or (iii) taken any action in furtherance of, or indicated its consent to, approval of or acquiescence in any such proceeding or appointment; (e) shall generally not pay its debts as those debts come due or shall admit in writing its inability to pay its debts or shall become insolvent;   that a Lender shall not be a Defaulting Lender solely by virtue of the control, ownership or acquisition of any equity interest in that Lender or any direct or indirect parent company thereof by a governmental authority, so long as such ownership interest does not result in or provide such Lender with immunity from the jurisdiction of courts within the United States or from the enforcement of judgments or writs of attachment on its assets or permit such Lender (or such governmental authority or instrumentality) to reject, repudiate, disavow or disaffirm any contracts or agreements made with such .
Defaulting Lender
provided
provided
Lender
 
4
 
 
 and the  sign each means lawful currency of the United States of America.
Dollars
$
 
 means, with respect to any Lender, the office of such Lender specified as its Domestic Lending Office opposite its name on Schedule I hereto or in the Assumption Agreement or the Assignment and Acceptance pursuant to which it became a Lender, or such other office of such Lender as such Lender may from time to time specify to the Borrower and the Agent.
Domestic Lending Office
 
 has the meaning specified in Section 3.01.
Effective Date
 
 means (i) a Lender; (ii) an Affiliate of a Lender; and (iii) any other Person approved by the Agent and, unless an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing at the time any assignment is effected in accordance with Section 8.06, the Borrower, such approvals not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed; , , that neither the Borrower nor an Affiliate of the Borrower shall qualify as an Eligible Assignee.
Eligible Assignee
provided
however
 
 in Dollars of any Committed Currency on any date means the equivalent in Dollars of such Committed Currency determined by using the quoted spot rate at which the Agents principal office in London offers to exchange Dollars for such Committed Currency in London at approximately 4:00 P.M. (London time) (unless otherwise indicated by the terms of this Agreement) on such date as is required pursuant to the terms of this Agreement, and the Equivalent in any Committed Currency of Dollars means the equivalent in such Committed Currency of Dollars determined by using the quoted spot rate at which the Agents principal office in London offers to exchange such Committed Currency for Dollars in London at approximately 4:00 P.M. ( London time) (unless otherwise indicated by the terms of this Agreement) on such date as is required pursuant to the terms of this Agreement.
Equivalent
 
 means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended from time to time, and the regulations promulgated and rulings issued thereunder.
ERISA
 
5
 
 
 means any Person that for purposes of Title IV of ERISA is a member of the Borrowers controlled group, or under common control with the Borrower, within the meaning of Section 414 of the Internal Revenue Code.
ERISA Affiliate
 
 means the lawful currency of the European Union as constituted by the Treaty of Rome which established the European Community, as such treaty may be amended from time to time and as referred to in the legislative measures of the European Council for the introduction of, changeover to or operation of a single or unified European currency.
Euro
 
 means, with respect to any Lender, the office of such Lender specified as its Eurocurrency Lending Office opposite its name on Schedule I hereto or in the Assumption Agreement or the Assignment and Acceptance pursuant to which it became a Lender (or, if no such office is specified, its Domestic Lending Office), or such other office of such Lender as such Lender may from time to time specify to the Borrower and the Agent.
Eurocurrency Lending Office
 
 has the meaning assigned to that term in Regulation D of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, as in effect from time to time.
Eurocurrency Liabilities
 
 means, for any Interest Period for each Eurocurrency Rate Advance comprising part of the same Borrowing, an interest rate per annum equal to the rate per annum obtained by dividing (a) the rate per annum (rounded upward to the nearest whole multiple of 1/16 of 1% per annum) appearing on Reuters Screen LIBOR01 Page (or any successor page) as the London interbank offered rate for deposits in Dollars or the applicable Committed Currency at approximately 11:00 A.M. (London time) two Business Days prior to the first day of such Interest Period for a term comparable to such Interest Period or, if for any reason such rate is not available, the average (rounded upward to the nearest whole multiple of 1/16 of 1% per annum, if such average is not such a multiple) of the rate per annum at which deposits in Dollars or the applicable Committed Currency are offered by the principal office of each of the Reference Banks in London, England to prime banks in the London interbank market at 11:00 A.M. (London time) two Business Days before the first day of such Interest Period in an amount substantially equal to such Reference Banks Eurocurrency Rate Advance comprising part of such Borrowing to be outstanding during such Interest Period and for a period equal to such Interest Period by (b) a percentage equal to 100% minus the Eurocurrency Rate Reserve Percentage for such Interest Period.  If the Reuters Screen LIBOR01 Page (or any successor page) is unavailable, the Eurocurrency Rate for any Interest Period for each Eurocurrency Rate Advance comprising part of the same Borrowing shall be determined by the Agent on the basis of applicable rates furnished to and received by the Agent from the Reference Banks two Business Days befo re the first day of such Interest Period, , , to the provisions of Section 2.07.
Eurocurrency Rate
subject
however
 
 means an Advance denominated in Dollars or a Committed Currency that bears interest as provided in Section 2.06(a)(ii).
Eurocurrency Rate Advance
 
 for any Interest Period for all Eurocurrency Rate Advances comprising part of the same Borrowing means the reserve percentage applicable two Business Days before the first day of such Interest Period under regulations issued from time to time by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (or any successor) for determining the maximum reserve requirement (including, without limitation, any emergency, supplemental or other marginal reserve requirement) for a member bank of the Federal Reserve System in New York City with respect to liabilities or assets consisting of or including Eurocurrency Liabilities (or with respect to any other category of liabilities that includes deposits by reference to which the i nterest rate on Eurocurrency Rate Advances is determined) having a term equal to such Interest Period.
Eurocurrency Rate Reserve Percentage
 
6
 
 
 has the meaning specified in Section 6.01.
Events of Default
 
 has the meaning specified in Section 2.18(b).
Extension Date
 
 means Sections 1471 though 1474 of the Internal Revenue Code, as in effect on the date hereof.
FATCA
 
 means, for any period, a fluctuating interest rate per annum equal for each day during such period to the weighted average of the rates on overnight Federal funds transactions with members of the Federal Reserve System arranged by Federal funds brokers, as published for such day (or, if such day is not a Business Day, for the next preceding Business Day) by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, or, if such rate is not so published for any day that is a Business Day, the average of the quotations for such day on such transactions received by the Agent from three Federal funds brokers of recognized standing selected by it.
Federal Funds Rate
 
 means Fitch, Inc.
Fitch
 
 has the meaning specified in Section 1.03.
GAAP
 
 means interest rate swap, cap or collar agreements, interest rate future or option contracts, currency swap agreements, currency future or option contracts and other similar agreements.
Hedge Agreements
 
 means the information memorandum dated November 5, 2010 used by the Agent in connection with the syndication of the Commitments.
Information Memorandum
 
 means, for each Eurocurrency Rate Advance comprising part of the same Borrowing, the period commencing on the date of such Eurocurrency Rate Advance or the date of the Conversion of any Base Rate Advance into such Eurocurrency Rate Advance and ending on the last day of the period selected by the Borrower pursuant to the provisions below and, thereafter, each subsequent period commencing on the last day of the immediately preceding Interest Period and ending on the last day of the period selected by the Borrower pursuant to the provisions below.  The duration of each such Interest Period shall be one, two, three or six months as the Borrower may, upon notice received by the Agent not later than 11:00 A.M. (New York City t ime) on the third Business Day prior to the first day of such Interest Period, select; , , that:
Interest Period
provided
however
 
(a)           the Borrower may not select any Interest Period that ends after any Termination Date or, if the Advances have been converted to a term loan pursuant to Section 2.05 prior to such selection, that ends after the Maturity Date;
 
(b)           Interest Periods commencing on the same date for Eurocurrency Rate Advances comprising part of the same Borrowing shall be of the same duration;
 
(c)           whenever the last day of any Interest Period would otherwise occur on a day other than a Business Day, the last day of such Interest Period shall be extended to occur on the next succeeding Business Day, , , that, if such extension would cause the last day of such Interest Period to occur in the next following calendar month, the last day of such Interest Period shall occur on the next preceding Business Day; and
provided
however
 
7
 
 
(d)           whenever the first day of any Interest Period occurs on a day of an initial calendar month for which there is no numerically corresponding day in the calendar month that succeeds such initial calendar month by the number of months equal to the number of months in such Interest Period, such Interest Period shall end on the last Business Day of such succeeding calendar month.
 
 means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time, and the regulations promulgated and rulings issued thereunder.
Internal Revenue Code
 
 means the Initial Lenders, each Assuming Lender that shall become a party hereto pursuant to Section 2.18 and each Person that shall become a party hereto pursuant to Section 8.06.
Lenders
 
 means any lien, security interest or other charge or encumbrance of any kind, or any other type of preferential arrangement, including, without limitation, the lien or retained security title of a conditional vendor.
Lien
 
 means Markit Group, Ltd. or any successor thereto.
Markit
 
 means any material adverse change in the business, condition (financial or otherwise), operations, performance, properties or prospects of the Borrower or the Borrower and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole.
Material Adverse Change
 
 means a material adverse effect on (a) the business, condition (financial or otherwise), operations, performance, properties or prospects of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole, (b) the rights and remedies of the Agent or any Lender under this Agreement or any Note or (c) the ability of the Borrower to perform its obligations under this Agreement or any Note.
Material Adverse Effect
 
 means the earlier of (a) the first anniversary of the Termination Date and (b) the date of termination in whole of the aggregate Commitments pursuant to Section 2.04 or 6.01.
Maturity Date
 
 means Moodys Investors Service, Inc.
Moodys
 
 means a single employer plan, as defined in Section 4001(a)(15) of ERISA, that (a) is maintained for employees of the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate and at least one Person other than the Borrower and the ERISA Affiliates or (b) was so maintained and in respect of which the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate could have liability under Section 4064 or 4069 of ERISA in the event such plan has been or were to be terminated.
Multiple Employer Plan
 
 means, at any date, with respect to the Borrower, the total assets appearing on the most recently prepared Consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as of the end of the most recent fiscal quarter of the Borrower for which such balance sheet is available, prepared in accordance with GAAP, less (a) all current liabilities as shown on such balance sheet and (b) the value (net of any applicable reserves), as shown on such balance sheet of (i) all trade names, trademarks, licenses, patents, copyrights and goodwill, (ii) organizational costs and (iii) deferred charges (other than prepaid items such as insurance, taxes, interest, commissions, rents and similar items and tangible assets being amortized).
Net Tangible Assets
 
8
 
 
 has the meaning specified in Section 2.18(b).
Non-Consenting Lender
 
 means a promissory note of the Borrower payable to the order of any Lender, delivered pursuant to a request made under Section 2.15 in substantially the form of Exhibit A hereto, evidencing the aggregate indebtedness of the Borrower to such Lender resulting from the Advances made by such Lender.
Note
 
 has the meaning specified in Section 2.02(a).
Notice of Borrowing
 
 means the Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001, Pub. L. 107-56, as it may be amended or otherwise modified from time to time.
Patriot Act
 
 means, for any Foreign Currency, such office of Citibank as shall be from time to time selected by the Agent and notified by the Agent to the Borrower and the Lenders.
Payment Office
 
 means the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (or any successor).
PBGC
 
 means such of the following as to which no enforcement, collection, execution, levy or foreclosure proceeding shall have been commenced:  (a) Liens for taxes, assessments and governmental charges or levies to the extent not required to be paid under Section 5.01(b) hereof; (b) Liens imposed by law, such as materialmens, mechanics, carriers, workmens and repairmens Liens and other similar Liens arising in the ordinary course of business securing obligations that are not overdue for a period of more than 30 days; (c) pledges or deposits to secure obligations under workers compensation laws or similar legislation or to secure public or statutory obligations; and (d) e asements, rights of way and other encumbrances on title to real property that do not render title to the property encumbered thereby unmarketable or materially adversely affect the use of such property for its present purposes.
Permitted Liens
 
 means an individual, partnership, corporation (including a business trust), joint stock company, trust, unincorporated association, joint venture, limited liability company or other entity, or a government or any political subdivision or agency thereof.
Person
 
 means a Single Employer Plan or a Multiple Employer Plan.
Plan
 
 means, as of any date, the rating that has been most recently announced by any of S&P, Moodys or Fitch, as the case may be, for any class of non-credit enhanced long-term senior unsecured debt issued by the Borrower or, if any such rating agency shall have issued more than one such rating, the lowest such rating issued by such rating agency.  For purposes of the foregoing, (a) if only one of S&P, Moodys and Fitch shall have in effect a Public Debt Rating, the Applicable Margin and the Applicable Percentage shall be determined by reference to the available rating; (b) if none of S&P, Moodys or Fitch shall have in effect a Public Debt Rating, the Applicable Margin and the Applicable Perc entage will be set in accordance with Level 3 under the definition of  or , as the case may be; (c) if the ratings established by S&P, Moodys and Fitch fall within different levels, the Applicable Margin and the Applicable Percentage shall be based upon the highest rating, unless the lowest of such ratings is more than one level below the highest of such ratings, in which case the Applicable Margin and the Applicable Percentage shall be based upon the rating that is one level above the lowest of such ratings; (d) if any rating established by S&P, Moodys or Fitch shall be changed, such change shall be effective as of the date on which such change is first announced publicly by the rating agency making such change; and (e) if S&P, Moodys or Fitch shall change the basis o n which ratings are established, each reference to the Public Debt Rating announced by S&P, Moodys or Fitch, as the case may be, shall refer to the then equivalent rating by S&P, Moodys or Fitch, as the case may be.
Public Debt Rating
Applicable Margin
Applicable Percentage
 
9
 
 
 means sales of accounts receivable of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries in connection with agreements for limited recourse or non-recourse sales by the Borrower or Subsidiary for cash, that (a) any such agreement is of a type and on terms customary for comparable transactions in the good faith judgment of the Board of Directors of the Borrower or Subsidiary and (b) such agreement does not create any interest in any asset other than accounts receivable (and property securing or otherwise supporting accounts receivable) and proceeds of the foregoing.
Receivables Securitization
provided
 
 means Citibank, Bank of America, N.A., Deutsche Bank AG New York Branch, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Barclays Bank PLC.
Reference Banks
 
 has the meaning specified in Section 8.06(d).
Register
 
 means, with respect to any Person, such Persons Affiliates and the partners, directors, officers, employees, agents and advisors of such Person and of such Persons Affiliates.
Related Parties
 
 means at any time Lenders owed at least a majority in interest of the then aggregate unpaid principal amount (based on the Equivalent in Dollars at such time) of the Advances owing to Lenders, or, if no such principal amount is then outstanding, Lenders having at least a majority in interest of the Commitments, that if any Lender shall be a Defaulting Lender at such time, there shall be excluded from the determination of Required Lenders at such time the Commitments of such Lender at such time.
Required Lenders
provided
 
 means Standard & Poors Financial Services LLC.
S&P
 
 means a single employer plan, as defined in Section 4001(a)(15) of ERISA, that (a) is maintained for employees of the Borrower or any  ERISA Affiliate and no Person other than the Borrower and the ERISA Affiliates or (b) was so maintained and in respect of which the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate could have liability under Section 4069 of ERISA in the event such plan has been or were to be terminated.
Single Employer Plan
 
 of any Person means any corporation, partnership, joint venture, limited liability company, trust or estate of which (or in which) more than 50% of (a) the issued and outstanding capital stock having ordinary voting power to elect a majority of the Board of Directors of such corporation (irrespective of whether at the time capital stock of any other class or classes of such corporation shall or might have voting power upon the occurrence of any contingency), (b) the interest in the capital or profits of such limited liability company, partnership or joint venture or (c) the beneficial interest in such trust or estate is at the time directly or indirectly owned or controlled by such Person, by such Person and one or more of its oth er Subsidiaries or by one or more of such Persons other Subsidiaries.
Subsidiary
 
 means the Termination Date on which all Advances outstanding on such date are converted into a term loan pursuant to Section 2.05.
Term Loan Conversion Date
 
10
 
 
 has the meaning specified in Section 2.05.
Term Loan Election
 
 means the earlier of (a) the date that is 364 days after the Effective Date, subject to the extension thereof pursuant to Section 2.18, and (b) the date of termination in whole of the Commitments pursuant to Section 2.04 or 6.01; , , that the Termination Date of any Lender that is a Non-Consenting Lender to any requested extension pursuant to Section 2.18 shall be the Termination Date in effect immediately prior to the applicable Extension Date for all purposes of this Agreement.
Termination Date
provided
however
 
 means capital stock issued by a corporation, or equivalent interests in any other Person, the holders of which are ordinarily, in the absence of contingencies, entitled to vote for the election of directors (or persons performing similar functions) of such Person, even if the right so to vote has been suspended by the happening of such a contingency.
Voting Stock
 
SECTION 1.02.  .  In this Agreement in the computation of periods of time from a specified date to a later specified date, the word from  means from and including and the words to and until each mean to but excluding.
Computation of Time Periods
 
SECTION 1.03.  .  All accounting terms not specifically defined herein shall be construed in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles consistent with those applied in the preparation of the financial statements referred to in Section 4.01(e) ().
Accounting Terms
GAAP
 
 
 
SECTION 2.01.  .  Each Lender severally agrees, on the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth, to make Advances to the Borrower from time to time on any Business Day during the period from the Effective Date until the Termination Date in an aggregate amount (based in respect of any Advances to be denominated in a Committed Currency by reference to the Equivalent thereof in Dollars determined on the date of delivery of the applicable Notice of Borrowing) not to exceed at any time outstanding such Lenders Commitment.  Each Borrowing shall be in an amount not less than the Borrowing Minimum or the Borrowing Multiple in excess thereof and shall consist of Advances of the same Type made on the same day by the Lenders ratabl y according to their respective Commitments.  Within the limits of each Lenders Commitment, the Borrower may borrow under this Section 2.01, prepay pursuant to Section 2.09 and reborrow under this Section 2.01.
The Advances
 
SECTION 2.02.  .  (a)  Each Borrowing shall be made on notice, given not later than (x) 11:00 A.M. (New York City time) on the third Business Day prior to the date of the proposed Borrowing in the case of a Borrowing consisting of Eurocurrency Rate Borrowing consisting of Eurocurrency Rate Advances denominated in Dollars, (y) 4:00 P.M. (London time) on the third Business Day prior to the date of the proposed Borrowing in the case of a Borrowing consisting of Eurocurrency Rate Advances denominated in any Committed Currency, or (z) 11:00 A.M. (New York City time) on the date of the proposed Borrowing in the case of a Borrowing consisting of Base Rate Advances, by the Borrower to the Agent, which shall give to each Lender prompt notice thereof by telecopier.  Each such notice of a Borrowing (a ) shall be by telephone, confirmed immediately in writing, or telecopier in substantially the form of Exhibit B hereto, specifying therein the requested (i) date of such Borrowing, (ii) Type of Advances comprising such Borrowing, (iii) aggregate amount of such Borrowing, and (iv) in the case of a Borrowing consisting of Eurocurrency Rate Advances, initial Interest Period and currency for each such Advance.  Each Lender shall, before 1:00 P.M. (New York City time) on the date of such Borrowing, in the case of a Borrowing consisting of Advances denominated in Dollars, and before 11:00 A.M. (London time) on the date of such Borrowing, in the case of a Borrowing consisting of Eurocurrency Rate Advances denominated in any Committed Currency, make available for the account of its Applicable Lending Office to the Agent at the applicable Agents Account, in same day funds, such Lenders ratable portion of such Borrowing.  After the Agents receipt of such funds and upon fulfillment of the applicable conditions set forth in Article III, the Agent will make such funds available to the Borrower at the Agents address referred to in Section 8.02 or at the applicable Payment Office, as the case may be.
Making the Advances
Notice of Borrowing
 
11
 
 
(b)           Anything in subsection (a) above to the contrary notwithstanding, (i) the Borrower may not select Eurocurrency Rate Advances for any Borrowing if the aggregate amount of such Borrowing is less than the Borrowing Minimum or if the obligation of the Lenders to make Eurocurrency Rate Advances shall then be suspended pursuant to Section 2.07 or 2.11 and (ii) the Eurocurrency Rate Advances may not be outstanding as part of more than 12 separate Borrowings.
 
(c)           Each Notice of Borrowing shall be irrevocable and binding on the Borrower.  In the case of any Borrowing that the related Notice of Borrowing specifies is to be comprised of Eurocurrency Rate Advances, the Borrower shall indemnify each Lender against any loss, cost or expense incurred by such Lender as a result of any failure to fulfill on or before the date specified in such Notice of Borrowing for such Borrowing the applicable conditions set forth in Article III, including, without limitation, any loss (excluding loss of anticipated profits), cost or expense incurred by reason of the liquidation or reemployment of deposits or other funds acquired by such Lender to fund the Advance to be made by such Lender as part of such Borrowing when such Advance, as a result of such failure, is not made on such date.
 
(d)           Unless the Agent shall have received notice from a Lender prior to the time of any Borrowing that such Lender will not make available to the Agent such Lenders ratable portion of such Borrowing, the Agent may assume that such Lender has made such portion available to the Agent on the date of such Borrowing in accordance with subsection (a) of this Section 2.02 and the Agent may, in reliance upon such assumption, make available to the Borrower on such date a corresponding amount.  If and to the extent that such Lender shall not have so made such ratable portion available to the Agent, such Lender and the Borrower severally agree to repay to the Agent forthwith on demand such corresponding amount together with interest thereon, for each day f rom the date such amount is made available to the Borrower until the date such amount is repaid to the Agent, at (i) in the case of the Borrower, the higher of (A) the interest rate applicable at the time to Advances comprising such Borrowing and (B) the cost of funds incurred by the Agent in respect of such amount and (ii) in the case of such Lender, (A) the Federal Funds Rate in the case of Advances denominated in Dollars or (B) the cost of funds incurred by the Agent in respect of such amount in the case of Advances denominated in Committed Currencies. If such Lender shall repay to the Agent such corresponding amount, such amount so repaid shall constitute such Lenders Advance as part of such Borrowing for purposes of this Agreement.
 
(e)           The failure of any Lender to make the Advance to be made by it as part of any Borrowing shall not relieve any other Lender of its obligation, if any, hereunder to make its Advance on the date of such Borrowing, but no Lender shall be responsible for the failure of any other Lender to make the Advance to be made by such other Lender on the date of any Borrowing.
 
SECTION 2.03.  .  (a)  .  The Borrower agrees to pay to the Agent for the account of each Lender a commitment fee on the amount of such Lenders unused Commitment then in effect from the Effective Date in the case of each Initial Lender and from the effective date specified in the Assumption Agreement or the Assignment and Acceptance pursuant to which it became a Lender in the case of each other Lender until the Termination Date at a rate per annum equal to the Applicable Percentage in effect from time to time, payable in arrears quarterly on the last day of each March, June, September and December, commencing March 31, 2011, and on the Termina tion Date; that no Defaulting Lender shall be entitled to receive any commitment fee in respect of its Commitment for any period during which that Lender is a Defaulting Lender (and the Borrower shall not be required to pay such fee that otherwise would have been required to have been paid to that Defaulting Lender).
Fees
Commitment Fee
provided
 
13
 
 
(b)           .  The Borrower shall pay to the Agent for its own account such fees as may from time to time be agreed between the Borrower and the Agent.
Agents Fees
 
SECTION 2.04.  .  The Borrower shall have the right, upon at least three Business Days notice to the Agent, to terminate in whole or permanently reduce ratably in part the unused portions of the respective Commitments of the Lenders, that each partial reduction shall be in the aggregate amount of $10,000,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof.
Optional Termination or Reduction of the Commitments
provided
 
SECTION 2.05.  .  The Borrower shall, subject to the next succeeding sentence, repay to the Agent for the ratable account of the Lenders on the Termination Date the aggregate principal amount of the Advances then outstanding.  The Borrower may, upon not less than 15 days notice to the Agent, elect (the ) to convert all of the Advances outstanding on the Termination Date in effect at such time into a term loan which the Borrower shall repay in full ratably to the Lenders on the Maturity Date; that the Term Loan Election may not be exercised unless (i) the applicable conditions in Article III are satisfied on the date of notice of the Term Loan Election and on the date on which the Term Loan Election is to be effected and (ii) the Borrower shall have paid to the Agent for the account of the Lenders a fee equal to 0.50% of the aggregate principal amount of the Advances so converted to term loans.  All Advances converted into a term loan pursuant to this Section 2.05 shall continue to constitute Advances except that the Borrower may not reborrow pursuant to Section 2.01 after all or any portion of such Advances have been prepaid pursuant to Section 2.09.
Repayment of Advances
Term Loan Election
provided
 
SECTION 2.06.  .  (a)  .  The Borrower shall pay interest on the unpaid principal amount of each Advance owing to each Lender from the date of such Advance until such principal amount shall be paid in full, at the following rates per annum:
Interest on Advances
Scheduled Interest
 
(i)           .  During such periods as such Advance is a Base Rate Advance, a rate per annum equal at all times to the sum of (x) the Base Rate in effect from time to time (y) the Applicable Margin in effect from time to time, payable in arrears quarterly on the last day of each March, June, September and December during such periods and on the date such Base Rate Advance shall be Converted or paid in full.
Base Rate Advances
plus
 
(ii)           .  During such periods as such Advance is a Eurocurrency Rate Advance, a rate per annum equal at all times during each Interest Period for such Advance to the sum of (x) the Eurocurrency Rate for such Interest Period for such Advance (y) the Applicable Margin in effect from time to time, payable in arrears on the last day of such Interest Period and, if such Interest Period has a duration of more than three months, on each day that occurs during such Interest Period every three months from the first day of such Interest Period and on the date such Eurocurrency Rate Advance shall be Conve rted or paid in full.
Eurocurrency Rate Advances
plus
 
(b)           .  Upon the occurrence and during the continuance of an Event of Default under Section 6.01(a) the Agent shall, and upon the occurrence and during the continuance of any other Event of Default, the Agent may, and upon the request of the Required Lenders shall, require the Borrower to pay interest () on (i) the unpaid principal amount of each Advance owing to each Lender, payable in arrears on the dates referred to in clause (a)(i) or (a)(ii) above, at a rate per annum equal at all times to 2% per annum above the rate per annum required to be paid on such Advance pursuant to clause (a)(i) or (a)(ii) above and (ii) to the fullest extent permitted by law, the amount of any interest, fee or other amount payable hereunder that is not paid when due, from the date such amount shall be due until such amount shall be paid in full, payable in arrears on the date such amount shall be paid in full and on demand, at a rate per annum equal at all times to 2% per annum above the rate per annum required to be paid on Base Rate Advances pursuant to clause (a)(i) above, , , that following acceleration of the Advances pursuant to Section 6.01, Default Interest shall accrue and be payable hereunder whether or not previously required by the Agent.
Default Interest
Default Interest
provided
however
 
13
 
 
SECTION 2.07.  .  (a)  Each Reference Bank agrees to furnish to the Agent timely information for the purpose of determining each Eurocurrency Rate.  If any one or more of the Reference Banks shall not furnish such timely information to the Agent for the purpose of determining any such interest rate, the Agent shall determine such interest rate on the basis of timely information furnished by the remaining Reference Banks.  The Agent shall give prompt notice to the Borrower and the Lenders of the applicable interest rate determined by the Agent for purposes of Section 2.06(a)(i) or (ii), and the rate, if any, furnished by each Reference Bank for the purpose of determining the interest rate un der Section 2.06(a)(ii).
Interest Rate Determination
 
(b)           If, with respect to any Eurocurrency Rate Advances, the Required Lenders notify the Agent that (i) they are unable to obtain matching deposits in the London inter-bank market at or about 11:00 A.M. (London time) on the second Business Day before the making of a Borrowing in sufficient amounts to fund their respective Advances as a part of such Borrowing during its Interest Period or (ii) the Eurocurrency Rate for any Interest Period for such Advances will not adequately reflect the cost to such Required Lenders of making, funding or maintaining their respective Eurocurrency Rate Advances for such Interest Period, the Agent shall forthwith so notify the Borrower and the Lenders, whereupon (A) the Borrower will, on the last day of the then existing Inter est Period therefor, (1) if such Eurocurrency Rate Advances are denominated in Dollars, either (x) prepay such Advances or (y) Convert such Advances into Base Rate Advances and (2) if such Eurocurrency Rate Advances are denominated in any Committed Currency, either (x) prepay such Advances or (y) exchange such Advances into an Equivalent amount of Dollars and Convert such Advances into Base Rate Advances and (B) the obligation of the Lenders to make, or to Convert Advances into, Eurocurrency Rate Advances shall be suspended until the Agent shall notify the Borrower and the Lenders that the circumstances causing such suspension no longer exist; that, if the circumstances set forth in clause (ii) above are applicable, the Borrower may elect, by notice to the Agent and the Lenders, to continue such Advances in such Committed Currency for Interest Periods of not longer than one month, which Advances shall thereafte r bear interest at a rate per annum equal to the Applicable Margin plus, for each Lender, the cost to such Lender (expressed as a rate per annum) of funding its Eurocurrency Rate Advances by whatever means it reasonably determines to be appropriate.  Each Lender shall certify its cost of funds for each Interest Period to the Agent and the Borrower as soon as practicable (but in any event not later than ten Business Days after the first day of such Interest Period).
provided
 
(c)           If the Borrower shall fail to select the duration of any Interest Period for any Eurocurrency Rate Advances in accordance with the provisions contained in the definition of Interest Period in Section 1.01, the Agent will forthwith so notify the Borrower and the Lenders and such Advances will automatically, on the last day of the then existing Interest Period therefor, (i) if such Eurocurrency Rate Advances are denominated in Dollars, Convert into Base Rate Advances and (ii) if such Eurocurrency Rate Advances are denominated in a Committed Currency, be exchanged for an Equivalent amount of Dollars and Convert into Base Rate Advances.
 
14
 
 
(d)           On the date on which the aggregate unpaid principal amount of Eurocurrency Rate Advances comprising any Borrowing shall be reduced, by payment or prepayment or otherwise, to less than the Borrowing Minimum, such Advances shall automatically (i) if such Eurocurrency Rate Advances are denominated in Dollars, Convert into Base Rate Advances and (ii) if such Eurocurrency Rate Advances are denominated in a Committed Currency, be exchanged for an Equivalent amount of Dollars and Convert into Base Rate Advances.
 
(e)           Upon the occurrence and during the continuance of any Event of Default, (i) each Eurocurrency Rate Advance will automatically, on the last day of the then existing Interest Period therefor, (A) if such Eurocurrency Rate Advances are denominated in Dollars, be Converted into Base Rate Advances and (B) if such Eurocurrency Rate Advances are denominated in any Committed Currency, be exchanged for an Equivalent amount of Dollars and be Converted into Base Rate Advances and (ii) the obligation of the Lenders to make, or to Convert Advances into, Eurocurrency Rate Advances shall be suspended.
 
(f)           If Reuters Screen LIBOR01 Page is unavailable and fewer than two Reference Banks furnish timely information to the Agent for determining the Eurocurrency Rate for any Eurocurrency Rate Advances,
 
(i)           the Agent shall forthwith notify the Borrower and the Lenders that the interest rate cannot be determined for such Eurocurrency Rate Advances,
 
(ii)           with respect to Eurocurrency Rate Advances, each such Advance will automatically, on the last day of the then existing Interest Period therefor, (A) if such Eurocurrency Rate Advance is denominated in Dollars, Convert into a Base Rate Advance and (B) if such Eurocurrency Rate Advance is denominated in any Committed Currency, be prepaid by the Borrower or be automatically exchanged for an Equivalent amount of Dollars and be Converted into a Base Rate Advance (or if such Advance is then a Base Rate Advance, will continue as a Base Rate Advance), and
 
(iii)           the obligation of the Lenders to make Eurocurrency Rate Advances or to Convert Advances into Eurocurrency Rate Advances shall be suspended until the Agent shall notify the Borrower and the Lenders that the circumstances causing such suspension no longer exist.
 
SECTION 2.08.  .  The Borrower may on any Business Day, upon notice given to the Agent not later than 11:00 A.M. (New York City time) on the third Business Day prior to the date of the proposed Conversion and subject to the provisions of Sections 2.07 and 2.11, Convert all Advances denominated in Dollars of one Type comprising the same Borrowing into Advances denominated in Dollars of the other Type; , , that any Conversion of Eurocurrency Rate Advances into Base Rate Advances shall be made only on the last day of an Interest Period for such Eurocurrency Rate Adva nces, any Conversion of Base Rate Advances into Eurocurrency Rate Advances shall be in an amount not less than the minimum amount specified in Section 2.02(b) and no Conversion of any Advances shall result in more separate Borrowings than permitted under Section 2.02(b).  Each such notice of a Conversion shall, within the restrictions specified above, specify (i) the date of such Conversion, (ii) the Dollar denominated Advances to be Converted, and (iii) if such Conversion is into Eurocurrency Rate Advances, the duration of the initial Interest Period for each such Advance.  Each notice of Conversion shall be irrevocable and binding on the Borrower.
Optional Conversion of Advances
provided
however
 
, , that (x) each partial prepayment shall be in an aggregate principal amount of the Borrowing Minimum or a Borrowing Multiple in excess thereof and (y) in the event of any such prepayment of a Eurocurrency Rate Advance, the Borrower shall be obligated to reimburse the Lenders in respect thereof pursuant to Section 8.04(c).
SECTION 2.09.  .  (a)  .  The Borrower may, upon notice at least two Business Days prior to the date of such prepayment, in the case of Eurocurrency Rate Advances, and not later than 11:00 A.M. (New York City time) on the date of such prepayment, in the case of Base Rate Advances, to the Agent stating the proposed date and aggregate principal amount of the prepayment, and if such notice is given the Borrower shall, prepay the outstanding principal amount of the Advances comprising part of the same Borrowing in whole or ratably in part, together with accrued interest to the date of such prepayment on the principal amount prepaid; < font style="DISPLAY: inline; TEXT-DECORATION: underline">provided
Prepayments of Advances
Optional
however
 
15
 
 
(b)           .  (i)  If, on any date, the Agent notifies the Borrower that, on any interest payment date, the sum of (A) the aggregate principal amount of all Advances denominated in Dollars then outstanding plus (B) the Equivalent in Dollars (determined on the third Business Day prior to such interest payment date) of the aggregate principal amount of all Advances denominated in Committed Currencies then outstanding exceeds 105% of the aggregate Commitments of the Lenders on such date, the Borrower shall, as soon as practicable and in any event within two Business Days after receipt of such notice, subject to the proviso to this sentence set forth below, prepay the outstanding principal amount of any Advances owing by the Borrower in an aggregate amount sufficient to reduce such sum to an amount not to exceed 100% of the aggregate Commitments of the Lenders on such date together with any interest accrued to the date of such prepayment on the aggregate principal amount of Advances prepaid; that if the aggregate principal amount of Base Rate Advances outstanding at the time of such required prepayment is less than the amount of such required prepayment, the portion of such required prepayment in excess of the aggregate principal amount of Base Rate Advances then outstanding shall be deferred until the last day of the next maturing Interest Period of the outstanding Eurocurrency Rate Advances, in an aggregate amount equal to the excess of such required prepayment.  The Agent shall give prompt notice of any prepayment required under this Section 2.09(b) to the Borrower and the Lenders, and shall provide prompt notice to the Borrower of any such notice of required prepayment received by it from any Lender.
Mandatory
provided
 
(ii)           Each prepayment made pursuant to this Section 2.09(b) shall be made together with any interest accrued to the date of such prepayment on the principal amounts prepaid and, in the case of any prepayment of a Eurocurrency Rate Advance on a date other than the last day of an Interest Period, any additional amounts which the Borrower shall be obligated to reimburse to the Lenders in respect thereof pursuant to Section 8.04(b).
 
(iii)           The Agent shall calculate on the date of each Notice of Borrowing and on each interest payment date the sum of (A) the aggregate principal amount of all Advances denominated in Dollars plus (B) the Equivalent in Dollars (determined on the third Business Day prior to such interest payment date) of the aggregate principal amount of all Eurocurrency Rate Advances denominated in Committed Currencies and shall give prompt notice (and in any event no later than thirty days) of any prepayment required under this Section 2.10(b) to the Borrower and the Lenders.  The Agent shall give prompt notice of any prepayment required under this Section 2.09(b) to the Borrower and the Lenders.
 
SECTION 2.10.  .  (a)  If, due to either (i) the introduction of or any change in or in the interpretation of any law or regulation or (ii) the compliance with any guideline or request from any central bank or other governmental authority including, without limitation, any agency of the European Union or similar monetary or multinational authority (whether or not having the force of law), there shall be any increase in the cost to any Lender of agreeing to make or making, funding or maintaining Eurocurrency Rate Advances (excluding for purposes of this Section 2.10 any  such increased costs resulting from (i) Taxes or Other Taxes (as to which Section 2.13 shall govern) and (ii) changes in the basis of taxat ion of overall net income or overall gross income by the United States or by the foreign jurisdiction or state under the laws of which such Lender is organized or has its Applicable Lending Office or any political subdivision thereof), then the Borrower shall from time to time, upon demand by such Lender (with a copy of such demand to the Agent), pay to the Agent for the account of such Lender additional amounts sufficient to compensate such Lender for such increased cost , , that before making any such demand, each Lender agrees to use reasonable efforts (consistent with its internal policy and legal and regulatory restrictions) to designate a different Applicable Lending Office if the making of such a designation would avoid the need for, or reduce the amount of, such increased cost and would not, in the reasonable judgment of such Lender, be otherwise disadvantag eous to such Lender.  A certificate as to the amount of such increased cost, submitted to the Borrower and the Agent by such Lender, shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes, absent manifest error.
Increased Costs
provided
however
 
16
 
 
(b)           If any Lender determines that compliance with any law or regulation or any guideline or request from any central bank or other governmental authority (whether or not having the force of law) affects or would affect the amount of capital required or expected to be maintained by such Lender or any corporation or other entity controlling such Lender and that the amount of such capital is increased by or based upon the existence of such Lenders commitment to lend hereunder and other commitments of this type, then, upon demand by such Lender (with a copy of such demand to the Agent), the Borrower shall pay to the Agent for the account of such Lender, from time to time as specified by such Lender, additional amounts sufficient to compensate such Lender or such corpo ration in the light of such circumstances, to the extent that such Lender reasonably determines such increase in capital to be allocable to the existence of such Lenders commitment to lend hereunder.  A certificate as to such amounts submitted to the Borrower and the Agent by such Lender shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes, absent manifest error.  For the avoidance of doubt, this Section 2.10(b) shall apply to all requests, rules, guidelines or directives concerning capital adequacy issued in connection with the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act and all requests, rules, guidelines or directives concerning capital adequacy promulgated by the Bank for International Settlements, the Basel Committee on Banking Regulations and Supervisory Practices (or any successor or similar authority) or the United States financial regulatory authorities, regardless of the date adopted, issued, promulgated or implemented.
 
(c)           If a Lender demands payment from the Borrower at any time pursuant to Section 2.10, then the Borrower may terminate such Lenders Commitment hereunder, that (i) no Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing at the time of such Commitment termination and (ii) the Lender has been paid all amounts then due to it under this Agreement.  In no event shall the termination of a Lenders Commitment in accordance with this Section impair or otherwise affect the obligation of the borrower to make the payments demanded by such Lender pursuant to this Section 2.10.
provided
 
SECTION 2.11.  .  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, if any Lender shall notify the Agent that the introduction of or any change in or in the interpretation of any law or regulation makes it unlawful, or any central bank or other governmental authority asserts that it is unlawful, for any Lender or its Eurocurrency Lending Office to perform its obligations hereunder to make Eurocurrency Rate Advances or to fund or maintain Eurocurrency Rate Advances hereunder (a) each Eurocurrency Rate Advance will automatically, upon such demand, (i) if such Eurocurrency Rate Advance is denominated in Dollars, be Converted into a Base Rate Advance and (ii) if such Eurocurrency Rate Advance is denominated in any Committed Curren cy, be exchanged into an Equivalent amount of Dollars and be Converted into a Base Rate Advance and (b) the obligation of the Lenders to make Eurocurrency Rate Advances or to Convert Advances into Eurocurrency Rate Advances shall be suspended until the Agent shall notify the Borrower and the Lenders that the circumstances causing such suspension no longer exist; , , that before making any such demand, each Lender agrees to use reasonable efforts (consistent with its internal policy and legal and regulatory restrictions) to designate a different Eurocurrency Lending Office if the making of such a designation would allow such Lender or its Eurocurrency Lending Office to continue to perform its obligations to make Eurocurrency Rate Advances or to continue to fund or maintain Eurocurrency Rate Advances and would not, in the judgment of such Lender, be otherwise disadvan tageous to such Lender.
Illegality
provided
however
 
17
 
 
SECTION 2.12.  .  (a)  The Borrower shall make each payment hereunder, without counterclaim or set-off, except with respect to principal of, interest on, and other amounts relating to, Advances denominated in a Committed Currency, not later than 11:00 A.M. (New York City time) on the day when due in Dollars to the Agent at the applicable Agents Account in same day funds.  The Borrower shall make each payment, without counterclaim or set-off hereunder with respect to principal of, interest on, and other amounts relating to, Advances denominated in a Committed Currency, not later than 11:00 A.M. (at the Payment Office for such Committed Currency) on the day when due in such Committed Cur rency to the Agent, by deposit of such funds to the applicable Agents Account in same day funds.  The Agent will promptly thereafter cause to be distributed like funds relating to the payment of principal or interest or commitment fees ratably (other than amounts payable pursuant to Section 2.10, 2.13 or 8.04(c)) to the Lenders for the account of their respective Applicable Lending Offices, and like funds relating to the payment of any other amount payable to any Lender to such Lender for the account of its Applicable Lending Office, in each case to be applied in accordance with the terms of this Agreement.  Upon any Assuming Lender becoming a Lender hereunder as a result of an extension of the Termination Date pursuant to Section 2.18, and upon the Agents receipt of such Lenders Assumption Agreement and recording of the information contained therein in the Register, from and after the applicable Extension Date, the Agent shall make all payments hereunder and und er any Notes issued in connection therewith in respect of the interest assumed thereby to the Assuming Lender.  Upon its acceptance of an Assignment and Acceptance and recording of the information contained therein in the Register pursuant to Section 8.06(c), from and after the effective date specified in such Assignment and Acceptance, the Agent shall make all payments hereunder and under the Notes in respect of the interest assigned thereby to the Lender assignee thereunder, and the parties to such Assignment and Acceptance shall make all appropriate adjustments in such payments for periods prior to such effective date directly between themselves.
Payments and Computations
 
(b)           All computations of interest based on the Base Rate shall be made by the Agent on the basis of a year of 365 or 366 days, as the case may be, and all computations of interest based on the Eurocurrency Rate or the Federal Funds Rate and of commitment fees shall be made by the Agent on the basis of a year of 360 days (or, in each case of Advances denominated in Committed Currencies where market practice differs, in accordance with market practice), in each case for the actual number of days (including the first day but excluding the last day) occurring in the period for which such interest or commitment fees are payable.  Each determination by the Agent of an interest rate hereunder shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes, absent manifest error.
 
(c)           Whenever any payment hereunder or under the Notes shall be stated to be due on a day other than a Business Day, such payment shall be made on the next succeeding Business Day, and such extension of time shall in such case be included in the computation of payment of interest or commitment fee, as the case may be; , , that, if such extension would cause payment of interest on or principal of Eurocurrency Rate Advances to be made in the next following calendar month, such payment shall be made on the next preceding Business Day.
provided
however
 
(d)           Unless the Agent shall have received notice from the Borrower prior to the date on which any payment is due to the Lenders hereunder that the Borrower will not make such payment in full, the Agent may assume that the Borrower has made such payment in full to the Agent on such date and the Agent may, in reliance upon such assumption, cause to be distributed to each Lender on such due date an amount equal to the amount then due such Lender.  If and to the extent the Borrower shall not have so made such payment in full to the Agent, each Lender shall repay to the Agent forthwith on demand such amount distributed to such Lender together with interest thereon, for each day from the date such amount is distributed to such Lender until the date such Lender repays such amount to the Agent, at (i) the Federal Funds Rate in the case of Advances denominated in Dollars or (ii) the cost of funds incurred by the Agent in respect of such amount in the case of Advances denominated in Committed Currencies.
 
18
 
 
(f)           To the extent that the Agent receives funds for application to the amounts owing by the Borrower under or in respect of this Agreement or any Note in currencies other than the currency or currencies required to enable the Agent to distribute funds to the Lenders in accordance with the terms of this Section 2.12, the Agent shall be entitled to convert or exchange such funds into Dollars or into a Committed Currency or from Dollars to a Committed Currency or from a Committed Currency to Dollars, as the case may be, to the extent necessary to enable the Agent to distribute such funds in accordance with the terms of this Section 2.12; that the Borrower and each of the Lenders hereby agree that the Agent shall not be liable or responsible for any loss, cost or expense suffered by the Borrower or such Lender as a result of any conversion or exchange of currencies affected pursuant to this Section 2.12(f) or as a result of the failure of the Agent to effect any such conversion or exchange; and that the Borrower agrees to indemnify the Agent and each Lender, and hold the Agent and each Lender harmless, for any and all losses, costs and expenses incurred by the Agent or any Lender for any conversion or exchange of currencies (or the failure to convert or exchange any currencies) in accordance with this Section 2.12(f).
provided
provided
further
 
SECTION 2.13.  .  (a)  Any and all payments by the Borrower to or for the account of any Lender or the Agent hereunder or under the Notes or any other documents to be delivered hereunder shall be made, in accordance with Section 2.12 or the applicable provisions of such other documents, free and clear of and without deduction for any and all present or future taxes, levies, imposts, deductions, charges or withholdings, and all liabilities with respect thereto, , in the case of each Lender and the Agent, taxes imposed on its overall net income, and franchise taxes imposed on it in lieu of net income taxes, by the jurisdiction under the laws of which such Lende r or the Agent (as the case may be) is organized or any political subdivision thereof and, in the case of each Lender, taxes imposed on its overall net income, and franchise taxes imposed on it in lieu of net income taxes, by the jurisdiction of such Lenders Applicable Lending Office or any political subdivision thereof (all such non-excluded taxes, levies, imposts, deductions, charges, withholdings and liabilities in respect of payments hereunder or under the Notes being hereinafter referred to as ).  If the Borrower shall be required by law to deduct any Taxes from or in respect of any sum payable hereunder or under any Note or any other documents to be delivered hereunder to any Lender or the Agent, (i) the sum payable shall be increased as may be necessary so that after making all required deductions (including deductions applicable to additional sums payable under this Section 2.13) such Lender or the Agent (as the case may be) receives an amount equal to the sum it would have received had no such deductions been made, (ii) the Borrower shall make such deductions and (iii) the Borrower shall pay the full amount deducted to the relevant taxation authority or other authority in accordance with applicable law.
Taxes
excluding
Taxes
 
(b)           In addition, the Borrower shall pay any present or future stamp or documentary taxes or any other excise or property taxes, charges or similar levies that arise from any payment made hereunder or under the Notes or any other documents to be delivered hereunder or from the execution, delivery or registration of, performing under, or otherwise with respect to, this Agreement or the Notes or any other documents to be delivered hereunder (hereinafter referred to as ).
Other Taxes
 
(c)           The Borrower shall indemnify each Lender and the Agent for and hold it harmless against the full amount of Taxes or Other Taxes (including, without limitation, taxes of any kind imposed or asserted by any jurisdiction on amounts payable under this Section 2.13) imposed on or paid by such Lender or the Agent (as the case may be) and any liability (including penalties, interest and expenses) arising therefrom or with respect thereto.  This indemnification shall be made within 30 days from the date such Lender or the Agent (as the case may be) makes written demand therefor.
 
19
 
 
(d)           Within 30 days after the date of any payment of Taxes, the Borrower shall furnish to the Agent, at its address referred to in Section 8.02, the original or a certified copy of a receipt evidencing such payment to the extent such a receipt is issued therefor, or other written proof of payment thereof that is reasonably satisfactory to the Agent.
 
(e)           (i) Each Lender organized under the laws of a jurisdiction outside the United States, on or prior to the date of its execution and delivery of this Agreement in the case of each Initial Lender and on the date of the Assumption Agreement or the Assignment and Acceptance pursuant to which it becomes a Lender in the case of each other Lender, and from time to time thereafter as reasonably requested in writing by the Borrower (but only so long as such Lender remains lawfully able to do so), shall provide each of the Agent and the Borrower with two original Internal Revenue Service forms W-8BEN or W-8ECI, as appropriate, or any successor or other form prescribed by the Internal Revenue Service, certifying that such Lender is exempt from or entitled to a reduced rate of United States withholding tax on payments pursuant to this Agreement or the Notes.  If the form provided by a Lender at the time such Lender first becomes a party to this Agreement indicates a United States interest withholding tax rate in excess of zero, withholding tax at such rate shall be considered excluded from Taxes unless and until such Lender provides the appropriate forms certifying that a lesser rate applies, whereupon withholding tax at such lesser rate only shall be considered excluded from Taxes for periods governed by such form; , , that, if at the date of the Assignment and Acceptance pursuant to which a Lender assignee becomes a party to this Agreement, the Lender assignor was entitled to payments under subsection (a) in respect of United States withholding tax with respect to interest paid at such date, then, to such extent, the t erm Taxes shall include (in addition to withholding taxes that may be imposed in the future or other amounts otherwise includable in Taxes) United States withholding tax, if any, applicable with respect to the Lender assignee on such date.  If any form or document referred to in this subsection (e) requires the disclosure of information, other than information necessary to compute the tax payable and information required on the date hereof by Internal Revenue Service form W-8BEN or W-8ECI, that the Lender reasonably considers to be confidential, the Lender shall give notice thereof to the Borrower and shall not be obligated to include in such form or document such confidential information.  For purposes of this subsection (e), the terms  and  shall have the meanings specified in Section  ;7701 of the Internal Revenue Code.
provided
however
United States
United States person
 
(ii)           If a payment made to a Lender hereunder would be subject to United States federal withholding tax imposed by FATCA if such Lender were to fail to comply with the applicable reporting requirements of FATCA (including those contained in Section 1471(b) or 1472(b) of the Internal Revenue Code, as applicable), such Lender shall deliver to the Borrower and the Agent, at the time or times prescribed by law and at such time or times reasonably requested by the Borrower or the Agent, such documentation prescribed by applicable law (including as prescribed by Section 1471(b)(3)(C)(i) of the Internal Revenue Code) and such additional documentation reasonably requested by the Borrower or the Agent as may be necessary for the Borrower or the Agent to comply with its obligations under FATCA, to determine that such Lender has complied with such Lenders obligations under FATCA or to determine the amount to deduct and withhold from such payment.
 
(f)           For any period with respect to which a Lender has failed to provide the Borrower with the appropriate form, certificate or other document described in Section 2.13(e) ( if such failure is due to a change in law, or in the interpretation or application thereof, occurring subsequent to the date on which a form, certificate or other document originally was required to be provided, or if such form, certificate or other document otherwise is not required under subsection (e) above), such Lender shall not be entitled to indemnification under Section 2.13(a) or (c) with respect to Taxes imposed by the United States by rea son of such failure; , , that should a Lender become subject to Taxes because of its failure to deliver a form, certificate or other document required hereunder, the Borrower shall take such steps as the Lender shall reasonably request, and at such Lenders expense, to assist the Lender to recover such Taxes.
other
than
provided
however
 
20
 
 
(g)           Any Lender claiming any additional amounts payable pursuant to this Section 2.13 agrees to use reasonable efforts (consistent with its internal policy and legal and regulatory restrictions) to change the jurisdiction of its Eurocurrency Lending Office if the making of such a change would avoid the need for, or reduce the amount of, any such additional amounts that may thereafter accrue and would not, in the reasonable judgment of such Lender, be otherwise disadvantageous to such Lender.
 
SECTION 2.14.  .  If any Lender shall obtain any payment (whether voluntary, involuntary, through the exercise of any right of set-off, or otherwise) on account of the Advances owing to it (other than pursuant to Section 2.10, 2.13 or 8.04(c)) in excess of its ratable share of payments on account of the Advances obtained by all the Lenders, such Lender shall forthwith purchase from the other Lenders such participations in the Advances owing to them as shall be necessary to cause such purchasing Lender to share the excess payment ratably with each of them; , , that if all or any po rtion of such excess payment is thereafter recovered from such purchasing Lender, such purchase from each Lender shall be rescinded and such Lender shall repay to the purchasing Lender the purchase price to the extent of such recovery together with an amount equal to such Lenders ratable share (according to the proportion of (i) the amount of such Lenders required repayment to (ii) the total amount so recovered from the purchasing Lender) of any interest or other amount paid or payable by the purchasing Lender in respect of the total amount so recovered.  The Borrower agrees that any Lender so purchasing a participation from another Lender pursuant to this Section 2.14 may, to the fullest extent permitted by law, exercise all its rights of payment with respect to such participation as fully as if such Lender were the direct creditor of the Borrower in the amount of such participation.
Sharing of Payments, Etc
provided
however
 
SECTION 2.15.  .  (a)  Each Lender shall maintain in accordance with its usual practice an account or accounts evidencing the indebtedness of the Borrower to such Lender resulting from each Advance owing to such Lender from time to time, including the amounts of principal and interest payable and paid to such Lender from time to time hereunder in respect of Advances.  The Borrower agrees that upon notice by any Lender to the Borrower (with a copy of such notice to the Agent) to the effect that a Note is required or appropriate in order for such Lender to evidence (whether for purposes of pledge, enforcement or otherwise) the Advances owing to, or to be made by, such Lender, the Borrower shall promptly execute and de liver to such Lender a Note payable to the order of such Lender in a principal amount up to the Commitment of such Lender.  Each Lender that receives a Note pursuant to this Section 2.15 agrees that, upon the earlier of the termination or expiration of this Agreement, such Lender will return such Note to the Borrower.
Evidence of Debt
 
(b)           The Register maintained by the Agent pursuant to Section 8.06(d) shall include a control account, and a subsidiary account for each Lender, in which accounts (taken together) shall be recorded (i) the date and amount of each Borrowing made hereunder, the Type of Advances comprising such Borrowing and, if appropriate, the Interest Period applicable thereto, (ii) the terms of each Assumption Agreement and each Assignment and Acceptance delivered to and accepted by it, (iii) the amount of any principal or interest due and payable or to become due and payable from the Borrower to each Lender hereunder and (iv) the amount of any sum received by the Agent from the Borrower hereunder and each Lenders share thereof.
 
21
 
 
(c)           Entries made in good faith by the Agent in the Register pursuant to subsection (b) above, and by each Lender in its account or accounts pursuant to subsection (a) above, shall be evidence of the amount of principal and interest due and payable or to become due and payable from the Borrower to, in the case of the Register, each Lender and, in the case of such account or accounts, such Lender, under this Agreement, absent manifest error; , , that the failure of the Agent or such Lender t o make an entry, or any finding that an entry is incorrect, in the Register or such account or accounts shall not limit or otherwise affect the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
prima
facie
provided
however
 
SECTION 2.16.  .  The proceeds of the Advances shall be available (and the Borrower agrees that it shall use such proceeds) solely for general corporate purposes of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries.
Use of Proceeds
 
SECTION 2.17.  .
[Reserved]
 
SECTION 2.18.  .  (a) At least 45 days but not more than 60 days prior to the Termination Date, the Borrower, by written notice to the Agent, may request an extension of the Termination Date in effect at such time by 364 days from its then scheduled expiration; , , that the Borrower shall not have made the Term Loan Election for Advances outstanding on such Termination Date prior to such time.  The Agent shall promptly notify each Lender of such request, and each Lender shall in turn, in its sole discretion, no later than 35 days prior to such Termination Date, notify th e Borrower and the Agent in writing as to whether such Lender will consent to such extension.  If any Lender shall fail to notify the Agent and the Borrower in writing of its consent to any such request for extension of the Termination Date at least 35 days prior to the Termination Date, such Lender shall be deemed to be a Non-Consenting Lender with respect to such request.  The Agent shall notify the Borrower not later than 30 days prior to the Termination Date of the decision of the Lenders regarding the Borrowers request for an extension of the Termination Date.
Extension of Termination Date
provided
however
 
(b)           If all the Lenders consent in writing to any such request in accordance with subsection (a) of this Section 2.18, the Termination Date in effect at such time shall, effective as at the Termination Date (the ), be extended for 364 days; that on each Extension Date the applicable conditions set forth in Section 3.02 shall be satisfied.  If less than all of the Lenders consent in writing to any such request in accordance with subsection (a) of this Section 2.18, the Termination Date in effect at such time shall, effective as at the applicable Extension Date and subject to subsection (d) of this S ection 2.18, be extended as to those Lenders that so consented (each a ) but shall not be extended as to any other Lender (each a ).  To the extent that the Termination Date is not extended as to any Lender pursuant to this Section 2.18 and the Commitment of such Lender is not assumed in accordance with subsection (c) of this Section 2.18 on or prior to the applicable Extension Date, the Commitment of such Non-Consenting Lender shall automatically terminate in whole on such unextended Termination Date without any further notice or other action by the Borrower, such Lender or any other Person; that such Non-Consenting Lenders rights under Sections 2.10, 2.13 and 8.04, and its obligations under Section 7.08, shall survive the Te rmination Date for such Lender as to matters occurring prior to such date.  It is understood and agreed that no Lender shall have any obligation whatsoever to agree to any request made by the Borrower for any requested extension of the Termination Date.
Extension Date
provided
Consenting Lender
Non-Consenting Lender
provided
 
(c)           If less than all of the Lenders consent to any such request pursuant to subsection (a) of this Section 2.18, the Agent shall promptly so notify the Consenting Lenders, and each Consenting Lender may, in its sole discretion, give written notice to the Agent not later than 25 days prior to the applicable anniversary of the Effective Date of the amount of the Non-Consenting Lenders Commitments for which it is willing to accept an assignment.  If the Consenting Lenders notify the Agent that they are willing to accept assignments of Commitments in an aggregate amount that exceeds the amount of the Commitments of the Non-Consenting Lenders, such Commitments shall be allocated among the Consenting Lenders willing to accept such assignments in such amounts a s are agreed between the Borrower and the Agent.  If after giving effect to the assignments of Commitments described above there remains any Commitments of Non-Consenting Lenders, the Borrower may arrange for one or more Consenting Lenders or Eligible Assignees (each, an ) to assume, effective as of the Extension Date, any Non-Consenting Lenders Commitment and all of the obligations of such Non-Consenting Lender under this Agreement thereafter arising, without recourse to or warranty by, or expense to, such Non-Consenting Lender; , , that the amount of the Commitment of any such Assuming Lender as a result of such substitution shall in no event be less than $10,000,000 unless the amount of the Commitment of such Non-Consenting Lender is less than $10,000,00 0, in which case such Assuming Lender shall assume all of such lesser amount; and that:
Assuming Lender
provided
however
provided
further
 
22
 
 
(i)           any such Consenting Lender or Assuming Lender shall have paid to such Non-Consenting Lender (A) the aggregate principal amount of, and any interest accrued and unpaid to the effective date of the assignment on, the outstanding Advances, if any, of such Non-Consenting Lender (B) any accrued but unpaid commitment fees owing to such Non-Consenting Lender as of the effective date of such assignment;
plus
 
(ii)           all additional costs reimbursements, expense reimbursements and indemnities payable to such Non-Consenting Lender, and all other accrued and unpaid amounts owing to such Non-Consenting Lender hereunder, as of the effective date of such assignment shall have been paid to such Non-Consenting Lender; and
 
(iii)           with respect to any such Assuming Lender, the applicable processing and recordation fee required under Section 8.6(a) for such assignment shall have been paid;
 
that such Non-Consenting Lenders rights under Sections 2.10, 2.13 and 8.04, and its obligations under Section 7.08, shall survive such substitution as to matters occurring prior to the date of substitution.  At least three Business Days prior to any Extension Date, (A) each such Assuming Lender, if any, shall have delivered to the Borrower and the Agent an Assumption Agreement, duly executed by such Assuming Lender, such Non-Consenting Lender, the Borrower and the Agent, (B) any such Consenting Lender shall have delivered confirmation in writing satisfactory to the Borrower and the Agent (each an ) as to the increase in the amount of its Commitment and (C) each Non-Consenting Lender being replaced pursuant to this Section 2.18 shall have delivered to the Agent any Note or Notes held by such Non-Consenting Lender.  Upon the payment or prepayment of all amounts referred to in clauses (i), (ii) and (iii) of the immediately preceding sentence, each such Consenting Lender or Assuming Lender, as of the Extension Date, will be substituted for such Non-Consenting Lender under this Agreement and shall be a Lender for all purposes of this Agreement, without any further acknowledgment by or the consent of the other Lenders, and the obligations of each such Non-Consenting Lender hereunder shall, by the provisions hereof, be released and discharged.
provided
further
Assumption Agr eement
 
(d)           If (after giving effect to any assignments or assumptions pursuant to subsection (c) of this Section 2.18) Lenders having Commitments equal to more than 50% of the Commitments in effect immediately prior to the Extension Date consent in writing to a requested extension (whether by execution or delivery of an Assumption Agreement or otherwise) not later than one Business Day prior to such Extension Date, the Agent shall so notify the Borrower, and, subject to the satisfaction of the conditions in Section 3.02, the Termination Date then in effect shall be extended for the additional 364 day period as described in subsection (a) of this Section 2.18, and all references in this Agreement, and in the Notes, if any, to the  shall, with respect to each Consenting Lender and each Assuming Lender for such Extension Date, refer to the Termination Date as so extended.  Promptly following each Extension Date, the Agent shall notify the Lenders (including, without limitation, each Assuming Lender) of the extension of the scheduled Termination Date in effect immediately prior thereto and shall thereupon record in the Register the relevant information with respect to each such Consenting Lender and each such Assuming Lender.
Termination Date
 
23
 
 
.  (a)   (i)  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement, any payment by the Borrower for the account of a Defaulting Lender under this Agreement other than any amounts representing principal or interest payable to such Defaulting Lender  (whether voluntary or mandatory, at maturity, pursuant to Article VI or otherwise) shall not be paid or distributed to such Defaulting Lender, but shall instead be retained by the Agent in a segregated non-interest bearing account until the earlier of the date the Defaulting Lender is no longer a Defaulting Lender or the termination of the Commitments and payment in full of all obligations of the Borrower hereunder and shall be a pplied at such time or times as may be determined by the Agent as follows:  , to the payment of any amounts owing by such Defaulting Lender to the Agent hereunder; as the Borrower may request (so long as no Default exists), to the funding of any Advance in respect of which that Defaulting Lender has failed to fund its portion thereof as required by this Agreement, as determined by the Agent or if no such funding has been requested, to be held by the Agent as cash collateral to fund future Advances by such Defaulting Lender; , to the payment of any amounts owing to the Lenders as a result of any judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction obtained by any Lender against such Defaulting Lender as a result of such Defaulting Lenders breach of its obligations under this Agreement; , so long as no Default exists, to the payment of any amounts owing to the Borrower as a result of any judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction obtained by such Borrower against such Defaulting Lender as a result of such Defaulting Lenders breach of its obligations under this Agreement; and , to such Defaulting Lender or as otherwise directed by a court of competent jurisdiction; that any amounts held as cash collateral for funding obligations of a Defaulting Lender shall be returned to such Defaulting Lender upon the termination of this Agreement and the satisfaction of such Defaulting Lenders obligations hereunder.  Any payments, prepayments or other amounts paid or payable to a Defaulting Lender that are applied (or held) to pay amounts owed by a Defaulting Lender or to post cash collateral pursuant to this S ection 2.19 shall be deemed paid to and redirected by such Defaulting Lender, and each Lender irrevocably consents hereto. (ii)  Any amount paid by the Borrower for the account of a Defaulting Lender representing principal or interest payable to such Defaulting Lender shall be paid to such Defaulting Lender in the same amounts and in the same manner as if such Defaulting Lender were a not a Defaulting Lender.
Section 2.19.  Defaulting Lenders
first
second,
third
fourth
fifth
provided
 
(b)           No Commitment of any Lender shall be increased or otherwise affected, and, except as otherwise expressly provided in this Section 2.19, performance by the Borrower of its obligations shall not be excused or otherwise modified as a result of the operation of this Section 2.19.  The rights and remedies against a Defaulting Lender under this Section 2.19 are in addition to any other rights and remedies which the Borrower, the Agent or any Lender may have against such Defaulting Lender.
 
(c)           If the Borrower and the Agent agree in writing in their reasonable determination that a Defaulting Lender should no longer be deemed to be a Defaulting Lender, the Agent will so notify the parties hereto, whereupon as of the effective date specified in such notice and subject to any conditions set forth therein (which may include arrangements with respect to any cash collateral), that Lender will, to the extent applicable, purchase that portion of outstanding Advances of the other Lenders or take such other actions as the Agent may determine to be necessary to cause the Advances to be funded and held on a pro rata basis by the Lenders in accordance with their pro rata share, whereupon such Lender will cease to be a Defaulting Lender; that no adjustments will be made retroactively with respect to fees accrued or payments made by or on behalf of the Borrower while that Lender was a Defaulting Lender; and , , that except to the extent otherwise expressly agreed by the affected parties, no change hereunder from Defaulting Lender to Lender will constitute a waiver or release of any claim of any party hereunder arising from such Lenders having been a Defaulting Lender.
provided
provided
further
 
24
 
 
 
 
SECTION 3.01.  .  Section 2.01 of this Agreement shall become effective on and as of the first date on or before January 21, 2011 (the ) on which the following conditions precedent have been satisfied:
Conditions Precedent to Effectiveness of Section 2.01
Effective Date
 
(a)           Except as disclosed in filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission prior to the date hereof, there shall have occurred no Material Adverse Change since December 31, 2009.
 
(b)           There shall exist no action, suit, investigation, litigation or proceeding affecting the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries pending or overtly threatened before any court, governmental agency or arbitrator that (i) could be reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect or (ii) purports to affect the legality, validity or enforceability of this Agreement or any Note or the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby.
 
(c)           Nothing shall have come to the attention of the Lenders during the course of their due diligence investigation to lead them to believe that the Information Memorandum was or has become misleading, incorrect or incomplete in any material respect; without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Lenders shall have been given such access to the management of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as they shall have requested.
 
(d)           All governmental and third party consents and approvals necessary in connection with the transactions contemplated hereby shall have been obtained (without the imposition of any conditions that are not acceptable to the Lenders) and shall remain in effect, and no law or regulation shall be applicable in the reasonable judgment of the Lenders that restrains, prevents or imposes materially adverse conditions upon the transactions contemplated hereby.
 
(e)           The Borrower shall have notified the Agent in writing as to the proposed Effective Date.
 
(f)           The Borrower shall have paid all accrued fees and expenses of the Agent and the Lenders (including the accrued fees and expenses of counsel to the Agent).
 
(g)           On the Effective Date, the following statements shall be true and the Agent shall have received for the account of each Lender a certificate signed by a duly authorized officer of the Borrower, dated the Effective Date, stating that:
 
(i)           The representations and warranties contained in Section 4.01 are correct on and as of the Effective Date, and
 
(ii)           No event has occurred and is continuing that constitutes a Default.
 
(h)           The Agent shall have received on or before the Effective Date the following, each dated the Effective Date, in form and substance satisfactory to the Agent and (except for the Notes) in sufficient copies for each Lender:
 
25
 
 
(i)           The Notes to the order of the Lenders to the extent requested by any Lender pursuant to Section 2.15.
 
(ii)           Certified copies of the resolutions of the Board of Directors of the Borrower approving this Agreement and the Notes, and of all documents evidencing other necessary corporate action and governmental approvals, if any, with respect to this Agreement and the Notes.
 
(iii)           A certificate of the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Borrower certifying the names and true signatures of the officers of the Borrower authorized to sign this Agreement and the Notes and the other documents to be delivered hereunder.
 
(iv)           A favorable opinion of the general counsel of the Borrower, substantially in the form of Exhibit D hereto and as to such other matters as any Lender through the Agent may reasonably request.
 
(v)           A favorable opinion of Shearman & Sterling LLP, counsel for the Agent, in form and substance satisfactory to the Agent.
 
(i)           The commitments under the Five Year Credit Agreement (the ) dated as of July 12, 2006 among the Borrower, the lenders party thereto and Citibank, N.A., as administrative agent, shall have been or shall simultaneously be terminated and all Debt, interest, fees and other amounts outstanding under the Existing Credit Agreement shall have been or shall simultaneously be prepaid in full, and each of the Lenders that is a party to the Existing Credit Agreement hereby waives, upon the execution of this Agreement, any requirement of prior notice relating to the termination of the commitments thereunder.
Existing Credit Agreement
 
SECTION 3.02.   .  The obligation of each Lender to make an Advance on the occasion of each Borrowing, the Term Loan Election and the extension of Commitments pursuant to Section 2.18 shall be subject to the conditions precedent that the Effective Date shall have occurred and on the date of such Borrowing, the Term Loan Election  or Extension Date the following statements shall be true (and each of the giving of the applicable Notice of Borrowing and the acceptance by the Borrower of the proceeds of such Borrowing and request for the Term Loan Election or the extension of Commitments pursuant to Section 2.18 shall constitute a representation and warranty by the Borrower that on the date of such Borrowing, the Term Loan Election or such Extension Date such statements are true):
Conditions Precedent to Each Borrowing, Term Loan Conversion Date
and Extension Date
 
(i)           the representations and warranties contained in Section 4.01 (except, in the case of each any Borrowing or the exercise of the Term Loan Election, the representations set forth in the last sentence of subsection (e) thereof and in subsection (f)(i) thereof) are correct on and as of such date, before and after giving effect to such Borrowing and to the application of the proceeds therefrom, the Term Loan Election or such Extension Date, as though made on and as of such date, and,
 
(ii)           no event has occurred and is continuing, or would result from such Borrowing, the Term Loan Election from such Extension Date or from the application of the proceeds therefrom, that constitutes a Default, and
or
 
(iii)           the Borrowing is within any applicable debt limitations by the Board of Directors of the Borrower;
established
 
26
 
 
and (b) the Agent shall have received such other approvals, opinions or documents as any Lender through the Agent may reasonably request related to clauses (a)(i) or (ii) of this Section.
 
SECTION 3.03.  .  For purposes of determining compliance with the conditions specified in Section 3.01, each Lender shall be deemed to have consented to, approved or accepted or to be satisfied with each document or other matter required thereunder to be consented to or approved by or acceptable or satisfactory to the Lenders unless an officer of the Agent responsible for the transactions contemplated by this Agreement shall have received notice from such Lender prior to the date that the Borrower, by notice to the Lenders, designates as the proposed Effective Date, specifying its objection thereto.  The Agent shall promptly notify the Lenders of the occurrence of the Effective Date.
Determinations Under Section 3.01
 
 
 
SECTION 4.01.  .  The Borrower represents and warrants as follows:
Representations and Warranties of the Borrower
 
(a)           The Borrower is a corporation duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the State of Delaware.
 
(b)           The execution, delivery and performance by the Borrower of this Agreement and the Notes to be delivered by it, and the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby, are within the Borrowers corporate powers, have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action, subject to any applicable debt limitations established by the Board of Directors of the Borrower, and do not contravene (i) the Borrowers charter or by-laws or (ii) law or any contractual restriction binding on or affecting the Borrower.
 
(c)           No authorization or approval or other action by, and no notice to or filing with, any governmental authority or regulatory body or any other third party is required for the due execution, delivery and performance by the Borrower of this Agreement or the Notes to be delivered by it.
 
(d)           This Agreement has been, and each of the Notes to be delivered by it when delivered hereunder will have been, duly executed and delivered by the Borrower.  This Agreement is, and each of the Notes when delivered hereunder will be, the legal, valid and binding obligation of the Borrower enforceable against the Borrower in accordance with their respective terms.
 
(e)           The Consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as at December 31, 2009, and the related Consolidated statements of income and cash flows of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries for the fiscal year then ended, accompanied by an opinion of Ernst & Young LLP, independent public accountants, and the Consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as at September 30, 2010, and the related Consolidated statements of income and cash flows of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries for the nine months then ended, duly certified by the chief financial officer of the Borrower, copies of which have been furnished to each Lender, fairly present in all material respects, subject, in the case of said balance sheet as at September 30, 2010, and said statements of income and cash flows for the nine months then ended, to year-end audit adjustments, the Consolidated financial condition of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as at such dates and the Consolidated results of the operations of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries for the periods ended on such dates, all in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles consistently applied.  Except as disclosed in filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission prior to the date hereof, since December 31, 2009, there has been no Material Adverse Change.
 
27
 
 
(f)           There is no pending or threatened action, suit, investigation, litigation or proceeding affecting the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries before any court, governmental agency or arbitrator that (i) is not disclosed in a filing by the Borrower with the Securities and Exchange Commission and could be reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect or (ii) purports to affect the legality, validity or enforceability of this Agreement or any Note or the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby.
 
(g)           The Borrower is not engaged in the business of extending credit for the purpose of purchasing or carrying margin stock (within the meaning of Regulation U issued by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System), and no proceeds of any Advance will be used to purchase or carry any margin stock or to extend credit to others for the purpose of purchasing or carrying any margin stock.  Following application of the proceeds of each Advance, not more than 25 percent of the value of the assets (either of the Borrower only or of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries on a Consolidated basis) that are subject to a restriction on sale, pledge, or disposal under this Agreement will be represented by margin stock (within the meaning of Regulation U issued by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System).
 
(h)           The Borrower is not an investment company, or a company controlled by an investment company, within the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended.
 
 
 
SECTION 5.01.  .  So long as any Advance shall remain unpaid or any Lender shall have any Commitment hereunder, the Borrower will:
Affirmative Covenants
 
(a)           .  Comply, and cause each of its Subsidiaries to comply, in all material respects, with all applicable laws, rules, regulations and orders, such compliance to include, without limitation, compliance with ERISA and the Patriot Act.
Compliance with Laws, Etc
 
(b)           .  Pay and discharge, and cause each of its Subsidiaries to pay and discharge, before the same shall become delinquent, (i) all taxes, assessments and governmental charges or levies imposed upon it or upon its property and (ii) all lawful claims that, if unpaid, might by law become a Lien upon its property; , , that neither the Borrower nor any of its Subsidiaries shall be required to pay or discharge any such tax, assessment, charge or claim that is being contested in good faith and by proper proceedings and as to whic h appropriate reserves are being maintained, unless and until any Lien resulting therefrom attaches to its property and becomes enforceable against its other creditors.
Payment of Taxes, Etc
provided
however
 
(c)           .  Maintain, and cause each of its Subsidiaries to maintain, insurance with responsible and reputable insurance companies or associations in such amounts and covering such risks as is usually carried by companies engaged in similar businesses and owning similar properties in the same general areas in which the Borrower or such Subsidiary operates; , , that the Borrower and its Subsidiaries may self-insure to the extent consistent with prudent business practice.
Maintenance of Insurance
provided
however
 
28
 
 
(d)           .  Preserve and maintain, and cause each of its Subsidiaries to preserve and maintain, its corporate existence, rights (charter and statutory) and franchises; , , that the Borrower and its Subsidiaries may consummate any merger or consolidation permitted under Section 5.02(b) and that neither the Borrower nor any of its Subsidiaries shall be required to preserve any right or franchise if the Board of Directors of the Borrower or such Subsidiary shall determine that the preservation thereof is no longer desirable in the conduct of the business of the Borrower or such Subsidiary, as the case may be, and that the loss thereof is not disadvantageous in any material respect to the Borrower or such Subsidiary.
Preservation of Corporate Existence, Etc
provided
however
provided
further
 
(e)           .  At any reasonable time and from time to time during normal business hours, permit the Agent or any of the Lenders or any agents or representatives thereof, to examine the records and books of account of, and visit the properties of, the Borrower and any of its Subsidiaries, and, upon execution of a confidentiality agreement, to discuss the affairs, finances and accounts of the Borrower and any of its Subsidiaries with any of the officers or directors of the Borrower and with their independent certified public accountants, , , that examination of the records and books of account of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries shall occur only at times when an Advance or Advances shall be outstanding.
Visitation Rights
provided
however
 
(f)           .  Keep, and cause each of its Subsidiaries to keep, proper books of record and account, in which full and correct entries shall be made of all financial transactions and the assets and business of the Borrower and each such Subsidiary in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in effect from time to time.
Keeping of Books
 
(g)           .  Maintain and preserve, and cause each of its Subsidiaries to maintain and preserve, all of its properties that are used or useful in the conduct of its business in good working order and condition, ordinary wear and tear excepted.
Maintenance of Properties, Etc
 
(h)           .  Furnish to the Lenders:
Reporting Requirements
 
(i)           as soon as available and in any event within 40 days after the end of each of the first three quarters of each fiscal year of the Borrower, the Consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as of the end of such quarter and Consolidated statements of income and cash flows of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries for the period commencing at the end of the previous fiscal year and ending with the end of such quarter, duly certified (subject to year-end audit adjustments) by the chief financial officer of the Borrower as having been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (it being understood that the certification provided by the chief financial officer in compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act is acceptable for this purpose ) and certificates of the chief financial officer of the Borrower as to compliance with the terms of this Agreement and setting forth in reasonable detail the calculations necessary to demonstrate compliance with Section 5.03, that in the event of any change since the date hereof in generally accepted accounting principles used in the preparation of such financial statements, the Borrower shall provide the financial information required for the determination of compliance with Section 5.03 based on GAAP in effect as of the date hereof;
provided
 
29
 
 
(ii)           as soon as available and in any event within 75 days after the end of each fiscal year of the Borrower, a copy of the annual report for such year for the Borrower containing the Consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as of the end of such fiscal year and Consolidated statements of income and cash flows of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries for such fiscal year, in each case accompanied by an opinion by Ernst & Young LLP or other independent public accountants of national standing to the effect that such Consolidated financial statements fairly present its financial condition and results of operations on a Consolidated basis in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles consistently applied and certificates of the chief fina ncial officer of the Borrower as to compliance with the terms of this Agreement and setting forth in reasonable detail the calculations necessary to demonstrate compliance with Section 5.03, that in the event of any change since the date hereof in generally accepted accounting principles used in the preparation of such financial statements, the Borrower shall provide the financial information required for the determination of compliance with Section 5.03 based on GAAP in effect as of the date hereof;
provided
 
(iii)           as soon as possible and in any event within five days after the occurrence of each Default continuing on the date of such statement, a statement of the chief financial officer of the Borrower setting forth details of such Default and the action that the Borrower has taken and proposes to take with respect thereto;
 
(iv)           if Advances are outstanding and if such are not available on the Internet at www.att.com, www.sec.gov or another website designated by the Borrower, promptly after the sending or filing thereof, copies of all reports that the Borrower sends to any of its securityholders, and copies of all reports and registration statements that the Borrower or any Subsidiary files with the Securities and Exchange Commission or any national securities exchange;
 
(v)           prompt notice of the commencement of all actions and proceedings before any court, governmental agency or arbitrator affecting the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries of the type described in Section 4.01(f); and
 
(vi)           such other information respecting the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries as any Lender through the Agent may from time to time reasonably request of a material nature that may reasonably relate to the condition (financial or otherwise), operations, properties or prospects of the Borrower or the Borrower and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole.
 
Reports and financial statements required to be furnished by the Borrower pursuant to clauses (i), (ii) and (iv) of this subsection (h) shall be deemed to have been furnished on the earlier of (A) the date on which such reports and financial statements are posted on the Internet at www.sec.gov or (B) the date on which the Borrower posts such reports, or reports containing such financial statements, on its website on the Internet at www.att.com or at such other website identified by the Borrower in a notice to the Agent and the Lenders and that is accessible by the Lenders without charge; that the Lenders shall be deemed to have received the information specified in clauses (i), (ii) and (iv) of this subsection (h) on the date (x) such information is posted at th e website of the Agent identified from time to time by the Agent to the Lenders and the Borrower and (y) such posting is notified to the Lenders (it being understood that the Borrower shall have satisfied the timing obligations imposed by those clauses as of the earliest date such information is posted on the Internet at www.sec.gov or the website referred to in clause (B) above).
provided
 
30
 
 
SECTION 5.02.  .  So long as any Advance shall remain unpaid or any Lender shall have any Commitment hereunder, the Borrower will not:
Negative Covenants
 
(a)           .  Create or suffer to exist, or permit any of its Subsidiaries to create or suffer to exist, any Lien on or with respect to any of its properties, whether now owned or hereafter acquired, or assign, or permit any of its Subsidiaries to assign, any right to receive income, other than:
Liens, Etc
 
(i)           Permitted Liens,
 
(ii)           purchase money Liens upon or in any real property or equipment acquired or held by the Borrower or any Subsidiary in the ordinary course of business to secure the purchase price of such property or equipment or to secure Debt incurred solely for the purpose of financing the acquisition of such property or equipment, or Liens existing on such property or equipment at the time of its acquisition (other than any such Liens created in contemplation of such acquisition that were not incurred to finance the acquisition of such property) or extensions, renewals or replacements of any of the foregoing for the same or a lesser amount, ,
provided
however< /font>, that no such Lien shall extend to or cover any properties of any character other than the real property or equipment being acquired, and no such extension, renewal or replacement shall extend to or cover any properties not theretofore subject to the Lien being extended, renewed or replaced,
 
(iii)           the Liens existing on the date hereof and described on Schedule 5.02(a) hereto,
 
(iv)           Liens on property of a Person existing at the time such Person is merged into or consolidated with the Borrower or any Subsidiary of the Borrower or becomes a Subsidiary of the Borrower; that such Liens were not created in contemplation of such merger, consolidation or acquisition and do not extend to any assets other than those of the Person so merged into or consolidated with the Borrower or such Subsidiary or acquired by the Borrower or such Subsidiary,
provided
 
(v)           Liens on accounts receivable (and in property securing or otherwise supporting such accounts receivable together with proceeds thereof) of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries in connection with a Receivables Securitization,
 
(vi)           Liens on assets of a Subsidiary that is a regulated telephone company (a ) that, pursuant to the public debt indenture(s) of such Telco, are created upon the merger or conveyance or sale of all or substantially all of the assets of such Telco,
Telco
 
(vii)           Liens on real property securing Debt and other obligations in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed $1,000,000,000 at any time outstanding,
 
(viii)           other Liens securing Debt and other obligations in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed at any time outstanding five percent of Consolidated Net Tangible Assets, and
 
31
 
 
(ix)           the replacement, extension or renewal of any Lien permitted by clause (iii) or (iv) above upon or in the same property theretofore subject thereto or the replacement, extension or renewal (without increase in the amount or change in any direct or contingent obligor) of the Debt secured thereby.
 
(b)           .  Merge or consolidate with or into, or, directly or indirectly, convey, transfer, lease or otherwise dispose of (whether in one transaction or in a series of transactions) all or substantially all of its assets (whether now owned or hereafter acquired) to, any Person.
Mergers, Etc
 
(c)           .  Make or permit, or permit any of its Subsidiaries to make or permit, any change in accounting policies or reporting practices, except as required or permitted by generally accepted accounting principles.
Accounting Changes
 
SECTION 5.03.  .  In the event the Borrower makes the Term Loan Election, the Borrower will maintain, from and after the Termination Date until the Maturity Date and as of the last day of each fiscal quarter, a ratio of Consolidated Debt for Borrowed Money to Consolidated EBITDA of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries for the four quarters then ended of not more than 3.0 to 1.
Financial Covenant
 
 
 
SECTION 6.01.  .  If any of the following events () shall occur and be continuing:
Events of Default
Events of Default
 
(a)           The Borrower shall fail to pay any principal of any Advance when the same becomes due and payable; or the Borrower shall fail to pay any interest on any Advance or to make any other payment of fees or other amounts payable under this Agreement or any Note within three Business Days after the same becomes due and payable; or
 
(b)           Any representation or warranty made by the Borrower herein or by the Borrower (or any of its officers) in connection with this Agreement shall prove to have been incorrect in any material respect when made; or
 
(c)           (i) The Borrower shall fail to perform or observe any term, covenant or agreement contained in Section 5.01(d), (e) or (h), 5.02 or 5.03, or (ii) the Borrower shall fail to perform or observe any other term, covenant or agreement contained in this Agreement on its part to be performed or observed if such failure shall remain unremedied for 10 days after written notice thereof shall have been given to the Borrower by the Agent or any Lender; or
 
(d)           The Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries shall fail to pay any principal of or premium or interest on any Debt that is outstanding in a principal or net amount of at least $400,000,000 in the aggregate (but excluding Debt outstanding hereunder) of the Borrower or such Subsidiary (as the case may be), when the same becomes due and payable (whether by scheduled maturity, required prepayment, acceleration, demand or otherwise), and such failure shall continue after the applicable grace period, if any, specified in the agreement or instrument relating to such Debt; or any other event shall occur or condition shall exist under any agreement or instrument relating to any such Debt and shall continue after the applicable grace period, if any, specified in such agreement or instrument, if the effect of such event or condition is to accelerate the maturity of such Debt; or any such Debt shall be declared to be due and payable, or required to be prepaid or redeemed (other than by a regularly scheduled required prepayment or redemption), purchased or defeased, or an offer to prepay, redeem, purchase or defease such Debt shall be required to be made, in each case prior to the stated maturity thereof; or
 
32
 
 
(e)           The Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries shall generally not pay its debts as such debts become due, or shall admit in writing its inability to pay its debts generally, or shall make a general assignment for the benefit of creditors; or any proceeding shall be instituted by or against the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries seeking to adjudicate it a bankrupt or insolvent, or seeking liquidation, winding up, reorganization, arrangement, adjustment, protection, relief, or composition of it or its debts under any law relating to bankruptcy, insolvency or reorganization or relief of debtors, or seeking the entry of an order for relief or the appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian or other similar official for it or for any substantial part of its property and, in the case of any such proceeding instituted against it (but not instituted by it), either such proceeding shall remain undismissed or unstayed for a period of 30 days, or any of the actions sought in such proceeding (including, without limitation, the entry of an order for relief against, or the appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian or other similar official for, it or for any substantial part of its property) shall occur; or the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries shall take any corporate action to authorize any of the actions set forth above in this subsection (e); or
 
(f)           Final and non-appealable judgments or orders for the payment of money in excess of $400,000,000 in the aggregate shall be rendered against the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries thirty days shall have passed since such judgment became final and non-appealable and enforcement proceedings shall have been commenced by any creditor upon such judgment or order; , , that any such judgment or order shall not be an Event of Default under this Section 6.01(f) if and for so long as (i) the amount of such judgment or order is covered by a valid and binding policy of insurance between the defendant and the insurer covering p ayment thereof and (ii) such insurer, which shall be rated at least A by A.M. Best Company, has been notified of, and has not disputed the claim made for payment of, the amount of such judgment or order; or
provided
however
 
(g)           (i) Any Person or two or more Persons acting in concert shall have acquired beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 of the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934), directly or indirectly, of Voting Stock of the Borrower (or other securities convertible into such Voting Stock) representing more than 50% of the combined voting power of all Voting Stock of the Borrower; or (ii) during any period of up to 24 consecutive months, commencing after the date of this Agreement, individuals who at the beginning of such 24-month period were directors of the Borrower shall cease for any reason (other than due to retirement, death or disability) to constitute a majority of the board of directors of the Borrower ( except to the extent that individuals who at the beginning of such 24-month period were replaced by individuals (x) elected by 66-2/3% of the remaining members of the board of directors of the Borrower or (y) nominated for election by a majority of the remaining members of the board of directors of the Borrower and thereafter elected as directors by the shareholders of the Borrower); or
 
(h)           The Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate shall fail to satisfy minimum funding requirements under Section 412 of the Code or Section 302 of ERISA to any Plan, or apply for a waiver of such requirements;
 
33
 
 
then, and in any such event, the Agent (i) shall at the request, or may with the consent, of the Required Lenders, by notice to the Borrower, declare the obligation of each Lender to make Advances to be terminated, whereupon the same shall forthwith terminate, and (ii) shall at the request, or may with the consent, of the Required Lenders, by notice to the Borrower, declare the Advances, all interest thereon and all other amounts payable under this Agreement to be forthwith due and payable, whereupon the Advances, all such interest and all such amounts shall become and be forthwith due and payable, without presentment, demand, protest or further notice of any kind, all of which are hereby expressly waived by the Borrower; , , that in the event of an actual or deemed entry of an order for relief with respect to the Borrower under the Federal Bankruptcy Code, (A) the obligation of each Lender to make Advances shall automatically be terminated and (B) the Advances, all such interest and all such amounts shall automatically become and be due and payable, without presentment, demand, protest or any notice of any kind, all of which are hereby expressly waived by the Borrower.
provided
however
 
 
 
SECTION 7.01.  .  Each Lender hereby irrevocably appoints Citibank, N.A. to act on its behalf as the Agent hereunder and under the Notes and authorizes the Agent to take such actions on its behalf and to exercise such powers as are delegated to the Agent by the terms hereof, together with such actions and powers as are reasonably incidental thereto.  The provisions of this Article are solely for the benefit of the Agent and the Lenders, and the Borrower shall have no rights as a third party beneficiary of any of such provisions.
Authorization and Authority
 
SECTION 7.02.  .  (a)  The Person serving as the Agent hereunder shall have the same rights and powers in its capacity as a Lender as any other Lender and may exercise the same as though it were not the Agent and the term Lender or Lenders shall, unless otherwise expressly indicated or unless the context otherwise requires, include the Person serving as the Agent hereunder in its individual capacity.  Such Person and its Affiliates may accept deposits from, lend money to, act as the financial advisor or in any other advisory capacity for and generally engage in any kind of business with the Borrower or any Subsidiary or other Affiliate thereof as if such Person were not the Agent hereun der and without any duty to account therefor to the Lenders.
Agent Individually
 
(b)           Each Lender understands that the Person serving as Agent, acting in its individual capacity, and its Affiliates (collectively, the ) are engaged in a wide range of financial services and businesses (including investment management, financing, securities trading, corporate and investment banking and research) (such services and businesses are collectively referred to in this Section 7.02 as ) and may engage in the Activities with or on behalf of the Borrower or its Affiliates.  Furthermore, the Agents Group may, in undertaking the Activities, engage in trading in fina ncial products or undertake other investment businesses for its own account or on behalf of others (including the Borrower and its Affiliates and including holding, for its own account or on behalf of others, equity, debt and similar positions in the Borrower or its Affiliates), including trading in or holding long, short or derivative positions in securities, loans or other financial products of one or more of the Borrower and its Affiliates.  Each Lender understands and agrees that in engaging in the Activities, the Agents Group may receive or otherwise obtain information concerning the Borrower and its Affiliates (including information concerning the ability of the Borrower to perform its obligations hereunder) which information may not be available to any of the Lenders that are not members of the Agents Group.  None of the Agent nor any member of the Agents Group shall have any duty to disclose to any Lender or use on behalf of the Lenders, and shall not be liabl e for the failure to so disclose or use, any information whatsoever about or derived from the Activities or otherwise (including any information concerning the business, prospects, operations, property, financial and other condition or creditworthiness of the Borrower) or to account for any revenue or profits obtained in connection with the Activities, except that the Agent shall deliver or otherwise make available to each Lender such documents as are expressly required by this Agreement to be transmitted by the Agent to the Lenders.
Agents Group
Activities
 
34
 
 
(c)           Each Lender further understands that there may be situations where members of the Agents Group or their respective customers (including the Borrower and its Affiliates) either now have or may in the future have interests or take actions that may conflict with the interests of any one or more of the Lenders (including the interests of the Lenders hereunder).  Each Lender agrees that no member of the Agents Group is or shall be required to restrict its activities as a result of the Person serving as Agent being a member of the Agents Group, and that each member of the Agents Group may undertake any Activities without further consultation with or notification to any Lender.  None of (i) this Agreement, (ii) the receipt by the Agents Group of information (including Confidential Information) concerning the Borrower or its Affiliates (including information concerning the ability of the Borrower to perform its obligations hereunder) nor (iii) any other matter shall give rise to any fiduciary, equitable or contractual duties (including without limitation any duty of trust or confidence) owing by the Agent or any member of the Agents Group to any Lender including any such duty that would prevent or restrict the Agents Group from acting on behalf of customers (including the Borrower or its Affiliates) or for its own account.
 
SECTION 7.03.  .  (a)  The Agents duties hereunder are solely ministerial and administrative in nature and the Agent shall not have any duties or obligations except those expressly set forth herein.  Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Agent shall not have any duty to take any discretionary action or exercise any discretionary powers, but shall be required to act or refrain from acting (and shall be fully protected in so acting or refraining from acting) upon the written direction of the Required Lenders (or such other number or percentage of the Lenders as shall be expressly provided for herein), that the Agent shall not be required to take any action that, in its opinion or the opinion of its counsel, may expose the Agent or any of its Affiliates to liability or that is contrary to this Agreement or applicable law.
Duties of Agent; Exculpatory Provisions
provided
 
(b)           The Agent shall not be liable for any action taken or not taken by it (i) with the consent or at the request of the Required Lenders (or such other number or percentage of the Lenders as shall be necessary, or as the Agent shall believe in good faith shall be necessary, under the circumstances as provided in Sections 8.01 or 6.01) or (ii) in the absence of its own gross negligence or willful misconduct.  The Agent shall be deemed not to have knowledge of any Default or the event or events that give or may give rise to any Default unless and until the Borrower or any Lender shall have given notice to the Agent describing such Default and such event or events.
 
(c)           Neither the Agent nor any member of the Agents Group shall be responsible for or have any duty to ascertain or inquire into (i) any statement, warranty, representation or other information made or supplied in or in connection with this Agreement or the Information Memorandum, (ii) the contents of any certificate, report or other document delivered hereunder or thereunder or in connection herewith or therewith or the adequacy, accuracy and/or completeness of the information contained therein, (iii) the performance or observance of any of the covenants, agreements or other terms or conditions set forth herein or therein or the occurrence of any Default, (iv) the validity, enforceability, effectiveness or genuineness of this Agreement or any o ther agreement, instrument or document or the perfection or priority of any Lien or security interest created or purported to be created hereby or (v) the satisfaction of any condition set forth in Article III or elsewhere herein, other than (but subject to the foregoing clause (ii)) to confirm receipt of items expressly required to be delivered to the Agent.
 
(d)           Nothing in this Agreement shall require the Agent or any of its Related Parties to carry out any know your customer or other checks in relation to any person on behalf of any Lender and each Lender confirms to the Agent that it is solely responsible for any such checks it is required to carry out and that it may not rely on any statement in relation to such checks made by the Agent or any of its Related Parties.
 
35
 
 
SECTION 7.04.  .  The Agent shall be entitled to rely upon, and shall not incur any liability for relying upon, any notice, request, certificate, consent, statement, instrument, document or other writing (including any electronic message, Internet or intranet website posting or other distribution) believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed, sent or otherwise authenticated by the proper Person.  The Agent also may rely upon any statement made to it orally or by telephone and believed by it to have been made by the proper Person, and shall not incur any liability for relying thereon.  In determining compliance with any condition hereunder to the making of an Advance that by its terms must be fulfilled to th e satisfaction of a Lender, the Agent may presume that such condition is satisfactory to such Lender unless an officer of the Agent responsible for the transactions contemplated hereby shall have received notice to the contrary from such Lender prior to the making of such Advance, and such Lender shall not have made available to the Agent such Lenders ratable portion of the applicable Borrowing.  The Agent may consult with legal counsel (who may be counsel for the Borrower), independent accountants and other experts selected by it, and shall not be liable for any action taken or not taken by it in accordance with the advice of any such counsel, accountants or experts.
Reliance by Agent
 
SECTION 7.05.  .  The Agent may perform any and all of its duties and exercise its rights and powers hereunder by or through any one or more sub-agents appointed by the Agent.  The Agent and any such sub-agent may perform any and all of its duties and exercise its rights and powers by or through their respective Related Parties.  Each such sub-agent and the Related Parties of the Agent and each such sub-agent shall be entitled to the benefits of all provisions of this Article VII and Section 8.04(as though such sub-agents were the Agent hereunder) as if set forth in full herein with respect thereto.
Delegation of Duties
 
 
SECTION 7.06.  .  (a) The Agent may at any time give notice of its resignation to the Lenders and the Borrower.  At any time when the Agent or its Affiliate is a Defaulting Lender, the Required Lenders may, and upon the request of the Borrower shall, remove the Agent by giving notice to the Agent.  Upon receipt or giving of any such notice of resignation, the Required Lenders shall have the right, in consultation with the Borrower, to appoint a successor, which shall be a bank with an office in New York, New York, or an Affiliate of any such bank with an office in New York, New York.  If no such successor shall have been so appointed by the Required Lenders and shall have accepted such appointment with in 30 days after the retiring Agent gives notice of its resignation (such 30-day period, the ), then the retiring Agent may on behalf of the Lenders, appoint a successor Agent meeting the qualifications set forth above.  In addition and without any obligation on the part of the retiring Agent to appoint, on behalf of the Lenders, a successor Agent, the retiring Agent may at any time upon or after the end of the Lender Appointment Period notify the Borrower and the Lenders that no qualifying Person has accepted appointment as successor Agent and the effective date of such retiring Agents resignation.  Upon the resignation effective date established in such notice and regardless of whether a successor Agent has been appointed and accepted such appointment, the retiring Agents resignation shall nonetheless become effective and (i) the retiring Agent shall be dischar ged from its duties and obligations as Agent hereunder and (ii) all payments, communications and determinations provided to be made by, to or through the Agent shall instead be made by or to each Lender directly, until such time as the Required Lenders appoint a successor Agent as provided for above in this paragraph.  Upon the acceptance of a successors appointment as Agent hereunder, such successor shall succeed to and become vested with all of the rights, powers, privileges and duties as Agent of the retiring (or retired) Agent, and the retiring Agent shall be discharged from all of its duties and obligations as Agent hereunder (if not already discharged therefrom as provided above in this paragraph).  The fees payable by the Borrower to a successor Agent shall be the same as those payable to its predecessor unless otherwise agreed between the Borrower and such successor.  After the retiring Agents resignation hereunder, the provisions of this Article and S ection 8.04 shall continue in effect for the benefit of such retiring Agent, its sub-agents and their respective Related Parties in respect of any actions taken or omitted to be taken by any of them while the retiring Agent was acting as Agent.
Resignation of Agent
Lender Appointment Period
 
36
 
 
SECTION 7.07.  .  (a)  Each Lender confirms to the Agent, each other Lender and each of their respective Related Parties that it (i) possesses (individually or through its Related Parties) such knowledge and experience in financial and business matters that it is capable, without reliance on the Agent, any other Lender or any of their respective Related Parties, of evaluating the merits and risks (including tax, legal, regulatory, credit, accounting and other financial matters) of (x) entering into this Agreement, (y) making Advances and other extensions of credit hereunder and (z) in taking or not taking actions hereunder and thereunder, (ii) is financially able to bear such risks and (iii) has determi ned that entering into this Agreement and making Advances and other extensions of credit hereunder is suitable and appropriate for it.
Non-Reliance on Agent and Other Lenders
 
(b)           Each Lender acknowledges that (i) it is solely responsible for making its own independent appraisal and investigation of all risks arising under or in connection with this Agreement, (ii) that it has, independently and without reliance upon the Agent, any other Lender or any of their respective Related Parties, made its own appraisal and investigation of all risks associated with, and its own credit analysis and decision to enter into, this Agreement based on such documents and information, as it has deemed appropriate and (iii) it will, independently and without reliance upon the Agent, any other Lender or any of their respective Related Parties, continue to be solely responsible for making its own appraisal and investigation of all risks arising under or in connect ion with, and its own credit analysis and decision to take or not take action under, this Agreement based on such documents and information as it shall from time to time deem appropriate, which may include, in each case:
 
(i)           the financial condition, status and capitalization of the Borrower;
(ii)           the legality, validity, effectiveness, adequacy or enforceability of this Agreement and any other agreement, arrangement or document entered into, made or executed in anticipation of, under or in connection with this Agreement;
(iii)           determining compliance or non-compliance with any condition hereunder to the making of an Advance and the form and substance of all evidence delivered in connection with establishing the satisfaction of each such condition;
(iv)           the adequacy, accuracy and/or completeness of the Information Memorandum and any other information delivered by the Agent, any other Lender or by any of their respective Related Parties under or in connection with this Agreement, the transactions contemplated hereby and thereby or any other agreement, arrangement or document entered into, made or executed in anticipation of, under or in connection with this Agreement.
SECTION 7.08.  .  The Lenders agree to indemnify the Agent (to the extent not reimbursed by the Borrower), ratably according to the respective principal amounts of the Advances then owed to each of them (or if no Advances are at the time outstanding, ratably according to the respective amounts of their Commitments), from and against any and all liabilities, obligations, losses, damages, penalties, actions, judgments, suits, costs, expenses or disbursements of any kind or nature whatsoever that may be imposed on, incurred by, or asserted against the Agent in any way relating to or arising out of this Agreement or any action taken or omitted by the Agent under this Agreement (collectively, the ), that no Lender shall be liable for any portion of the Indemnified Costs resulting from the Agents gross negligence or willful misconduct.  Without limitation of the foregoing, each Lender agrees to reimburse the Agent promptly upon demand for its ratable share of any out-of-pocket expenses (including reasonable counsel fees) incurred by the Agent in connection with the preparation, execution, delivery, administration, modification, amendment or enforcement (whether through negotiations, legal proceedings or otherwise) of, or legal advice in respect of rights or responsibilities under, this Agreement, to the extent that the Agent is not reimbursed for such expenses by the Borrower.  In the case of any investigation, litigation or proceeding giving rise to any Indemnified Costs, this Section 7.08 applies whether any such investigation, litigation or pro ceeding is brought by the Agent, any Lender or a third party.
Indemnification
Indemnified Costs
provided
 
37
 
 
SECTION 7.09.    Each Lender hereby acknowledges that neither the syndication agent, the documentation agents nor any other Lender designated as any Agent on the signature pages hereof (other than the Agent) has any liability hereunder other than in its capacity as a Lender.
Other Agents.
 
 
 
SECTION 8.01.  .  No amendment or waiver of any provision of this Agreement or the Notes, nor consent to any departure by the Borrower therefrom, shall in any event be effective unless the same shall be in writing and signed by the Required Lenders, and then such waiver or consent shall be effective only in the specific instance and for the specific purpose for which given; , , that no amendment, waiver or consent shall, unless in writing and signed by all the Lenders, do any of the following:  (a) waive any of the conditions specified in Section 3.01, (b) increase or, subject to Section 2.18, extend the Commitments of the Lenders, (c) reduce the principal of, or rate of interest on, the Advances or any fees or other amounts payable hereunder, (d) postpone any date fixed for any payment of principal of, or interest on, the Advances or any fees or other amounts payable hereunder, (e) change the percentage of the Commitments or of the aggregate unpaid principal amount of the Advances, or the number of Lenders, that shall be required for the Lenders or any of them to take any action hereunder, (f) add any currencies to the definition of Committed Currencies or (g) amend this Section 8.01; and that no amendment, waiver or consent shall, unless in writing and signed by the Agent in addition to the Lenders required above to take such action, affect the rights or duties of the Agent under this Agreement or any Note.
Amendments, Etc
provided
however
provided
further
 
SECTION 8.02.  .  (a)  All notices and other communications provided for hereunder shall be either (x) in writing (including telecopier communication) and mailed, telecopied or delivered or (y) as and to the extent set forth in Section 8.02(b), if to the Borrower, at its address at 208 S. Akard Street, 27th Floor, Dallas, Texas  75202, Attention:  Assistant Treasurer; if to any Initial Lender, at its Domestic Lending Office specified opposite its name on Schedule I hereto; if to any other Lender, at its Domestic Lending Office specified in the Assumption Agreement or the Assignment and Acceptance pursuant to which it became a Lender; and if to the Agent, at its address at 1615 Brett Road, Building #3, New Castle, Delaware 19720, Attention: Bank Loan Syndications Department; or, as to the Borrower or the Agent, at such other address as shall be designated by such party in a written notice to the other parties and, as to each other party, at such other address as shall be designated by such party in a written notice to the Borrower and the Agent.  All such notices and communications shall be effective when received.  Delivery by telecopier of an executed counterpart of any amendment or waiver of any provision of this Agreement or the Notes or of any Exhibit hereto to be executed and delivered hereunder shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart thereof.
Notices, Etc
 
(b)           So long as Citibank or any of its Affiliates is the Agent, such materials as the Borrower and the Agent shall agree shall be delivered to the Agent in an electronic medium in a format acceptable to the Agent and the Lenders by e-mail at oploanswebadmin@citigroup.com.  With the Borrowers prior consent, the Agent may make such materials, as well as any other written information, documents, instruments and other material relating to the Borrower, any of its Subsidiaries or any other materials, notices, requests or matters relating to this Agreement, the Notes or any of the transactions contemplated hereby (collectively, the ) available to the Lenders by posting such notices on Intralinks or a substantially similar electronic system (the ); , , that the Borrowers prior consent is not required in the event such information is publicly available.  The Borrower acknowledges that (i) the distribution of material through an electronic medium is not necessarily secure and that there are confidentiality and other risks associated with such distribution, (ii) the Platform and the Communications are provided as is and as available and (iii) neither the Agent nor any of its Affiliates warrants the accuracy, adequacy or completeness of the Communications or the Platform and each expressly disclaims liability for errors or omissions in the Communications or the Platform.  No warranty of any kind, express, implied or statutory, including, without limitation, any warranty of merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose, non-infringement of third party rights or freedom from viruses or other code defects, is made by the Agent or any of its Affiliates in connection with the Platform.
Communications
Platform
provided
however
 
38
 
 
(c)           Each Lender agrees that notice to it (as provided in the next sentence) (a ) specifying that any Communications have been posted to the Platform shall constitute effective delivery of such information, documents or other materials to such Lender for purposes of this Agreement; that if requested by any Lender the Agent shall deliver a copy of the Communications to such Lender by email or telecopier.  Each Lender agrees (i) to notify the Agent in writing of such Lenders e-mail address to which a Notice may be sent by electronic transmission (including by electronic communication) on or before the date such Lender becomes a party to this Agreement (and from time to time thereafter to ensure that the Agent has on record an effective e-mail address for such Lender) and (ii) that any Notice may be sent to such e-mail address.
Notice
provided
 
SECTION 8.03.  .  No failure on the part of any Lender or the Agent to exercise, and no delay in exercising, any right hereunder or under any Note shall operate as a waiver thereof; nor shall any single or partial exercise of any such right preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right.  The remedies herein provided are cumulative and not exclusive of any remedies provided by law.
No Waiver; Remedies
 
SECTION 8.04.  .  (a)  The Borrower agrees to pay on demand all costs and expenses of the Agent in connection with the preparation, execution, delivery, administration, modification and amendment of this Agreement, the Notes and the other documents to be delivered hereunder, including, without limitation, (A) all due diligence, syndication (including printing, distribution and bank meetings), transportation, computer, duplication, appraisal, consultant, and audit expenses and (B) the reasonable fees and expenses of Shearman & Sterling LLP, counsel for the Agent, with respect thereto and with respect to advising the Agent as to its rights and responsibilities under this Agreement.  The Borrower furthe r agrees to pay on demand all costs and expenses of the Agent and the Lenders, if any (including, without limitation, reasonable counsel fees and expenses), in connection with the enforcement (whether through negotiations, legal proceedings or otherwise) of this Agreement, the Notes and the other documents to be delivered hereunder, including, without limitation, reasonable fees and expenses of counsel for the Agent and each Lender in connection with the enforcement of rights under this Section 8.04(a).
Costs and Expenses
 
(b)           The Borrower agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the Agent and each Lender and each of their Affiliates and their officers, directors, employees, agents and advisors (each, an ) from and against any and all claims, damages, losses, liabilities and expenses (including, without limitation, reasonable fees and expenses of counsel) incurred by or asserted or awarded against any Indemnified Party, in each case arising out of or in connection with or by reason of (including, without limitation, in connection with any investigation, litigation or proceeding or preparation of a defense in connection therewith) the Notes, this Agreement, any of the transactions contemplated herei n or the actual or proposed use of the proceeds of the Advances, except to the extent such claim, damage, loss, liability or expense is found in a final, non-appealable judgment by a court of competent jurisdiction to have resulted from such Indemnified Partys gross negligence or willful misconduct.  In the case of an investigation, litigation or other proceeding to which the indemnity in this Section 8.04(b) applies, such indemnity shall be effective whether or not such investigation, litigation or proceeding is brought by the Borrower, its directors, equityholders or creditors or an Indemnified Party or any other Person, whether or not any Indemnified Party is otherwise a party thereto and whether or not the transactions contemplated hereby are consummated.  The Borrower also agrees not to assert any claim for special, indirect, consequential or punitive damages against the Agent, any Lender, any of their Affiliates, or any of their respective directors, officers, employees, atto rneys and agents, on any theory of liability, arising out of or otherwise relating to the Notes, this Agreement, any of the transactions contemplated herein or the actual or proposed use of the proceeds of the Advances.
Indemnified Party
 
39
 
 
(c)           If any payment of principal of, or Conversion of, any Eurocurrency Rate Advance is made by the Borrower to or for the account of a Lender other than on the last day of the Interest Period for such Advance, as a result of a payment or Conversion pursuant to Section 2.07(d) or (e), 2.09 or 2.11, acceleration of the maturity of the Notes pursuant to Section 6.01 or for any other reason, or by an Eligible Assignee to a Lender other than on the last day of the Interest Period for such Advance upon an assignment of rights and obligations under this Agreement pursuant to Section 8.06 as a result of a demand by the Borrower pursuant to Section 8.06(a), the Borrower shall, upon demand by such Lender (with a copy of such demand to the Agent), pay to the Agent for the account of such Lender any amounts required to compensate such Lender for any additional losses, costs or expenses that it may reasonably incur as a result of such payment or Conversion, including, without limitation, any loss (excluding loss of anticipated profits), cost or expense incurred by reason of the liquidation or reemployment of deposits or other funds acquired by any Lender to fund or maintain such Advance  If the amount of the Committed Currency purchased by any Lender in the case of a Conversion or exchange of Advances in the case of Section 2.08 or 2.12 exceeds the sum required to satisfy such Lenders liability in respect of such Advances, such Lender agrees to remit to the Borrower such excess.
 
(d)           Without prejudice to the survival of any other agreement of the Borrower hereunder, the agreements and obligations of the Borrower contained in Sections 2.10, 2.13 and 8.04 shall survive the payment in full of principal, interest and all other amounts payable hereunder and under the Notes.
 
SECTION 8.05.  .  This Agreement shall become effective (other than Section 2.01, which shall only become effective upon satisfaction of the conditions precedent set forth in Section 3.01) when it shall have been executed by the Borrower and the Agent and when the Agent shall have been notified by each Initial Lender that such Initial Lender has executed it and thereafter shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the Borrower, the Agent and each Lender and their respective successors and assigns, except that the Borrower shall not have the right to assign its rights hereunder or any interest herein without the prior written consent of each of the Lenders.
Binding Effect
 
SECTION 8.06.  .  (a)  Each Lender may and, if demanded by the Borrower (following a demand by such Lender pursuant to Section 2.10 or 2.13 or upon such Lender becoming a Defaulting Lender) upon at least five Business Days notice to such Lender and the Agent, will assign to one or more Persons all or a portion of its rights and obligations under this Agreement (including, without limitation, all or a portion of its Commitment, the Advances owing to it and the Note or Notes held by it); , , that (i) each such assignment shall be of a constant, and not a varying, percentage of all rights and obligations under this Agreement, (ii) except in the case of an assignment to a Person that, immediately prior to such assignment, was a Lender or an assignment of all of a Lenders rights and obligations under this Agreement, the amount of the Commitment of the assigning Lender being assigned pursuant to each such assignment (determined as of the date of the Assignment and Acceptance with respect to such assignment) shall in no event be less than $10,000,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof unless the Borrower and the Agent otherwise agree, (iii) each such assignment shall be to an Eligible Assignee, (iv) each such assignment made as a result of a demand by the Borrower pursuant to this Section 8.06(a) shall be arranged by the Borrower after consultation with the Agent and shall be either an assignment of all of the rights and obligations of the assigning Lender under this Agreement or an assignment of a portion of such rights and obligations made concurrently with another such assignment or other such assignments that together cover all of the rights and obligations of the assigning Lender under this Agreement, (v) no Lender shall be obligated to make any such assignment as a result of a demand by the Borrower pursuant to this Section 8.06(a) unless and until such Lender shall have received one or more payments from either the Borrower or one or more Eligible Assignees in an aggregate amount at least equal to the aggregate outstanding principal amount of the Advances owing to such Lender, together with accrued interest thereon to the date of payment of such principal amount and, subject to Section 2.19, all other amounts payable to such Lender under this Agreement, and (vi) the parties to each such assignment shall execute and deliver to the Agent, for its acceptance and recording in the Register, an Assignment and Acceptance, together with any Note subject to such assignment and a processing and recordation fee o f $3,500 payable by the parties to each such assignment (not including the Borrower), , , that in the case of each assignment made as a result of a demand by the Borrower, such recordation fee shall be payable by the Borrower except that no such recordation fee shall be payable in the case of an assignment made at the request of the Borrower to an Eligible Assignee that is an existing Lender, and (vii) any Lender may, without the approval of the Borrower and the Agent, assign all or a portion of its rights to any of its Affiliates.  Upon such execution, delivery, acceptance and recording, from and after the effective date specified in each Assignment and Acceptance, (x) the assignee thereunder shall be a party hereto and, to the extent that rights and obligations hereunder have been assigned to it pursuant to such Assignment and Acceptance, have the r ights and obligations of a Lender hereunder and (y) the Lender assignor thereunder shall, to the extent that rights and obligations hereunder have been assigned by it pursuant to such Assignment and Acceptance, relinquish its rights (other than its rights under Section 2.10, 2.13 and 8.04 to the extent any claim thereunder relates to an event arising prior such assignment) and be released from its obligations (other than its obligations under Section 7.08 to the extent any claim thereunder relates to an event arising prior to such assignment) under this Agreement (and, in the case of an Assignment and Acceptance covering all or the remaining portion of an assigning Lenders rights and obligations under this Agreement, such Lender shall cease to be a party hereto).
Assignments and Participations
provided
however
provided
however
 
40
 
 
(b)           By executing and delivering an Assignment and Acceptance, the Lender assignor thereunder and the assignee thereunder confirm to and agree with each other and the other parties hereto as follows:  (i) other than as provided in such Assignment and Acceptance, such assigning Lender makes no representation or warranty and assumes no responsibility with respect to any statements, warranties or representations made in or in connection with this Agreement or the execution, legality, validity, enforceability, genuineness, sufficiency or value of this Agreement or any other instrument or document furnished pursuant hereto; (ii) such assigning Lender makes no representation or warranty and assumes no responsibility with respect to the financial condition of the Borrower or the performance or observance by the Borrower of any of its obligations under this Agreement or any other instrument or document furnished pursuant hereto; (iii) such assignee confirms that it has received a copy of this Agreement, together with copies of the financial statements referred to in Section 4.01 and such other documents and information as it has deemed appropriate to make its own credit analysis and decision to enter into such Assignment and Acceptance; (iv) such assignee will, independently and without reliance upon the Agent, such assigning Lender or any other Lender and based on such documents and information as it shall deem appropriate at the time, continue to make its own credit decisions in taking or not taking action under this Agreement; (v) such assignee confirms that it is an Eligible Assignee; (vi) such assignee appoints and authorizes the Agent to take such action as agent on its behalf and to exercise such powers and discretion under this Ag reement as are delegated to the Agent by the terms hereof, together with such powers and discretion as are reasonably incidental thereto; and (vii) such assignee agrees that it will perform in accordance with their terms all of the obligations that by the terms of this Agreement are required to be performed by it as a Lender.
 
41
 
 
(c)           Upon its receipt of an Assignment and Acceptance executed by an assigning Lender and an assignee representing that it is an Eligible Assignee, together with any Note or Notes subject to such assignment, the Agent shall, if such Assignment and Acceptance has been completed and is in substantially the form of Exhibit C hereto, (i) accept such Assignment and Acceptance, (ii) record the information contained therein in the Register and (iii) give prompt notice thereof to the Borrower.
 
(d)           The Agent shall maintain at its address referred to in Section 8.02 a copy of each Assumption Agreement and each Assignment and Acceptance delivered to and accepted by it and a register for the recordation of the names and addresses of the Lenders and the Commitment of, and principal amount of the Advances owing to, each Lender from time to time (the ).  In addition, the Agent shall maintain on the Register information regarding the designation and revocation of designation of any Lender as a Defaulting Lender.  The entries in the Register shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes, absent manifest error, and the Borrower, the Agent and the Lenders ma y treat each Person whose name is recorded in the Register as a Lender hereunder for all purposes of this Agreement.  The Register shall be available for inspection by the Borrower or any Lender at any reasonable time and from time to time upon reasonable prior notice.
Register
 
(e)           Each Lender may sell participations to one or more banks or other entities (other than the Borrower or any of its Affiliates) in or to all or a portion of its rights and obligations under this Agreement (including, without limitation, all or a portion of its Commitment, the Advances owing to it and any Note or Notes held by it); , , that (i) such Lenders obligations under this Agreement (including, without limitation, its Commitment to the Borrower hereunder) shall remain unchanged, (ii) such Lender shall remain solely responsible to the other parties hereto for the performance of such obligations, (iii) 0;such Lender shall remain the holder of any such Note for all purposes of this Agreement, (iv) the Borrower, the Agent and the other Lenders shall continue to deal solely and directly with such Lender in connection with such Lenders rights and obligations under this Agreement and (v) no participant under any such participation shall have any right to approve any amendment or waiver of any provision of this Agreement or any Note, or any consent to any departure by the Borrower therefrom, except to the extent that such amendment, waiver or consent would reduce the principal of, or interest on, the Notes or any fees or other amounts payable hereunder, in each case to the extent subject to such participation, or postpone any date fixed for any payment of principal of, or interest on, the Notes or any fees or other amounts payable hereunder, in each case to the extent subject to such participation.
provided
however
 
(f)           Any Lender may, in connection with any assignment or participation or proposed assignment or participation pursuant to this Section 8.06, disclose to the assignee or participant or proposed assigneeor participant, any information relating to the Borrower furnished to such Lender by or on behalf of the Borrower; that, prior to any such disclosure, the assignee or participant or proposed assigneeor participant shall agree to preserve the confidentiality of any Confidential Information relating to the Borrower received by it from such Lender.
 
provided
 
 
(g)           Notwithstanding any other provision set forth in this Agreement, any Lender may at any time create a security interest in all or any portion of its rights under this Agreement to secure obligations of such Lender, including, without limitation, any pledge or assignment to secure obligations to a Federal Reserve Bank in accordance with Regulation A of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System.
 
42
 
 
SECTION 8.07.  .  Neither the Agent nor any Lender shall disclose any Confidential Information to any other Person without the consent of the Borrower, other than (a) to the Agents or such Lenders Affiliates and their officers, directors, employees, agents and advisors on a need to know basis and, as contemplated by Section 8.06(f), to actual or prospective assignees and participants, and then, in each case, only if such Person agrees to be bound by the provisions of this Section 8.07, (b) as required by any law, rule or regulation or judicial process, (c) as requested or required by any state, federal or foreign authority or examiner regulating banks or banking or other finan cial institutions or self regulatory authority and (d) in connection with the exercise of any remedies hereunder or any suit, action or proceeding relating to this Agreement or the enforcement of rights hereunder.  In the case of a disclosure pursuant to clause (b) above, the disclosing party agrees, to the extent permitted by applicable law, to promptly notify the Borrower prior to such disclosure and to request confidential treatment.  Each of the Lenders hereby notifies the Borrower that, pursuant to the requirements of the Patriot Act, it is required to obtain, verify and record information that identifies the Borrower, which information includes the name and address of the Borrower and other information that will allow it to identify the Borrower in accordance with the Patriot Act.
Confidentiality; Patriot Act
 
SECTION 8.08.  .  This Agreement and the Notes shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.
Governing Law
 
SECTION 8.09.  .  This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts and by different parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original and all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement.  Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page to this Agreement by telecopier shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Agreement.
Execution in Counterparts
 
SECTION 8.10.  .  (a)  Each of the parties hereto hereby irrevocably and unconditionally submits, for itself and its property, to the exclusive jurisdiction of any New York State court or federal court of the United States of America sitting in New York City, Borough of Manhattan, and any appellate court from any thereof, in any action or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement or the Notes, or for recognition or enforcement of any judgment, and each of the parties hereto hereby irrevocably and unconditionally agrees that all claims in respect of any such action or proceeding may be heard and determined in any such New York State court or, to the extent permitted by law, in such federal court.& #160; The Borrower hereby agrees that service of process in any such action or proceeding brought in the any such New York State court or in such federal court may be made upon the Corporate Secretary of the Borrower at 208 S. Akard Street, 27th Floor, Dallas, Texas  75202 (the ) and the Borrower hereby irrevocably appoints the Process Agent its authorized agent to accept such service of process.  The Borrower hereby further irrevocably consents to the service of process in any action or proceeding in such courts by the mailing thereof by any parties hereto by registered or certified mail, postage prepaid, to the Borrower at its address specified pursuant to Section 8.02.  Each of the parties hereto agrees that a final judgment in any such action or proceeding shall be conclusive and may be enforced in other jurisdictions by suit on the judgment or in any other manner provided by law .  Nothing in this Agreement shall affect any right that any party may otherwise have to bring any action or proceeding relating to this Agreement or the Notes in the courts of any jurisdiction.
Jurisdiction, Etc
Process Agent
 
(b)           Each of the parties hereto irrevocably and unconditionally waives, to the fullest extent it may legally and effectively do so, any objection that it may now or hereafter have to the laying of venue of any suit, action or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement or the Notes in any New York State or federal court.  Each of the parties hereto hereby irrevocably waives, to the fullest extent permitted by law, the defense of an inconvenient forum to the maintenance of such action or proceeding in any such court.
 
43
 
 
SECTION 8.11.  .  (a)  If for the purposes of obtaining judgment in any court it is necessary to convert a sum due hereunder in Dollars into another currency, the parties hereto agree, to the fullest extent that they may effectively do so, that the rate of exchange used shall be that at which in accordance with normal banking procedures the Agent could purchase Dollars with such other currency at Citibanks principal office in London at 11:00 A.M. (London time) on the Business Day preceding that on which final judgment is given.
Judgment
 
(b)           If for the purposes of obtaining judgment in any court it is necessary to convert a sum due hereunder in a Committed Currency into Dollars, the parties agree to the fullest extent that they may effectively do so, that the rate of exchange used shall be that at which in accordance with normal banking procedures the Agent could purchase such Committed Currency with Dollars at Citibanks principal office in London at 11:00 A.M. (London time) on the Business Day preceding that on which final judgment is given.
 
(c)           The obligation of the Borrower in respect of any sum due from it in any currency (the ) to any Lender or the Agent hereunder shall, notwithstanding any judgment in any other currency, be discharged only to the extent that on the Business Day following receipt by such Lender or the Agent (as the case may be), of any sum adjudged to be so due in such other currency, such Lender or the Agent (as the case may be) may in accordance with normal banking procedures purchase the applicable Primary Currency with such other currency; if the amount of the applicable Primary Currency so purchased is less than such sum due to such Lender or the Agent (as the case may be) in the applicabl e Primary Currency, the Borrower agrees, as a separate obligation and notwithstanding any such judgment, to indemnify such Lender or the Agent (as the case may be) against such loss, and if the amount of the applicable Primary Currency so purchased exceeds such sum due to any Lender or the Agent (as the case may be) in the applicable Primary Currency, such Lender or the Agent (as the case may be) agrees to remit to the Borrower such excess.
Primary Currency
 
SECTION 8.12.  .  If a change in any Committed Currency occurs pursuant to any applicable law, rule or regulation of any governmental, monetary or multi-national authority, this Agreement (including, without limitation, the definitions of Eurocurrency Rate) will be amended to the extent determined by the Agent (acting reasonably and in consultation with the Borrower) to be necessary to reflect the change in currency and to put the Lenders and the Borrower in the same position, so far as possible, that they would have been in if no change in such Committed Currency had occurred.
Substitution of Currency
 
SECTION 8.13.  .
License Agreement and CDS Data
 
(a)  The Agent hereby notifies the Borrower and the Lenders that it has entered into a licensing agreement (the ) with Markit, pursuant to which Markit will provide to the Agent for each Business Day a composite end of day credit default swap spread for the four (4) year credit default swap spread of the Borrower (the ) that the Agent will use to determine the Credit Default Swap Spread.  The Agent hereby further notifies the Borrower and the Lenders that, pursuant to the Licensing Agreement, (i) the CDS Data will be provided by Markit on an as is basis, without express or implied warranty as to accuracy, completeness, title, merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose, (ii) Markit has no liability to the Agent for any inaccuracies, errors or omissions in the CDS Data, except in the event of its gross negligence, fraud or willful misconduct, (iii) the CDS Data, as provided by Markit, constitutes confidential information (and each Lender agrees to treat such information in confidence to the same extent and in the same manner as such Bank is required to hold Confidential Information pursuant to Section 11.12 hereof), (iv) the CDS Data, as provided by Markit, may be used by the Agent, the Borrower and the Lenders solely for the purposes of this Agreement and (v) Markit and the Agent, except in each case in the event of its gross negligence, fraud or willful misconduct, shall have no liability whatsoever to either the Borrower or any Lender or any client of a Lender, whether in contract, in tort, under a warranty, under statute or otherwise, in respect of any loss or damage suffered by the Borrower , such Lender or cli ent as a result of or in connection with any opinions, recommendations, forecasts, judgments or any other conclusions, or any course of action determined, by such Lender or any client of such Lender based on the CDS Data.  Each of the Borrower and the Lenders (other than Citibank, N.A., in its capacity as the Agent, which is a party thereto) agrees that it shall not be a third party beneficiary of the Licensing Agreement and shall have no rights or obligations thereunder.
Licensing Agreement
CDS Data
 
44
 
 
(b)           The CDS Data shall be made available to the Borrower pursuant to procedures agreed upon by the Borrower and the Agent.  The Borrower agrees that it will use reasonable efforts (e.g., procedures substantially comparable to those applied by the Borrower in respect of non-public information as to the business of the Borrower) to keep confidential the CDS Data and the related materials provided by Markit pursuant to the Licensing Agreement to the extent that the same is not and does not become publicly available.
 
(c)           It is understood and agreed that in the event of a breach of confidentiality, damages may not be an adequate remedy and that the Licensing Agreement provides that Markit shall be entitled to injunctive relief to restrain any such breach, threatened or actual.
 
(d)           The Borrower acknowledges that each of the Agent and the Lenders from time to time may conduct business with and may be a shareholder of Markit and that each of the Agent and the Lenders may have from time to time the right to appoint one or more directors to the board of directors of Markit.
 
(e)           Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Agent hereby represents and warrants to the Borrower that the Agent has the express authority under the Licensing Agreement to provide the CDS Data and the related materials provided from time to time by Markit to the Borrower.
 
SECTION 8.14.  .  If any provision of this Agreement is held to be illegal, invalid or unenforceable, (a) the legality, validity and enforceability of the remaining provisions of this Agreement shall not be affected or impaired thereby and (b) the parties shall endeavor in good faith negotiations to replace the illegal, invalid or unenforceable provisions with valid provisions the economic effect of which comes as close as possible to that of the illegal, invalid or unenforceable provisions.  The invalidity of a provision in a particular jurisdiction shall not invalidate or render unenforceable such provision in any other jurisdiction.  Without limiting the foregoing provisions of this Section 8.14, if and to the extent that the enforceability of any provisions in this Agreement relating to Defaulting Lenders shall be limited by any debtor relief laws, then such provisions shall be deemed to be in effect only to the extent not so limited.
Severability
 
45 
 
 
SECTION 8.15.  .  Each of the Borrower, the Agent and the Lenders hereby irrevocably waives all right to trial by jury in any action, proceeding or counterclaim (whether based on contract, tort or otherwise) arising out of or relating to this Agreement or the Notes or the actions of the Agent or any Lender in the negotiation, administration, performance or enforcement thereof.
Waiver of Jury Trial
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be executed by their respective officers thereunto duly authorized, as of the date first above written.
 
AT&T INC.
By
/s/ Jonathan P. Klug
Name: Jonathan P. Klug
Title: Senior Vice President and Treasurer
CITIBANK, N.A.,
as Agent
By
/s/ Carolyn Kee
Name:  Carolyn Kee
Title:  Vice President
By
/s/ Carolyn Kee
Name:  Carolyn Kee
46 
 
 
BNP PARIBAS
By
/s/ Nuala Marley
Name:  Nuala Marley
Title:  Managing Director
By
/s/ Gregory Paul
Name:  Gregory Paul
Title:  Managing Director
CREDIT SUISSE AG, CAYMAN ISLANDS BRANCH
By
/s/ Doreen Barr
Name:  Doreen Barr
Title:  Director
By
/s/ Vipul Dhadda
Name:  Vipul Dhadda
Title:  Associate
DEUTSCHE BANK AG NEW YORK BRANCH
By
/s/ Andreas Neumeier
Name:  Andreas Neumeier
Title:  Managing Director
By
/s/ Yvonne Tilden
Name:  Yvonne Tilden
Title:  Director
GOLDMAN SACHS BANK USA
By
/s/ Mark Walton
Name:  Mark Walton
Title:  Authorized Signatory
MORGAN STANLEY BANK, N.A.
By
/s/ Ryan Vetsch
Name:  Ryan Vetsch
Title:  Authorized Signatory
THE BANK OF TOKYO-MITSUBISHI UFJ, LTD.
By
/s/ Brian McNany
Name:  Brian McNany
Title:  Authorized Signatory
47 
 
 
THE ROYAL BANK OF SCOTLAND PLC
By
/s/ Matthew Pennachio
Name:  Matthew Pennachio
Title:  Vice President
UBS LOAN FINANCE LLC
By
/s/ Irja R. Otsa
Name:  Irja R. Otsa
Title:  Associate Director
By
/s/ April Varner-Nanton
Name:  April Varner-Nanton
Title:  Director
WELLS FARGO BANK, N.A.
By
/s/ Greg D. Campbell
Name:  Greg D. Campbell
Title: Director
INTESA SANPAOLO S.P.A. NEW YORK BRANCH
By
/s/ John Michalisin
Name:  John Michalisin
Title:  First Vice President
By
/s/ Franco Di Mario
Name:  Franco Di Mario
Title:  First Vice President & Credit Manager
MIZUHO CORPORATE BANK LIMITED
By
/s/ Bertram H. Tang
Name:  Bertram H. Tang
Title:  Authorized Signatory
THE NORTHERN TRUST COMPANY
By
/s/ Steven W. Ryan
Name:  Steven W. Ryan
Title:  Sr. Vice President
THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON
By
/s/ Thomas J. Tarasovich, Jr.
Name:  Thomas J. Tarasovich, Jr.
Title:  Vice President
48 
 
 
COMERICA BANK
By
/s/ Robert L. Nelson
Name:  Robert L. Nelson
Title:  Vice President
U.S. BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
By
/s/ Colleen McEvoy
Name:  Colleen McEvoy
Title:  Vice President
MANUFACTURERS AND TRADERS TRUST COMPANY
By
/s/ Erik Zeppuhar
Name:  Erik Zeppuhar
Title:  Assistant Vice President
STATE STREET BANK AND TRUST COMPANY
By
/s/ Juan G. Sierra
Name:  Juan G. Sierra
Title:  Vice President
49 
 
 
SCHEDULE I
AT&T INC.
364-DAY CREDIT AGREEMENT
APPLICABLE LENDING OFFICES
 
 
NYDOCS02/767329
 
 
 
SCHEDULE 5.02(a)
EXISTING LIENS
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NYDOCS02/767329
 
 
 
EXHIBIT A - FORM OF
NON-NEGOTIABLE PROMISSORY NOTE
 
U.S.$_______________                                                                                     Dated:  _______________, 20__
 
FOR VALUE RECEIVED, the undersigned, AT&T INC., a Delaware corporation (the ), HEREBY PROMISES TO PAY to the order of _________________________ (the ) for the account of its Applicable Lending Office on the later of the Termination Date and the date designated pursuant to Section 2.05 of the Credit Agreement (each as defined in the Credit Agreement referred to below) the principal sum of U.S.$[amount of the Lenders Commitment in figures] or, if less, the aggregate principal amount of the Advances made by the Lender to the Borrower pursuant to the 364-Day Credit Agreement dated as of December 6, 2010 among the Borrower, the Lender and certain other lenders parties thereto, Citigroup Global Markets Inc., JPMorgan Securities LLC, Barclays Capital, the investment banking division of Barclays Bank PLC and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, as joint lead arrangers and joint bookrunners, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as syndication agent, Bank of America, N.A., Barclays Bank PLC and Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., as documentation agents, and Citibank, N.A., as Agent for the Lender and such other lenders (as amended or modified from time to time, the ; the terms defined therein being used herein as therein defined) outstanding on such date.
Borrower
Lender
Credit Agreement
 
The Borrower promises to pay interest on the unpaid principal amount of each Advance from the date of such Advance until such principal amount is paid in full, at such interest rates, and payable at such times, as are specified in the Credit Agreement.
 
Both principal and interest in respect of each Advance (i) in Dollars are payable in lawful money of the United States of America to the Agent at its account maintained at 388 Greenwich Street, New York, New York 10013, in same day funds and (ii) in any Committed Currency are payable in such currency at the applicable Payment Office in same day funds.  Each Advance owing to the Lender by the Borrower pursuant to the Credit Agreement, and all payments made on account of principal thereof, shall be recorded by the Lender and, prior to any transfer hereof, endorsed on the grid attached hereto which is part of this Promissory Note.
 
This Promissory Note is one of the Notes referred to in, and is entitled to the benefits of, the Credit Agreement.  The Credit Agreement, among other things, (i) provides for the making of Advances by the Lender to the Borrower from time to time in an aggregate amount not to exceed at any time outstanding the U.S. dollar amount first above mentioned, the indebtedness of the Borrower resulting from each such Advance being evidenced by this Promissory Note, (ii) contains provisions for determining the Dollar Equivalent of Advances denominated in Committed Currencies and (iii) contains provisions for acceleration of the maturity hereof upon the happening of certain stated events and also for prepayments on account of principal hereof prior to the maturity hereof upon the terms and conditions therein specified.
 
AT&T INC.
 
By __________________________
Title:
NYDOCS02/767329
 
 
 
ADVANCES AND PAYMENTS OF PRINCIPAL
 
 
2 
 
 
EXHIBIT B - FORM OF NOTICE OF
 BORROWING
Citibank, N.A., as Agent
  for the Lenders parties
  to the Credit Agreement
  referred to below
  1615 Brett Road, Building #3
  New Castle, Delaware 19720
[Date]
 
Attention: Bank Loan Syndications Department
 
Ladies and Gentlemen:
 
The undersigned, AT&T Inc., refers to the 364-Day Credit Agreement, dated as of December 6, 2010 (as amended or modified from time to time, the , the terms defined therein being used herein as therein defined), among the undersigned, certain Lenders parties thereto, Citigroup Global Markets Inc., JPMorgan Securities LLC, Barclays Capital, the investment banking division of Barclays Bank PLC and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, as joint lead arrangers and joint bookrunners, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as syndication agent, Bank of America, N.A., Barclays Bank PLC and Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., as documentation agents, and Citibank, N.A., as Agent for said Lenders, and hereby gives you notice, irrevocably, pursuan t to Section 2.02 of the Credit Agreement that the undersigned hereby requests a Borrowing under the Credit Agreement, and in that connection sets forth below the information relating to such Borrowing (the ) as required by Section 2.02(a) of the Credit Agreement:
Credit Agreement
Proposed Borrowing
 
(i)           The Business Day of the Proposed Borrowing is _______________, 20__.
 
(ii)           The Type of Advances comprising the Proposed Borrowing is [Base Rate Advances] [Eurocurrency Rate Advances].
 
(iii)           The aggregate amount of the Proposed Borrowing is [$_______________] [for a Borrowing in a Committed Currency.  List currency and amount of Borrowing].
 
(iv)           The proceeds of the Proposed Borrowing shall be funded to account maintained by the Borrower at __________ at its office at __________, Account No. __________.
 
[(v)           The initial Interest Period for each Eurocurrency Rate Advance made as part of the Proposed Borrowing is _____ month[s].]
 
The undersigned hereby certifies that the following statements are true on the date hereof, and will be true on the date of the Proposed Borrowing:
 
(A)           the representations and warranties contained in Section 4.01 of the Credit Agreement (except the representations set forth in the last sentence of subsection (e) thereof and in subsection (f)(i) thereof) are correct, before and after giving effect to the Proposed Borrowing and to the application of the proceeds therefrom, as though made on and as of such date; and
 
NYDOCS02/767329
 
 
 
(B)           no event has occurred and is continuing, or would result from such Proposed Borrowing or from the application of the proceeds therefrom, that constitutes a Default, and
 
(C)           the Proposed Borrowing is within any applicable debt limitations by the Board of Directors of the Borrower.
established
 
.
 
Very truly yours,
 
AT&T INC.
 
By __________________________
Title:
2
 
 
EXHIBIT C - FORM OF
ASSIGNMENT AND ACCEPTANCE
 
Reference is made to the 364-Day Credit Agreement dated as of December 6, 2010 (as amended or modified from time to time, the ) among AT&T Inc., a Delaware corporation (the ), the Lenders (as defined in the Credit Agreement), Citigroup Global Markets Inc., JPMorgan Securities LLC, Barclays Capital, the investment banking division of Barclays Bank PLC and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, as joint lead arrangers and joint bookrunners, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as syndication agent, Bank of America, N.A., Barclays Bank PLC and Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., as documentation agents, and Citibank, N.A., as agent for the Lenders (the ).  Terms defined in the Credit Agreement are used herein with the same meaning.
Credit Agreement
Borrower
Agent
 
The Assignor and the Assignee referred to on Schedule I hereto agree as follows:
 
1.           The Assignor hereby sells and assigns to the Assignee, and the Assignee hereby purchases and assumes from the Assignor, an interest in and to the Assignors rights and obligations under the Credit Agreement as of the date hereof equal to the percentage interest specified on Schedule 1 hereto of all outstanding rights and obligations under the Credit Agreement.  After giving effect to such sale and assignment, the Assignees Commitment and the amount of the Advances owing to the Assignee will be as set forth on Schedule 1 hereto.
 
2.           The Assignor (i) represents and warrants that it is the legal and beneficial owner of the interest being assigned by it hereunder and that such interest is free and clear of any adverse claim; (ii) makes no representation or warranty and assumes no responsibility with respect to any statements, warranties or representations made in or in connection with the Credit Agreement or the execution, legality, validity, enforceability, genuineness, sufficiency or value of the Credit Agreement or any other instrument or document furnished pursuant thereto; (iii) makes no representation or warranty and assumes no responsibility with respect to the financial condition of the Borrower or the performance or observance by the Borrower of any of its obligations under t he Credit Agreement or any other instrument or document furnished pursuant thereto; and (iv) attaches the Note[, if any] held by the Assignor [and requests that the Agent exchange such Note for a new Note payable to the order of [the Assignee in an amount equal to the Commitment assumed by the Assignee pursuant hereto or new Notes payable to the order of the Assignee in an amount equal to the Commitment assumed by the Assignee pursuant hereto and] the Assignor in an amount equal to the Commitment retained by the Assignor under the Credit Agreement, [respectively,] as specified on Schedule 1 hereto.
 
3.           The Assignee (i) confirms that it has received a copy of the Credit Agreement, together with copies of the financial statements referred to in Section 4.01 thereof and such other documents and information as it has deemed appropriate to make its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Assignment and Acceptance; (ii) agrees that it will, independently and without reliance upon the Agent, the Assignor or any other Lender and based on such documents and information as it shall deem appropriate at the time, continue to make its own credit decisions in taking or not taking action under the Credit Agreement; (iii) confirms that it is an Eligible Assignee; (iv) appoints and authorizes the Agent to take such action as agent on its behalf a nd to exercise such powers and discretion under the Credit Agreement as are delegated to the Agent by the terms thereof, together with such powers and discretion as are reasonably incidental thereto; (v) agrees that it will perform in accordance with their terms all of the obligations that by the terms of the Credit Agreement are required to be performed by it as a Lender; and (vi) attaches any U.S. Internal Revenue Service forms required under Section 2.13 of the Credit Agreement.
 
4.           Following the execution of this Assignment and Acceptance, it will be delivered to the Agent for acceptance and recording by the Agent.  The effective date for this Assignment and Acceptance (the ) shall be the date of acceptance hereof by the Agent, unless otherwise specified on Schedule 1 hereto.
Effective Date
 
5.           Upon such acceptance and recording by the Agent, as of the Effective Date, (i) the Assignee shall be a party to the Credit Agreement and, to the extent provided in this Assignment and Acceptance, have the rights and obligations of a Lender thereunder and (ii) the Assignor shall, to the extent provided in this Assignment and Acceptance, relinquish its rights and be released from its obligations under the Credit Agreement.
 
6.           Upon such acceptance and recording by the Agent, from and after the Effective Date, the Agent shall make all payments under the Credit Agreement and the Notes in respect of the interest assigned hereby (including, without limitation, all payments of principal, interest and commitment fees with respect thereto) to the Assignee.  The Assignor and Assignee shall make all appropriate adjustments in payments under the Credit Agreement and the Notes for periods prior to the Effective Date directly between themselves.
 
7.           This Assignment and Acceptance shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.
 
8.           This Assignment and Acceptance may be executed in any number of counterparts and by different parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original and all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement.  Delivery of an executed counterpart of Schedule 1 to this Assignment and Acceptance by telecopier shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Assignment and Acceptance.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Assignor and the Assignee have caused Schedule 1 to this Assignment and Acceptance to be executed by their officers thereunto duly authorized as of the date specified thereon.
NYDOCS02/767329
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
[NAME OF ASSIGNOR], as Assignor
 
By __________________________
Title:
 
Dated:  _______________, 20__
 
[NAME OF ASSIGNEE], as Assignee
 
By __________________________
Title:
 
Dated:  _______________, 20__
 
Domestic Lending Office:
[Address]
 
Eurocurrency Lending Office:
[Address]
 
_________________________________
 
 
 
 
 
Accepted [and Approved]* this
__________ day of _______________, 20__
 
CITIBANK, N.A., as Agent
 
By                                                      
   Title:
 
[Approved this __________ day
of _______________, 20__
 
AT&T INC.
 
By _______________________]*
   Title:
 
___________________________________
 
 
 
 
4 
 
 
EXHIBIT D - FORM OF
OPINION OF COUNSEL
FOR THE BORROWER
 
December __, 2010
 
To each of the Lenders parties
 to the 364-Day Credit Agreement dated
 as of December 6, 2010
 among AT&T Inc.,
 said Lenders and Citibank, N.A.,
 as Agent for said Lenders, and
 to Citibank, N.A., as Agent
 
Ladies and Gentlemen:
 
Pursuant to Section 3.01(h)(iv) of the Credit Agreement, dated as of December 6, 2010 (the ), among AT&T Inc. (the ), the Lenders parties thereto and Citibank, N.A., as Agent for said Lenders, I am of the opinion that:
Credit Agreement
Borrower
 
1.           The Borrower is a corporation duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the State of Delaware.
 
2.           The Credit Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered, and constitutes a legal, valid and binding instrument enforceable against the Borrower in accordance with its terms (subject, as to enforcement of remedies, to applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent transfer, reorganization, moratorium or other similar laws of general applicability relating to or affecting creditors rights generally from time to time in effect and to general principles of equity).
 
3.           Neither the execution and delivery of the Credit Agreement or the issuance of the Notes, nor the consummation of any other of the transactions therein contemplated, nor the fulfillment of the terms thereof will conflict with, result in a breach of, or constitute a default under, the charter or bylaws of the Borrower or the terms of any indenture or other agreement or instrument known to me and to which the Borrower is a party or by which the Borrower is bound, or any applicable law, order or regulation known to me to be applicable to the Borrower of any court, regulatory body, administrative agency, governmental body or arbitrator having jurisdiction over the Borrower.
 
4.           No order, consent, authorization, approval, registration or qualification of or with any governmental agency or body having jurisdiction over the Borrower is required for the due execution, delivery and performance by the Borrower of the Credit Agreement and the Notes.
 
5.
 
The form and terms of the Notes have been duly authorized and established by all necessary corporate action, and, when executed and delivered, will constitute valid and legally binding obligations of the Borrower (subject, as to enforcement of remedies, to applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent transfer, reorganization, moratorium or other similar laws of general applicability relating to or affecting creditors rights generally from time to time in effect and to general principles of equity).
 
6.
 
To the best of my knowledge, there is no pending or overtly threatened action, suit or proceedings against the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, as such term is defined in the Credit Agreement, before any court, governmental agency or arbitrator that purport to affect the legality, validity, binding effect or enforceability of the Credit Agreement or any of the Notes or the consummation of the transactions contemplated thereby or, if likely to have a materially adverse effect upon the financial condition or operations of the Borrower, that is not disclosed in a filing by the Borrower with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
In giving the foregoing opinion, I have assumed that at the time of any Borrowing and the execution of the Notes that any such Borrowing was in accordance with any applicable debt limitations established by the Board of Directors of the Borrower.  In addition, I have relied, as to certain matters of fact, upon certificates of responsible officers of the Borrower and public officials.
 
Very truly yours,
 
NYDOCS02/767329
 
 
 
EXECUTION COPY
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
i
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ii
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Schedules
 
Schedule I - List of Applicable Lending Offices
 
Schedule 5.02(a) - Existing Liens
 
Exhibits
 
Exhibit A                    -       Form of Note
 
Exhibit B                    -       Form of Notice of Borrowing
 
Exhibit C                    -       Form of Assignment and Acceptance
 
Exhibit D                    -       Form of Opinion of Counsel for the Borrower
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
iii


