FILE:T/T-8K-20111220130826.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement
TEXT:
ITEM: Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.02                      Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement.
On December 19, 2011, AT&T Inc. ("AT&T") announced that AT&T and Deutsche Telekom AG ("Deutsche Telekom") had agreed to terminate the Stock Purchase Agreement, dated as of March 20, 2011 (the Stock Purchase Agreement), entered into to effect AT&Ts purchase of T-Mobile USA, Inc.  Terms and conditions of the termination are set forth in Exhibit 10, which is incorporated by reference herein.  To reflect the break-up considerations due Deutsche Telekom under the Stock Purchase Agreement in connection with its termination, AT&T will recognize a pre-tax accounting charge of $4 billion in the fourth quarter of 2011.
The termination of the Stock Purchase Agreement will also result in the termination of the Stockholders Agreement, dated as of March 20, 2011, between AT&T and Deutsche Telekom, which would have taken effect upon the closing of the purchase of T-Mobile USA, Inc., and the bridge loan agreement entered into between AT&T and a group of banks as of March 31, 2011.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
EXECUTION VERSION
 
Exhibit 10
 
 
December 19, 2011
 
 
Via Facsimile and E-mail
 
Deutsche Telekom AG,
 
Friedrich-Ebert-Alle 140
 
53113 Bonn, Germany
 
Facsimile: +49-228-181-74008
 
Attention:  Mr. Ren Obermann
 
We make reference to the Stock Purchase Agreement, dated as of March 20, 2011 (the ), by and between Deutsche Telekom AG, an organized and existing under the laws of the Federal Republic of Germany (), and AT&T Inc., a Delaware corporation (), and the Domestic UMTS Roaming Agreement, dated as of July 19, 2011 (the ), by and between AT&T Mobility LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, and T-Mobile USA, Inc., a Delaware corporation.  This letter agreement constitutes the mutual written consent of DT and AT&T to terminate the Purchase Agreement effective as of the date hereof.  Any capitalized terms used herein but not defined shall have the respective meanings ascribed to such terms in the Purchase Agreement.
Purchase Agreement
Aktiengesellschaft
DT
AT&T
Roaming Agreement
 
DT and AT&T hereby agree that the termination of the Purchase Agreement pursuant to this letter agreement shall have the same effect as a termination pursuant to Section 7.2 of the Purchase Agreement at the time of which termination (i) the conditions set forth in Section 5.1(a), 5.1(b) or 5.2(c) of the Purchase Agreement shall not have been satisfied and (ii) all other conditions to the Closing set forth in Sections 5.1 and 5.2 of the Purchase Agreement shall have been satisfied or waived (other than those conditions that by their terms are to be satisfied at the Closing but which conditions would be satisfied or, in the case of Section 5.2(e) of the Purchase Agreement, would be capable of being satisfied if the Closing Date were the date of such termination, or those conditions that have not been satisfied as a result of a breach by Purchaser).
 
Accordingly, (i) AT&T, or one of its Affiliates, shall (A) within three Business Days following the date of this letter agreement, pay to DT the cash amount set forth on Annex E of the Purchase Agreement by wire transfer of immediately available funds and (B) deliver to the Company, or as otherwise directed by DT, the assets set forth on Annex E of the Purchase Agreement in accordance with the obligations under Section 7.5(b) of the Purchase Agreement (which shall continue in effect as to such matters notwithstanding the termination of the Purchase Agreement), and (ii) pursuant to Section 2(a) of the Roaming Agreement and in full satisfaction of AT&Ts obligations under Section 7.5(b) of the Purchase Agreement with respect to the roaming agreement referenced therein, all of the sections of the Roaming Agreement that were not effective as of the execution date of the Roaming Agreement shall come into full force and effect on the date hereof and shall be implemented as set forth in the Roaming Agreement or as the parties thereto otherwise shall agree.  Upon and after the payment of such cash amount, so long as AT&T is in good faith attempting to comply with its obligations under Section 7.5(b) of the Purchase Agreement with respect to the transfer(s) of the assets set forth on Annex E of the Purchase Agreement, the sole and exclusive remedy of DT and its Subsidiaries and their respective officers, directors and Affiliates against AT&T and its Subsidiaries and their respective officers, directors and Affiliates for any Damages resulting from, arising out of, or incurred in connection with, the Purchase Agreement (including termination thereof) or any transactions ancillary thereto shall be as set forth in Section 7.5(c) of the Purchase Agreement.
 
Section 8.3 of the Purchase Agreement shall apply to this letter agreement and any action or proceeding in respect of any claim arising out of, related to or arising under this letter agreement.
 
This letter agreement shall be binding upon, and inure to the benefit of, the parties hereto and their respective successors, heirs, legal representatives and permitted assigns.  This letter agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts, each such counterpart (including any facsimile or electronic document transmission of such counterpart) being deemed to be an original instrument, and all such counterparts shall together constitute the same agreement.
 
 
 
 
 
If you are in agreement with the foregoing, please countersign as provided for below.
AT&T INC.
 
By:  
/s/ Randall L. Stephenson
 
Name:    Randall Stephenson
 
 
 
 
DEUTSCHE TELEKOM AG
 
 
By:                                                                  By:   
/s/ Ren Obermann
/s/ Timotheus Httges
 
 
Title:           Chief Executive Officer                                            Title:         Chief Financial Officer
 
 
Adam O. Emmerich
 
Steven A. Cohen
 
(Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


