FILE:T/T-8K-20111216160102.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
SERP AMENDMENTS
On June 24, 2010, the Human Resources Committee (the Committee) of the Board of Directors of AT&T Inc. (AT&T) amended AT&Ts 2005 Supplemental Employee Retirement Plan (the SERP) with respect to the SERP benefit for AT&Ts Chief Executive Officer, Randall Stephenson (the June Amendment). As a result of the June Amendment, (1) Mr. Stephensons compensation for purposes of calculating his SERP benefit was frozen as of June 30, 2010, (2) Mr. Stephensons age and service for purposes of calculating his SERP benefit will be frozen as of December 31, 2012, and (3) interest will accrue on the discounted present value of Mr. Stephensons frozen SERP benefit during his employment, beginning January 1, 2013.  The June Amendment included a determination that the interest rate applicable to Mr. Stephensons benefit will also be the discount rate used to convert Mr. Stephensons frozen SERP benefit to a lump sum as well as the rate used to convert the lump sum amount to the form of distribution elected by Mr. Stephenson, and the Committee determined to set the actual interest rate at a later meeting.
At its meeting on December 15, 2011, the Committee set the interest and discount rate for Mr. Stephensons SERP at 5.8% and made other clarifying changes to the SERP.  The 5.8% rate is the same rate that applies to any other SERP participant who becomes eligible for a distribution during calendar year 2012.
EQUITY RETENTION AND HEDGING POLICY
Also, on December 15, 2011, the Committee approved the AT&T Inc. Equity Retention and Hedging Policy (the Policy).  Pursuant to the policy, AT&Ts executive officers must retain 25% (after taxes and exercise costs)of AT&T stock received under an incentive, equity, or option award granted after January 1, 2012, until one year after termination of employment with AT&T.  The Policy also prohibits executive officers from hedging AT&T stock and restates existing stock ownership guidelines.
 
The foregoing descriptions of the SERP and the Policy do not purport to be complete and are subject to, and qualified in their entirety by, the full text of the SERP and the Policy, which are attached hereto as Exhibits 10.1 and 10.2, respectively, and incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
Exhibit 10.1
 
 
The purpose of the 2005 Supplemental Employee Retirement Plan (the SERP or the "Plan") is to provide Participants with retirement benefits to supplement benefits payable pursuant to qualified group pension plans sponsored by AT&T or an affiliate of AT&T.  The Plan is a successor to the AT&T Supplemental Retirement Income Plan (SRIP) that was effective January 1, 1984 and which was amended, effective December 31, 2004, to cease accruals so that the benefits payable under the SRIP shall be grandfathered and administered in accordance with the provisions of the SRIP in a manner that does not invoke Section 409A of the Code.
 
 
For purposes of this Plan, the following words and phrases shall have the meanings indicated, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise:
 
. "Administrative Committee" means a Committee, consisting of the SEVP-HR and two or more other members designated by the SEVP-HR, which shall administer the Plan.
Administrative Committee
 
.  "Agreement" means the written agreement entered into between AT&T by its SEVP-HR and a Participant prior to January 1, 2009 to carry out the Plan with respect to such Participant.  No Agreements are necessary for Participants who become eligible to participate in the Plan on or after January 1, 2009.
Agreement
 
.  "AT&T" means AT&T Inc.
AT&T
 
.  "Beneficiary" shall mean any beneficiary or beneficiaries designated by the Participant pursuant to the AT&T Rules for Employee Beneficiary Designations as may hereafter be amended from time-to-time ("Rules").  If a Participant fails to execute a Beneficiary designation form with respect to Plan benefits, his or her Beneficiary designation form with respect to his SRIP benefits shall apply with respect to his Plan benefits.  If a Participant fails to execute a Beneficiary designation form with respect to Plan benefits and with respect to SRIP benefits, the default provisions in the Rules shall apply.
Beneficiary
 
  CEO or Chief Executive Officer shall mean the Chief Executive Officer of AT&T.
CEO or Chief Executive
Officer.
 
.  Disabled or "Disability" means the Participants (i) inability to engage in any substantial gainful activity by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment which can be expected to result in death or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than twelve (12) months, or (ii) is, by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment which can be expected to result in death or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than twelve (12) months, receiving income replacement benefits for a period of not less than three (3) months under an accident or health plan covering employees of the Participants employer.  The Administrative Committee, in its complete and sole discretion, determines whether a Participant is Disabled.  The Administrative Committee may require that the Participant submit to an examination by a competent physician or medical clinic selected by the Administrative Committee.  On the basis of such medical evidence, the determination of the Administrative Committee as to whether or not a Participant is Disabled shall be conclusive.
Disabled or Disability
 
.  "Earnings" means for a given calendar year the Participant's: (1) bonus earned as a short term award during the calendar year but not exceeding 200% of the target amount of such bonus (or such other portion of the bonus or target bonus as may be determined by the Human Resources Committee of the Board of AT&T), plus (2) base salary before reduction due to any contribution pursuant to any deferred compensation plan or agreement sponsored by AT&T or an AT&T affiliate, including but not limited to compensation deferred in accordance with Sections 401(k), 125, or 132(f) of the Internal Revenue Code.
Earnings
 
.  "Final Average Earnings" means the average of the Participant's Monthly Earnings for the thirty-six (36) consecutive months out of the one hundred twenty (120) months next preceding the Participant's Termination of Employment which yields the highest average earnings.  If the Participant has fewer than thirty-six (36) months of employment, the average shall be taken over his or her period of employment.
Final Average Earnings
 
.  For a referenced calendar year, "GAAP Rate" means the interest rate used for valuing Plan liabilities on December 31 of the immediately preceding calendar year and for calculating periodic pension expense for the referenced calendar year, both for purposes of AT&T's financial statement reporting requirements.
GAAP Rate
.  Human Resources Committee means the Human Resources Committee of the AT&T Inc. Board of Directors.
Human Resources Committee
.  Immediate Annuity Value of any AT&T or affiliate Qualified Pensions shall have the meaning as provided in Attachment B.
Immediate Annuity Value of any AT&T or affiliate Qualified Pensions
 
. "Immediate Annuity Value of SRIP" shall have the meaning as provided in Attachment C.
Immediate Annuity Value of SRIP
 
. "Immediate Annuity Value of any AT&T or affiliate Non-Qualified Pensions other than SERP" shall have the meaning as provided in Attachment D.
Immediate Annuity Value of any other AT&T or affiliate Non-Qualified Pensions other than SERP
 
Mid-Career Hire means an individual whose Service Commencement Date is on or after the individuals thirty-fifth (35) birthday.
Mid-Career Hire
.  
th
 
.  "Monthly Earnings" means one-twelfth (1/12) of Earnings.
Monthly Earnings
 
.  "Mortality Tables" means the mortality tables as defined by Code Section 417(e) for valuing minimum lump sum benefits payable from qualified pension plans for the referenced period.
Mortality Tables
 
. "Officer" shall mean an individual who is designated as an officer level employee for compensation purposes on the records of AT&T.
Officer
. "Participant" means:
Participant
 
 
 
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing definition of Participant, the Human Resources Committee, may, at any time and from time to time, exclude any person or group of persons from being a Participant under this plan.
 
An individuals participation in SERP shall commence as of his or her SERP Effective Date.
 
.  "Retire" or "Retirement" shall mean the Termination of Employment of a Participant for reasons other than death, on or after the earlier of the following dates:  (1) the date the Participant is Retirement Eligible or (2) the date the Participant has attained one of the following combinations of age and service at Termination of Employment:
Retire or Retirement
 
                                                                          
Years of Service
Age
25 years or more                                                                50 or older
30 years or more                                                                Any age
 
.  "Retirement Eligible" or "Retirement Eligibility" means that a Participant has attained age 55 and has at least five (5) Years of Service.
Retirement Eligible
 
.  "Retirement Percent" means the percent specified in the Agreement with the Participant (if any) which establishes a Target Retirement Benefit (see Section 3.1) as a percentage of Final Average Earnings. For an individual who becomes a Participant on or after January 1, 2006, "Retirement Percent" means 50 percent unless otherwise provided by the Human Resources Committee of the Board of Directors of AT&T.
Retirement Percent
 
.  SERP Effective Date means the date of the written designation of the Participants eligibility to participate in SERP, signed by the CEO or authorized by the Human Resources Committee, as required by the Plan.
SERP Effective Date
 
.  SEVP-HR means AT&Ts Senior Executive Vice President responsible for Human Resources matters.
SEVP-HR
 
.  "Supplemental Retirement Income Plan or SRIP" means the AT&T Inc. Supplemental Retirement Income Plan effective January 1, 1984.
Supplemental Retirement Income Plan or SRIP
 
.  Service Commencement Date means the Participants employment commencement date with AT&T or any AT&T affiliate, as such date may be adjusted from time-to-time in accordance with rules, policies and procedures generally applied by AT&T to adjust for breaks in service or other periods of time, as reflected in AT&Ts or an AT&T affiliates records, all as determined in the discretion of the SEVP-HR.
Service Commencement Date
 
.  "Service Factor" means, unless otherwise agreed in writing by the Participant and AT&T, either (a) a deduction of 1.43 percent, or .715 percent for Mid-Career Hires, multiplied by the number by which (i) thirty-five (or thirty in the case of a Participant who is an Officer) exceeds (ii) the number of Years of Service of the Participant, or (b) a credit of 0.715 percent multiplied by the number by which (i) the number of Years of Service of the Participant exceeds (ii) thirty-five (or thirty in the case of a Participant who is an Officer).  For purposes of the above computation, a deduction shall result in the Service Factor being subtracted from the Retirement Percent whereas a credit shall result in the Service Factor being added to the Retirement Percent.
Service Factor
 
.  "Termination of Employment" means the ceasing of the Participant's employment from the AT&T controlled group of companies for any reason whatsoever, whether voluntarily or involuntarily.  A Participant will be deemed to have realized a Termination of Employment at any time that a Participant and the Administrative Committee reasonably anticipate that the bona fide level of services the Participant will perform (whether as an employee or an independent contractor) will be permanently reduced to a level that is less than fifty percent (50%) of the average level of bona fide services the Participant performed during the immediately preceding thirty-six (36) months (or the entire period the Participant has provided services if the Participant has been providing services to the AT&T controlled group of companies less than thirty-six (36) months).
Termination of Employment
 
  A "Year" is a period of twelve (12) consecutive calendar months.
Year
.
 
.  "Years of Participation" means the number of each complete Years beginning with the Participants SERP Effective Date through each annual anniversary of such date.
Years of Participation
 
.  "Years of Service" means the number of each complete Years of full-time service as an employee of AT&T or an AT&T affiliate beginning with the Participants Service Commencement Date through each annual anniversary of such date, including service prior to the adoption of this Plan. Years of Service shall also include, without duplication, (i.) a Participants Years of service that are recognized for purposes of the BellSouth Corporation Supplemental Employee Retirement Plan, or (ii.) a Participants years of service on the Cingular Wireless payroll during the period beginning on 10/28/01 and ending on or prior to 12/31/04 that were recognized for purposes of the Cingular Wireless SBC Executive Transition Supplemental Retirement Income Plan, but that are not otherwise included pursuant to the immediately preceding sentence.
Years of Service
 
 
 
With respect to (1) a Participant who was a participant in the SRIP prior to January 1, 1998, or (2) a Participant who, prior to January 1, 1998, was an officer of a Pacific Telesis Group ("PTG") company and became a participant in the SRIP after January 1, 1998, the amount of such Participants SERP Benefit is calculated as follows:
 
 
With respect to all other Participants, subject to the provisions of Attachment E, the amount of such Participants SERP Benefit is calculated as follows:
 
Where in both of the above cases the following apply:
 
 
 
 
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if at the time of Termination of Employment the Participant is, or has been within the one year period immediately preceding the Participant's Termination of Employment, an Officer with 30 or more Years of Service such Participant's Age Discount shall be zero.
 
Except to true up for an actual short term award paid following Termination of Employment, there shall be no recalculation of the value of a Participant's SERP Benefit hereunder following a Participant's Termination of Employment.
 
3.2.
 
.
Vesting
 
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Plan:
 
 
 
 
 
The normal form of a Participant's benefits hereunder shall be a Life with 10-Year Certain Benefit as described in Section (a).
4.2
 
 
Notwithstanding the normal form for distribution of a Participants SERP Benefits, a Participant may elect one of the following Benefit Payout Alternatives:
 
 
 
 
 
The Benefit Payout Alternatives described in Section (b), (c) and (d) shall be the actuarially determined equivalent (using the same reasonable actuarial assumptions and methods for valuing each Benefit Payout Alternative as determined by the SEVP-HR in his or her complete and sole discretion) of the Life With 10-Year Certain Benefit that is converted by such election.  The amount of a Participant's lump sum benefit shall be calculated as of the Participant's Termination of Employment by applying the Mortality Tables and the GAAP Rate, both as in effect for the calendar year immediately preceding the calendar year of the Participants Termination of Employment, but using the Participants age, Years of Service and other factors as of the Participants Termination of Employment.
4.2
4.2
4.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Plan to the contrary, in the event of the divorce or legal separation of the Participant, the Participants election to have a Benefit Payout Alternative described in Section (b) or (c), with a survivor annuity for the benefit of the Participant's former spouse as Beneficiary, shall, without any action by the Participant, be revoked, and the Participant's benefit, or remaining benefit, under the Plan, as the case may be, shall be paid as provided in Section (a) (using the same reasonable actuarial assumptions and methods for valuing each annuity form of benefit before and after the divorce or legal separation  and shall be subject to actuarial adjustment (as determined by the SEVP-HR in his or her complete and sole discretion).  In such event, the 10-Year period as described in Section (a) shall be the same 10-year period as if such form of benefit was the form of benefit originally selected and the expiration date of such period shall not be extended beyond its original expiration date.  Payments pursuant to Participants new form of benefit shall be effective commencing with the first monthly payment following notice from the Participant to the SEVP-HR after the divorce (or legal separation) becomes final.
4.2
4.2
4.2
4.2
 
 
 
 
A Participants lump sum benefit payment schedule must comply with the rules for payment schedules as adopted by the SEVP-HR (as determined by the SEVP-HR in his or her sole and absolute discretion), which, for example, may require payment of principal to be made no more frequently than once per calendar year.
 
If the payment schedule elected by a Participant does not comply with the rules for payment schedules, (i) thirty percent (30%) of such Participants lump sum benefit shall be paid to the Participant upon the date that is six (6) months following the Participants Termination of Employment, and (ii) the remaining seventy percent (70%) shall be paid to the Participant on the third (3) anniversary of such Participants Termination of Employment.
rd
 
 
A Participant whose employment has not terminated may change a prior distribution election at any time on or before December 31, 2008, provided, however, if the Participants employment terminates for any reason in the calendar year in which the new distribution election is filed, such new election shall be null and void.  In the event the Participants new election is null and void, the Participants prior election, if any, shall apply.  If there is no prior election, the Plans default distribution provisions shall apply.
 
 
 
If a Participant who has commenced payment of his or her SERP benefit hereunder dies, his or her Beneficiary shall be entitled to receive the remaining SERP benefit in accordance with the Benefit Payout Alternative elected or deemed elected by the Participant.
 
 
If a Participant dies prior to his or her Termination of Employment, a pre-retirement death benefit will be calculated and paid as though the Participant had Retired  (determined without regard to the 5 Years of Service or the 4 Years of Participation requirements) on the day prior to the date of death.  The pre-retirement death benefit shall be paid at such time and in such form as timely elected or deemed elected by the Participant; provided, if the Participant elected or is deemed to have elected any form of an annuity, such pre-retirement death benefit shall be paid as a Beneficiary Life Annuity (as such term is hereinafter described) based on the life expectancy of the Beneficiary, and, if the Participant elected or is deemed to have elected a Life with a 10-Year Certain Benefit, such Beneficiary Life Annuity shall continue for the longer of (i) the Beneficiarys life, or (ii) the 10 year period commencing on the Participants death.  If paid as a Beneficiary Life Annuity, such benefit shall be the actuarially determined equivalent using the same reasonable actuarial assumptions and methods (as determined by the SEVP-HR in his or her complete and sole discretion) of the Life With 10-Year Certain Benefit that would have been paid to the Participant had he or she Retired on the day immediately prior to his or her death.  If the Participant had timely elected and qualified to receive a Lump Sum Benefit, it shall be calculated in the same manner as provided in Section as if the Participant were alive; e.g., calculated as of the Participant's death applying the Mortality Tables and the GAAP Rate, both as in effect for the calendar year immediately preceding the calendar year of the Participants death, but using the Participants age, Years of Service and other factors as of the Participants date of death.
4.2
 
 
Upon a Participant's Termination of Employment and contemporaneous qualification for receipt of long term disability benefits under an AT&T or AT&T affiliate sponsored long term disability benefit plan in which the Participant participates prior to being Retirement Eligible (without regard to the 5 Years of Service or 4 Years of Participation requirements), the Participant will continue to accrue Years of Service during such disability until the earliest of his or her:
 
 
 
 
Upon the occurrence of either (a) Participant's recovery from Disability prior to his or her Retirement Eligibility if Participant does not return to employment, or (b) Participant's Retirement (determined without regard to the 5 Years of Service or 4 Years of Participation requirements), the Participant shall be entitled to receive a SERP Benefit as if he or she realized a Termination of Employment as of the date of such occurrence.
 
For purposes of calculating the foregoing benefit, the Participant's Final Average Earnings shall be determined using his or her Earnings history as of the date of his or her Disability.
 
If a Participant who continues to have a Disability dies prior to his or her Retirement Eligibility (without regard to the 5 Years of Service or 4 Years of Participation requirements), the Participant will be treated in the same manner as if he or she had died while in employment (See Section ).
5.2
 
6.
 
.
Payment of Benefits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
All payments to be made under the Plan shall be made to the Participant during his or her lifetime, provided that if the Participant dies prior to the completion of such payments, then all subsequent payments under the Plan shall be made to the Participant's Beneficiary or Beneficiaries.
 
In the event of the death of a Participant, distributions/benefits under this Plan shall pass to the Beneficiary (ies) designated by the Participant in accordance with this Plan and the Rules.
 
 
No benefits shall be paid hereunder to the Participant or his or her Beneficiary except as specifically provided herein.
 
 
Notwithstanding any election made by the Participant, the SEVP-HR in his or her sole discretion may pay any benefit in the form of a lump sum payment if (A) the lump sum equivalent amount is or would be less than the applicable dollar amount under Code Section 402(g)(1)(B) when payment of such benefit would otherwise commence, and (B) the payment of the lump sum equivalent amount results in the termination and liquidation of the entirety of the Participants interest under the Plan and under any other plan that is considered a single nonqualified deferred compensation plan under Treasury Regulations Section 1.409A-1(c)(2).
 
7.
 
.
Conditions Related to Benefits
 
 
The Administrative Committee and the SEVP-HR with respect to specific functions identified in the Plan, shall be the sole administrators of the Plan and will, in their discretion, administer, interpret, construe and apply the Plan in accordance with its terms.  The Administrative Committee or the SEVP-HR shall further establish, adopt or revise such rules and regulations as each may deem necessary or advisable for the administration of the Plan.  The Administrative Committee shall serve as the Plans administrator within the meaning of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, and regulations thereunder (ERISA).  All decisions of the Administrative Committee or the SEVP-HR shall be final and binding unless the Board of Directors should determine otherwise.
 
 
Neither a Participant nor any other person shall acquire by reason of the Plan any right in or title to any assets, funds or property of any AT&T company whatsoever including, without limiting the generality of the foregoing, any specific funds or assets which AT&T, in its sole discretion, may set aside in anticipation of a liability hereunder, nor in or to any policy or policies of insurance on the life of a Participant owned by AT&T.  No trust shall be created in connection with or by the execution or adoption of this Plan or any Agreement, and any benefits which become payable hereunder shall be paid from the general assets of AT&T.  A Participant shall have only a contractual right to the amounts, if any, payable hereunder unsecured by any asset of AT&T.
 
 
AT&T shall be responsible for the payment of all benefits provided under the Plan.  At its discretion, AT&T may establish one or more trusts, for the purpose of providing for the payment of such benefits.  Such trust or trusts may be irrevocable, but the assets thereof shall be subject to the claims of AT&T's creditors.  To the extent any benefits provided under the Plan are actually paid from any such trust, AT&T shall have no further obligation with respect thereto, but to the extent not so paid, such benefits shall remain the obligation of, and shall be paid by AT&T.
 
 
Nothing herein shall constitute a contract of continuing employment or in any manner obligate any AT&T company to continue the service of a Participant, or obligate a Participant to continue in the service of any AT&T company and nothing herein shall be construed as fixing or regulating the compensation paid to a Participant.
 
 
This Plan may be modified or terminated at any time in accordance with the provisions of AT&T's Schedule of Authorizations.  A modification may affect present and future Participants, provided that any prospective amendment or restatement of the Plan shall not apply to any benefits accrued prior to such amendment or restatement.   AT&T also reserves the sole right to terminate at any time any or all Agreements.  In the event of termination of the Plan or of a Participant's Agreement, a Participant shall be entitled to benefits hereunder, if prior to the date of termination of the Plan or of his or her Agreement, such Participant has attained 5 Years of Service and, if applicable, 4 Years of Participation, in which case, regardless of the termination of the Plan/Participant's Agreement, such Participant shall be entitled to benefits at such time as provided in and as otherwise in accordance with the Plan and his or her Agreement, provided, however, a Participant's benefit shall be computed as if the Participant had realized a Termination of Employment as of the date of termination of the Plan or of his or her Agreement; provided further, however, a Participant's service subsequent to Plan/Agreement termination shall be recognized for purposes of reducing or eliminating the Age discount provided for by Section (d).  No amendment, including an amendment to this Section , shall be effective, without the written consent of a Participant, to alter, to the detriment of such Participant, the benefits described in this Plan as applicable to such Participant as of the effective date of such amendment.  For purposes of this Section , an alteration to the detriment of a Participant shall mean a reduction in the amount payable hereunder to a Participant to which such Participant would be entitled if such Participant realized a Termination of Employment at such time, or any change in the form of benefit payable hereunder to a Participant to which such Participant would be entitled if such Participant realized a Termination of Employment at such time.  Any amendment which reduces a Participant's benefit hereunder to adjust for a change in his or her pension benefit resulting from an amendment to any company-sponsored defined benefit pension plan which changes the pension benefits payable to all employees, shall not require the Participant's consent.  Written notice of any amendment shall be given to each Participant.
3.1
7.5
7.5
 
 
If at the time payments or installments of payments are to be made hereunder, a Participant or his or her Beneficiary or both are indebted to AT&T or any AT&T affiliate as a result of debt incurred in the ordinary course of the employment relationship between the Participant and the AT&T company, then, annually, up to $5,000 of the payments remaining to be made to the Participant or his or her Beneficiary or both, may, at the discretion of the SEVP-HR, be reduced by the amount of such indebtedness; provided, however, that the reduction must be made at the same time and in the same amount as the debt otherwise would have been due and collected from the Participant or his or her Beneficiary; provided, further, however, that an election by the Board of Directors not to reduce any such payment or payments shall not constitute a waiver of such AT&T company's claim for such indebtedness.
 
 
In the event of a change in the employment status of a Participant to a status in which he is no longer an Participant, the Participant shall immediately cease to be eligible for any benefits under this Plan except such benefits as had previously vested.  Only Participant's Years of Service and Earnings history prior to the change in his employment status shall be taken into account for purposes of determining Participant's vested benefits hereunder.
 
8.
 
.
Miscellaneous
 
 
Neither a Participant nor any other person shall have any right to commute, sell, assign, transfer, pledge, anticipate, mortgage or otherwise encumber, transfer, hypothecate or convey in advance of actual receipt of the amounts, if any, payable hereunder, or any part thereof, which are, and all rights to which are, expressly declared to be unassignable and non-transferable.  No part of the amounts payable shall, prior to actual payment, be subject to seizure or sequestration for the payment of any debts, judgments, alimony or separate maintenance owed by a Participant or any other person, nor be transferable by operation of law in the event of a Participant's or any other person's bankruptcy or insolvency.
 
 
AT&T would be unwilling to provide Plan benefits but for the loyalty conditions and covenants set forth in this Section 8.2, and the conditions and covenants herein are a material inducement to AT&Ts willingness to sponsor the Plan and to offer Plan benefits for the Participants on or after January 1, 2010.  Accordingly, as a condition of accruing and/or receiving any Plan benefits on or after January 1, 2010, each Participant is deemed to agree that he shall not, without obtaining the written consent of AT&T in advance, participate in activities that constitute engaging in competition with AT&T or engaging in conduct disloyal to AT&T, as those terms are defined in this Section 8.2.  Further, notwithstanding any other provision of this Plan, all benefits provided under the Plan with respect to a Participant shall be subject to the enforcement provisions of this Section 8.2 if the Participant, without the consent of AT&T, participates in an activity that constitutes engaging in competition with AT&T or engaging in conduct disloyal to AT&T, as so defined below.  Furthermore, for benefits accrued before January 1, 2010, the provisions of this Section 8.2 as in effect immediately before such date shall also be applicable to the Participants Plan benefits, with such provisions and those herein being each separately applicable and effective.
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Any notice required or permitted to be given to the Administrative Committee or the SEVP-HR under the Plan shall be sufficient if in writing and hand delivered, or sent by certified mail, to the principal office of AT&T, directed to the attention of the SEVP-HR.  Any notice required or permitted to be given to a Participant shall be sufficient if in writing and hand delivered, or sent by certified mail, to Participant at Participant's last known mailing address as reflected on the records of his or her employing company or the company from which the Participant incurred a Termination of Employment, as applicable.  Notice shall be deemed given as of the date of delivery or, if delivery is made by mail, as of the date shown on the postmark or on the receipt for certification.
 
 
In the event any provision of this Plan is held invalid, void or unenforceable, the same shall not affect, in any respect whatsoever, the validity of any other provision of this plan.
 
 
This Plan shall be governed and construed in accordance with ERISA, and the laws of the State of Texas to the extent not preempted by ERISA.
 
9.
 
.
Claims and Appeal
 
 
A person who believes that he or she is being denied a benefit to which he or she is entitled under this Plan (hereinafter referred to as a Claimant) may file a written request for such benefit with the Executive Compensation Administration Department, setting forth his or her claim. The request must be addressed to the AT&T Executive Compensation Department at its then principal place of business.
 
 
Upon receipt of a claim, the AT&T Executive Compensation Department shall review the claim and provide the Claimant with a written notice of its decision within a reasonable period of time, not to exceed ninety (90) days, after the claim is received. If the AT&T Executive Compensation Department determines that special circumstances require an extension of time beyond the initial ninety (90)-day claim review period, the AT&T Executive Compensation Department shall notify the Claimant in writing within the initial ninety (90)-day period and explain the special circumstances that require the extension and state the date by which the AT&T Executive Compensation Department expects to render its decision on the claim. If this notice is provided, the AT&T Executive Compensation Department may take up to an additional ninety (90) days (for a total of one hundred eighty (180) days after receipt of the claim) to render its decision on the claim.
 
If the claim is denied by the AT&T Executive Compensation Department, in whole or in part, the AT&T Executive Compensation Department shall provide a written decision using language calculated to be understood by the Claimant and setting forth:  (i) the specific reason or reasons for such denial; (ii) specific references to pertinent provisions of this Plan on which such denial is based; (iii) a description of any additional material or information necessary for the Claimant to perfect his or her claim and an explanation of why such material or such information is necessary; (iv) a description of the Plans procedures for review of denied claims and the steps to be taken if the Claimant wishes to submit the claim for review; (v) the time limits for requesting a review of a denied claim under Section 9.3 and for conducting the review under Section 9.4; and (vi) a statement of the Claimants right to bring a civil action under Section 502(a) of ERISA if the claim is denied following review under Section 9.4.
 
 
Within sixty (60) days after the receipt by the Claimant of the written decision on the claim provided for in Section 9.2, the Claimant may request in writing that the Administrative Committee review the determination of the AT&T Executive Compensation Department. Such request must be addressed to the Administrative Committee at the address for giving notice pursuant to Section 8.3. To assist the Claimant in deciding whether to request a review of a denied claim or in preparing a request for review of a denied claim, a Claimant shall be provided, upon written request to the Administrative Committee and free of charge, reasonable access to, and copies of, all documents, records and other information relevant to the claim. The Claimant or his or her duly authorized representative may, but need not, submit a statement of the issues and comments in writing, as well as other documents, records or other information relating to the claim for consideration by the Administrative Committee. If the Claimant does not request a review of the AT&T Executive Compensation Departments decision by the Administrative Committee within such sixty (60)-day period, the Claimant shall be barred and estopped from challenging the determination of the AT&T Executive Compensation Department.
 
 
. Within sixty (60) days after the Administrators receipt of a request for review, the Administrative Committee will review the decision of the AT&T Executive Compensation Department. If the Administrative Committee determines that special circumstances require an extension of time beyond the initial sixty (60)-day review period, the Administrative Committee shall notify the Claimant in writing within the initial sixty (60)-day period and explain the special circumstances that require the extension and state the date by which the Administrative Committee expects to render its decision on the review of the claim.  If this notice is provided, the Administrative Committee may take up to an additional sixty (60) days (for a total of one hundred twenty (120) days after receipt of the request for review) to render its decision on the review of the claim.
Review of Decision
 
During its review of the claim, the Administrative Committee shall:
 
 
 
 
After considering all materials presented by the Claimant, the Administrative Committee will render a decision, written in a manner designed to be understood by the Claimant. If the Administrative Committee denies the claim on review, the written decision will include (i) the specific reasons for the decision; (ii) specific references to the pertinent provisions of this Plan on which the decision is based; (iii) a statement that the Claimant is entitled to receive, upon request to the Administrative Committee and free of charge, reasonable access to, and copies of, all documents, records, and other information relevant to the claim; and (iv) a statement of the Claimants right to bring a civil action under Section 502(a) of ERISA.
 
The Administrative Committee shall serve as the final review committee under the Plan and shall have sole and complete discretionary authority to administer, interpret, construe and apply the Plan provisions, and determine all questions of administration, interpretation, construction, and application of the Plan, including questions and determinations of eligibility, entitlement to benefits and the type, form and amount of any payment of benefits, all in its sole and absolute discretion. The Committee shall further have the authority to determine all relevant facts and related issues, and all documents, records and other information relevant to a claim conclusively for all parties, and in accordance with the terms of the documents or instruments governing the Plan. Decisions by the Administrative Committee shall be conclusive and binding on all parties and not subject to further review.
 
In any case, a Participant or Beneficiary may have further rights under ERISA. The Plan provisions require that Participants or Beneficiary pursue all claim and appeal rights described in this Section 9 before they seek any other legal recourse regarding claims for benefits.  In any case, a Participant or Beneficiary may have further rights under ERISA. The Plan provisions require that Participants or Beneficiary pursue all claim and appeal rights described in this Section 9 before they seek any other legal recourse regarding claims for benefits.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Attachment A
This Lump Sum Distribution Agreement is made as of the ____ day of ______________, ____ by and between AT&T Inc. (AT&T or the Company) and _______________(Participant).  Unless otherwise indicated herein, capitalized words used herein shall have the same meaning ascribed to such words in the 2005 Supplemental Employee Retirement Plan (the Plan or SERP).
WHEREAS, Participant is a Participant in the Plan, which is sponsored by the Company;
 
WHEREAS, pursuant to the Plan, Participant executed an Agreement, governing Participants benefits in the Plan;
 
WHEREAS, Participants Agreement provides for the distribution of his benefits in the form of a lump sum, payable one hundred percent (100%) upon the six (6) month anniversary of his Termination of Employment provided that Participant is age sixty (60) or older as of the date of his Termination of Employment and Participant agrees not to compete with an Employer Business;
 
NOW, THEREFORE, the parties hereto, for good and valuable consideration, the sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, hereby agree as follows:
 
Participant hisbenefits under the Plan in the form of a lump sum distribution, one hundred percent (100%) of which shall be paid upon the six (6) month anniversary of Participants Termination of Employment.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
AT&T Inc.
 
By: Senior Executive Vice
President-Human Resources
208 S. Akard
Dallas, Texas  75202
Date                                                                      Date
 
 
 
Attachment B
Immediate Annuity Value of any AT&T or affiliate Qualified Pensions shall mean:
The annual amount of annuity payments that would be paid out of the qualified defined benefit pension plan sponsored by AT&T or an AT&T affiliate in which the Participant participates on a single life, level payment annuity basis assuming payment of such qualified defined benefit pension plan benefit commenced immediately upon the Participants Termination of Employment, notwithstanding the form of payment of such qualified defined benefit pension plans benefit actually made to the Participant (i.e., joint and survivor annuity, lump sum, etc.) and notwithstanding the actual commencement date of the payment of such qualified defined benefit pension plan benefit.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Attachment C
. "Immediate Annuity Value of SRIP" shall mean
Immediate Annuity Value of SRIP
 
An objectively determined amount as of December 31, 2008 equal to the annual amount of a level payment, single life with 10 year certain annuity benefit that would be paid to the Participant pursuant to the SRIP as it exists on December 31, 2008 assuming the Participant became eligible to receive a distribution of benefit payments under the SRIP on December 31, 2008, applying the Participants Final Average Earnings and Years of Service (both as defined in the SRIP) as of December 31, 2004 and the Participants age as of December 31, 2008, notwithstanding the form of payment of the SRIP benefit that would actually be made to the Participant (i.e., joint and survivor annuity, lump sum, etc.) and notwithstanding the actual commencement date of the payment of such SRIP benefit.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Attachment D
Attachment D to the AT&T 2005 Supplemental Employee Retirement Plan
 
.  "Immediate Annuity Value of any AT&T or AT&T affiliate Non-Qualified Pensions other than SERP" shall mean with respect to a Participant, any one or more of the following, as applicable:
Immediate Annuity Value of any AT&T or AT&T affiliate Non-Qualified Pensions other than SERP
 
1.           For a Participant who is a participant in (or otherwise has a benefit in) the AT&T Pension Benefit Make Up Plan No. 1  (PBMU No. 1), the AT&T Pension Benefit Make Up Plan No. 2 (PBMU No. 2), the AT&T Inc. Management Mid-Career Hire Plan (the Mid-Career Plan), the Cingular Wireless SBC Executive Transition Pension Make Up Plan (the Cingular Plan) and/or the Pacific Telesis Group Executive Supplemental Cash Balance Pension Plan (PTG Plan) and is a Participant in the Plan on December 31, 2008:
 
An objectively determined amount as of December 31, 2008 equal to the annual amount of a level payment, single life annuity benefit that would be paid to the Participant pursuant to the PBMU No. 1, the PBMU No. 2, the Mid-Career Plan, the Cingular Plan, and/or the PTG Plan, as applicable, as they exist on December 31, 2008 assuming the Participant became eligible to receive a distribution of benefit payments under the PBMU No. 1, the PBMU No. 2, the Mid-Career Plan, the Cingular Plan, and/or the PTG Plan, as applicable, on December 31, 2008, notwithstanding the form of payment of the benefit that would actually be made to the Participant pursuant to the PBMU No. 1, the PBMU No. 2, the Mid-Career Plan, the Cingular Plan, and/or the PTG Plan, (i.e., 10-year certain annuity, lump sum, etc.) and notwithstanding the actual commencement date of the payment of such PBMU No. 1, PBMU No. 2, the Mid-Career Plan, the Cingular Plan, and/or PTG Plan benefit.
 
2.           For a Participant who is a participant in (or otherwise has a benefit in) the PBMU No. 1, the PBMU No. 2, the Mid-Career Plan, the Cingular Plan, and/or the PTG Plan and has a SERP Effective Date after December 31, 2008:
 
An objectively determined amount as of the Participants SERP Effective Date equal to the annual amount of a level payment, single life annuity benefit that would be paid to the Participant pursuant to the PBMU No. 1, the PBMU No. 2, the Mid-Career Plan, the Cingular Plan, and/or the PTG Plan, as applicable, as they exist on the Participants SERP Effective Date assuming the Participant became eligible to receive a distribution of benefit payments under the PBMU No. 1, the PBMU No. 2, the Mid-Career Plan, the Cingular Plan, and/or the PTG Plan, on his or her SERP Effective Date, notwithstanding the form of payment of the benefit that would actually be made to the Participant pursuant to the PBMU No. 1, the PBMU No. 2, the Mid-Career Plan, the Cingular Plan, and/or the PTG Plan (i.e., 10-year certain annuity, lump sum, etc.) and notwithstanding the actual commencement date of the payment of such PBMU No. 1, PBMU No. 2, the Mid-Career Plan, the Cingular Plan, and/or PTG Plan benefit.
 
3.           For a Participant who is a participant in (or otherwise has a benefit in) the BellSouth Corporation Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (the BellSouth Plan) and is a Participant in the Plan on December 31, 2008:
 
An objectively determined amount as of December 31, 2008 equal to the annual amount of a level payment, single life annuity benefit that would be paid to the Participant pursuant to the BellSouth Plan as it exists on December 31, 2008 assuming the Participant became eligible to receive a distribution of benefit payments under the BellSouth Plan on December 31, 2008, but applying the Participants age and years of service as if the Participant remained employed through the fourth anniversary of his or her SERP Effective Date and the Participants Included Earnings (as defined in the BellSouth Plan) as of December 31, 2008, notwithstanding the form of payment of the BellSouth Plans benefit that would actually be made to the Participant (i.e., joint and survivor annuity, lump sum, etc.) and notwithstanding the actual commencement date of the payment of such BellSouth Plan benefit.
 
4.           For a Participant who is a participant in (or otherwise has a benefit in) the BellSouth Plan and has a SERP Effective Date after December 31, 2008:
 
An objectively determined amount as of the Participants SERP Effective Date equal to the annual amount of a level payment, single life annuity benefit that would be paid to the Participant pursuant to the BellSouth Plan as it exists on the Participants SERP Effective Date assuming the Participant became eligible to receive a distribution of benefit payments under the BellSouth Plan on his or her SERP Effective Date (applying the Participants age, years of service and Included Earnings (as defined in the BellSouth Plan) as of the Participants SERP Effective Date), notwithstanding the form of payment of the BellSouth Plans benefit that would actually be made to the Participant (i.e., joint and survivor annuity, lump sum, etc.) and notwithstanding the actual commencement date of the payment of such BellSouth Plan benefit.
 
5.           For a Participant who is a participant in (or otherwise has a benefit in) the AT&T Corp. Long Term Disability and Survivor Protection Plan (LTDSPP) and is entitled to a nonqualified defined benefit from the LTDSPP, the AT&T Corp. Excess Benefit and Compensation Plan, (Excess Plan), and/or the AT&T Corp. Non-Qualified Pension Plan (NQPP) and is a Participant in the Plan on December 31, 2008 (the Participants election as to the time and form of benefits under these plans is identical to such election under this Plan):
 
The benefit payments paid pursuant to the LTDSPP (nonqualified defined benefit only), Excess Plan, and/or the NQPP, as applicable, commencing at the actual time and pursuant to the actual form such benefit payments are made from the LTDSPP, Excess Plan, and/or the NQPP, as applicable.
 
6.           For a Participant who is a participant in (or otherwise has a benefit in) the LTDSPP and is entitled to a nonqualified defined benefit from the LTDSPP, the Excess Plan, and/or the NQPP and has a SERP Effective Date after December 31, 2008:
 
An objectively determined amount as of the Participants SERP Effective Date equal to the annual amount of a level payment, single life annuity benefit that would be paid to the Participant pursuant to the LTDSPP (nonqualified defined benefit only), the Excess Plan, and/or the NQPP, as applicable, as they exist on the Participants SERP Effective Date assuming the Participant became eligible to receive a distribution of benefit payments under the AT&T Corp. LTDSPP (nonqualified defined benefit only), the Excess Plan, and/or the NQPP, on his or her SERP Effective Date, notwithstanding the form of payment of the benefit that would actually be made to the Participant pursuant to the LTDSPP (nonqualified defined benefit only), the Excess Plan, and/or the NQPP (i.e., 10-year certain annuity, lump sum, etc.) and notwithstanding the actual commencement date of the payment of such the AT&T Corp. LTDSPP (nonqualified defined benefit only), the Excess Plan, and/or the NQPP benefit.
 
 
 
 
Attachment F
Attachment E applies with respect to any Participant who:
Upon Termination of Employment, such Participants Plan benefit shall equal the greater of his or her benefit determined in accordance with Section 3 of the Plan or this Attachment E.
A.           .  Solely for purposes of this Attachment E, the following words shall have the meanings as provided in this Attachment E.  Any other capitalized word, not otherwise defined in this Attachment E, shall have the meaning as provided in Section 2 of the Plan.
Definitions
B.           .  An Attachment E Participants benefit under this Attachment E shall be determined as follows:
Benefit Amount
The aggregate annualized benefit of each Attachment E Participant shall be determined by adding the sum of two percent (2%) of Included Earnings for each year of the Attachment E Participant's Vesting Service Credit for the first twenty years, plus one and one-half percent (1.5%) of Included Earnings for each year of the Attachment E Participant's Vesting Service Credit for the next ten years, plus one percent (1%) of Included Earnings for each year of the Attachment E Participant's Vesting Service Credit for each additional year up to the month in which the Attachment E Participant retires (1) 100% of the Primary Social Security benefit payable at age 65, (2) 100% of the retirement benefit (unreduced for survivor annuity) payable from the Pension Plan (as defined below), and (3) 100% of the benefit payable from the BellSouth Corporation Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (as defined below).
less
a.           The benefit reduction to be applied for the benefit payable from the Pension Plan shall be the amount of such benefit that would be payable on the date that benefits are eligible to be paid (or become payable) under the Plan, or, if earlier, March 1, 2011 (regardless of the Attachment E Participants actual pension commencement date under the Pension Plan) and determined assuming that the Attachment E Participant elected a single life annuity (regardless of the actual form of benefit elected under the Pension Plan).
The benefit reduction to be applied for the benefit payable from the BellSouth Corporation Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan shall be an objectively determined amount as of December 31, 2008 equal to the annual amount of a level payment, single life annuity benefit that would be paid to the Attachment E Participant pursuant to the BellSouth Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan as it exists on December 31, 2008 assuming the Attachment E Participant became eligible to receive a distribution of benefit payments under the BellSouth Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan on December 31, 2008, but applying the Attachment E Participants age and years of service as of March 1, 2011 and the Attachment E Participants Included Earnings as of December 31, 2008, notwithstanding the form of payment of the BellSouth Supplemental Executive Retirement Plans benefit that would actually be made to the Attachment E Participant (i.e., joint and survivor annuity, lump sum, etc.) and notwithstanding the actual commencement date of the payment of such BellSouth Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan benefit.
b.           The benefit amount determined in accordance with this Attachment E (expressed as an annuity) at the time of the Attachment E Participants Termination of Employment shall not be less than the benefit that would have been payable to the Attachment E Participant if the Attachment E Participant had a Termination of Employment on any prior December 31 (using pay, service, offsets and all factors applicable on the previous dates and assuming an immediate benefit commencement).
c.    The benefit amount determined in accordance with this Attachment E shall be reduced (before the offset for benefits under the Pension Plan) by one-quarter percent (0.25%) for each calendar month or part thereof by which the Attachment E Participants Termination of Employment precedes his or her 62nd birthday.
 
 
 
Attachment F
SPECIAL PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO NAMED PARTICIPANTS
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
Exhibit 10.2
 
AT&T believes in aligning the long-term interests of officers with those of stockholders. To further that goal and to serve as an example to employees throughout the company, the Human Resources Committee has adopted this Equity Retention and Hedging Policy (the Policy).
Retention of Awards
Until one year after termination of their employment with AT&T and its affiliates, each Executive Officer shall retain 25% (after taxes and exercise costs) of the shares of common stock acquired by such officer under an incentive, equity, or option award granted to them after January 1, 2012, other than shares acquired through a deferral plan.
This Policy applies to awards occurring after January 1, 2012, as follows:
Hedging of AT&T Stock
Our Executive Officers are prohibited from hedging their ownership of AT&T stock, including trading in publicly-traded options, puts, calls, or other derivative instruments related to AT&T stock.  This policy against hedging will also apply after termination of employment with respect to stock awards that are required to be retained for one year after termination of employment.
Stock Ownership Guidelines
Officer-level employees of AT&T shall hold a minimum number of AT&T shares as set forth in the table below.  Shares may be held directly, through a broker, or in a qualified or nonqualified deferral plan.  Qualifying ownership shall include shares held by a spouse; members of the immediate family sharing the same household; or a trust where the employee or family member is a beneficiary.
 
 
 
 


