FILE:DELL/DELL-8K-20041115161739.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
Table of Contents
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
          On November 11, 2004, Dell Inc. issued a press release announcing its financial results for its fiscal quarter ended October 29, 2004. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
          On November 11, 2004, following the issuance of the press release, Dell Inc. held a conference call and live webcast regarding its financial results for its fiscal quarter ended October 29, 2004. A transcript of the conference call is furnished as Exhibit 99.2 to this report. A copy of the web presentation accompanying the conference call is furnished as Exhibit 99.3 to this report.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
EXHIBIT 99.1
NEWS
T.R. Reid, Mike Maher (512) 728-7977, (512) 723-2575 tr_reid@dell.com mike_maher@dell.com
MEDIA CONTACTS:
Lynn A. Tyson, Robert Williams (512) 723-1130, (512) 728-7570 lynn_tyson@dell.com robert_williams@dell.com
INVESTOR CONTACTS:
 Record global product shipments, revenue, operating and net income, earnings per share and cash from operations made Dell's fiscal third-quarter 2005 the best reporting period in its history.
ROUND ROCK, Texas, Nov. 11, 2004
     Dell revenue increased 18 percent from the same quarter a year ago to $12.5 billion, led by continued strong growth of 27 percent in Europe, Middle East and Africa and 25 percent in Asia-Pacific and Japan. Growth in the United States was led by a 20-percent increase in spending by business customers.
     Earnings per share were 33 cents, up 27 percent, for the quarter ended Oct. 29.
     "The record quarter is testament to the company's superb team executing a better business model," said Kevin Rollins, Dell chief executive officer. "An improving component cost environment further favors Dell, with customers and shareholders the primary beneficiaries.
     "Dell's disciplined focus on profitable growth around the world and across businesses continues to differentiate us in the market. We've been doing that for years."
 
     According to Mr. Rollins, Dell's fourth-quarter product shipments should be about 20 percent higher than in the same year-ago period. Such growth is expected to produce quarterly revenue of about $13.5 billion, up 17 percent, and earnings per share of 36 cents, a 24-percent increase.
     In the third quarter, Dell's operating profit improved to 8.8 percent of revenue, the company's highest rate in four years. The company generated a record $1.8 billion in cash from operations, and total cash and investments rose to $12.4 billion. Dell spent $1.3 billion to repurchase 38 million shares of its common stock, bringing total shares repurchased year to date to 97 millionreducing weighted average shares outstanding by almost 3 percent for the year.
Dell Posts Strong Growth in All Global Regions
     Dell established an industry record for worldwide shipments, selling a combined eight million standards-based servers, notebook computers and desktop computers in the quarter. The company's shipment growth of 22 percenthighlighted by a 35-percent increase in notebook computer volumeswas double the rate of the industry excluding Dell.
     Third-quarter shipments in Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA) were up 31 percent, a 15-point premium to the rest of the market. Server shipments in the region increased 24 percent, earning Dell nearly two points of server market share for the quarter.
     In Asia-Pacific and Japan (APJ), company-shipment growth of 25 percent was nearly three times the rate of the market excluding Dell. Revenue from enterprise systems, including servers and storage, increased 27 percent.
 
     Dell also established an industry record for unit shipments in the U.S., surpassing five million systems in the quarter, and increased its market share by nearly two points to 33 percent. Among highlights in the Americas: revenue from small- and medium-sized businesses increased more than 23 percent, and revenue outside the U.S. was particularly strong, up 30 percent from the same year-ago period.
Servers, Printers, Services Highlight Product Leadership
     Dell's 19-percent year-over-year increase in worldwide server shipments enabled the company to close the gap with the category leader by more than two share points. In the U.S., the company expanded its No. 1 server position by nearly two points, to nearly 33 percent. A new Technology Business Review survey again firmly ranked Dell No. 1 in customer satisfaction for standards-based servers.
     Worldwide revenue from software and peripheral products increased 37 percent year-over-year. Strong customer demand has the company on track to exceed selling five million printers and generating more than $1 billion in imaging and printing revenue this year. During the third quarter, the company introduced its first generation of color laser printers for business and institutional customers, as well as two new printers with advanced digital photography features for consumers.
     Dell's enhanced-services business continued to grow strongly, with a year-over-year revenue increase of 32 percent. Combined enhanced-services revenue for EMEA and APJ grew almost 60 percent.
 
About Dell
     Dell Inc. (NASDAQ: DELL) is a premier provider of products and services required for customers worldwide to build their information-technology and Internet infrastructures. Company revenue for the past four quarters totaled $47.3 billion. Dell, through its direct business model, designs, manufactures and customizes products and services to customer requirements, and offers an extensive selection of software and peripherals. Information on Dell and its products can be obtained at www.dell.com.
Dell is a trademark of Dell Inc. Market comparisons based on IDC data. Dell disclaims any proprietary interest in the marks and names of others.
Special note: Statements in this press release that relate to future results and events (including statements about fiscal fourth-quarter financial and operating performance) are based on the company's current expectations. Actual results in future periods may differ materially from those currently expected or desired because of a number of risks and uncertainties, including general economic and business conditions; the level of demand for the company's products and services; the level and intensity of competition in the technology industry and the pricing pressures that have resulted; the company's ability to timely and effectively manage periodic product transitions, as well as component availability and cost; the company's ability to develop new products based on new or evolving technology and the market's acceptance of those products; the company's ability to manage its inventory levels to minimize excess inventory, declining inventory values and obsolescence; the product, customer and geographic sales mix of any particular period; the company's ability to effectively manage its operating costs; and the effect of armed hostilities, terrorism or public health issues on the economy generally, on the level of demand for the company's products and services and on the company's ability to manage its supply and delivery logistics in such an environment. Additional discussion of these and other factors affecting the company's business and prospects is contained in the company's periodic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Consolidated statements of income, financial position and cash flows follow.
 
Note: Percentage growth rates and ratios are calculated based on underlying data in thousands.
 
Note: Percentage growth rates and ratios are calculated based on underlying data in thousands.
 
Note: Ratios are calculated based on underlying data in thousands.
 

 
Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
EXHIBIT 99.3
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


