FILE:DELL/DELL-8K-20050202125556.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
Table of Contents
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Table of Contents
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
     On January 31, 2005, Robert W. Davis gave notice of his intention to resign as the company's Vice President, Corporate Finance, and Chief Accounting Officer, effective as of February 25, 2005. Mr. Davis plans to join Computer Associates International, Inc. as its Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer on or before March 1, 2005.
     On February 25, 2005, Joan S. Hooper will become the company's Chief Accounting Officer. Since joining Dell in November 2003, Ms. Hooper has served as Vice President, Finance, supporting Worldwide Operations finance, which includes manufacturing, procurement, product group, information technology and global financial services. Prior to joining Dell, she spent four years as Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, Secretary and Treasurer of FreeMarkets, Inc., then a global provider of online business sourcing software and services. In addition, Ms. Hooper spent more than 20 years with AT&T Corp., where she held several key financial and senior management positions. She holds a bachelor's degree in Finance from Creighton University, an M.B.A. from Northwestern University, and is both a Certified Public Accountant and a Certified Management Accountant. Ms. Hooper is 47 years of age.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.


