FILE:DELL/DELL-8K-20061114161939.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 8.01 Other Events.
     On November 14, 2006, Dell Inc. issued a press release announcing that it has acquired ACS (UK) Limited. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
Item 9.01 Financial Statement and Exhibits.
(c) Exhibits
99.1  Press Release issued by Dell Inc., dated November 14, 2006.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
NEWS
Paula Warmer, Rainer VonMielecki +44 (0) 1344 373925, +44 (0) 1344 372550 paula_warmer@dell.com rainer_vonmielecki@dell.com
MEDIA CONTACTS: For Dell:
Dell announced today it has acquired ACS, a UK-based IT services company, to provide business customers with infrastructure consulting and customised application services to help maximise their returns on IT investments.
BRACKNELL, 14 Nov. 2006 
     Terms of the purchase were not disclosed, but Dell said the acquisition was not material to its financial results.
     "ACS is a highly respected specialist in providing application management and deployment services, and infrastructure consulting. Our goal is to help customers derive maximum value from their IT infrastructure investments. This acquisition is part of that strategy along with very aggressive organic growth," said Stephen Murdoch, Vice President of Solutions & Services, Dell EMEA.
     "With the expertise we acquire with ACS, Dell extends its existing capabilities to support the full lifecycle of our customers' application deployments. By engaging earlier
 
in the planning phases, we can help ensure critical changes such as Microsoft migrations are well planned, designed and executed," Murdoch said.
Vista
     "Dell's global presence and outstanding customer relationships will enable us to introduce our services to a much wider market," said Eddie Young, Managing Director ACS (UK). "This gives our employees the opportunity to reach many more customers and broaden their skills and experiences as part of an industry leader. Our customers will get even more value from the leveraged strength of both companies."
     ACS' application services include a technical process called application packaging in which installation or "setup" routines are written, modified or enhanced to meet individual customer's needs. Since the packaging service can be centrally located, Dell will deliver this offering for customers worldwide as an integral part of its managed services portfolio. ACS' "best-of-class" infrastructure consulting capabilities are focused in the areas of virtualisation, security and Microsoft products, where Dell is experiencing significant customer demand.
     Dell plans to integrate ACS employees fully into its operations when the acquisition is finalised. For more information on Dell services, visit .
www.dell.com/services
About Dell
     Dell Inc. (NASDAQ: DELL) listens to customers and delivers innovative technology and services they trust and value. Uniquely enabled by its direct business model, Dell sells more systems globally than any computer company, placing it No. 25 on the Fortune 500. Company revenue for the past four quarters was $57.4 billion. For
 
more information, visit http://www.dell.com. To get Dell news direct, visit .
http://www.dell.com/RSS
About ACS
     ACS is a highly respected independent specialist in providing application management and deployment services, and infrastructure consulting. It was formed in 1990 by a former manager from IBM, and has a "blue chip" roster of UK Financial Services customers with an exceptional reputation for quality.


