FILE:DELL/DELL-8K-20070329165935.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Temporary Suspension of Trading Under Registrant's Employee Benefit Plans	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Temporary Suspension of Trading Under Registrant's Employee Benefit Plans
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
 Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
 Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
 Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
Item 5.04 Temporary Suspension of Trading Under Registrants Employee Benefit Plans.
(a) On March 29, 2007, Dell Inc. delivered a blackout notice to its directors and executive officers informing them of a temporary suspension of contributions to the Dell Stock Fund within the
Dell Inc. 401(k) Plan and the Dell Financial Services L.P. 401(k) Plan
, as a result of the anticipated delayed filing of the companys fiscal 2007 Annual Report on Form 10-K, and the resulting blackout restrictions imposed upon the companys directors and executive officers. Attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference is a copy of the blackout notice. The company provided the blackout notice to its directors and executive officers in accordance with Section 306(a) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and Rule 104 of t
he Securities and Exchange Commission's
Regulation BTR.
Item 8.01 Other Events.
On March 29, 2007, the company issued a press release announcing that the company will delay filing its fiscal 2007 Annual Report on Form 10-K pending completion of the previously announced internal investigation by the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.2 to this report.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
Exhibit 99.1  Blackout Notice dated March 29, 2007, as provided to directors and executive officers of  
Dell Inc.
Exhibit 99.2  Press Release issued by Dell Inc., dated March 29, 2007.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
As a result of todays announcement that Dell will not timely file its fiscal 2007 Annual Report on Form 10-K, commencing on April 3 participants in the Dell Inc. 401(k) Plan and the Dell Financial Services L.P. 401(k) Plan will be temporarily unable to make additional contributions to the Dell Stock Fund within those plans until such time as the company has filed all required periodic reports (Blackout Period).
 
During the Blackout Period, you may not, directly or indirectly, purchase, sell or otherwise acquire or transfer any Dell stock (including derivatives securities related to Dell stock).
This notice is being furnished pursuant to SEC Regulation BTR. It is being provided to you less than 15 days before the commencement of the Blackout Period due to the companys recent determination that it would be unable to timely file its Form 10-K, the timing of such determination being a circumstance beyond the reasonable control of the company.
If you have any questions regarding this notice or the restrictions applicable during the Blackout Period, please contact me.
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.2
 
 
 
MEDIA CONTACTS:
Bob Pearson, Dwayne Cox
(512) 728-3256, (512) 728-6236
bob_pearson@dell.com
,
dwayne_cox@dell.com
 
INVESTOR CONTACTS:
Lynn A. Tyson, Robert Williams
(512) 723-1130, (512) 728-7570
lynn_tyson@dell.com
,
robert_williams@dell.com
DELL WILL DELAY FORM 10-K FILING PENDING COMPLETION OF INVESTIGATION
ROUND ROCK, Texas, March 29, 2007 
Dell announced today that it will delay the filing of the Form 10-K for its fiscal year ended February 2, 2007 beyond the prescribed due date of April 3, 2007 and the subsequent extension date of April 18, 2007. As previously announced, the Audit Committee of the companys Board of Directors is conducting an independent investigation into certain accounting and financial reporting matters. The company will delay the 10-K filing because that investigation has not been completed. As we move toward the conclusion of our investigation, we are committing the time and resources required to ensure a thorough and comprehensive review and resolution of all identified issues and the implementation of appropriate remedial measures, said Thomas W. Luce III, chair of Dells Audit Committee.
The Audit Committees investigation has identified a number of accounting errors, evidence of misconduct, and deficiencies in the financial control environment. The Audit Committee is working with management and the companys independent auditors to determine whether the accounting errors necessitate any restatements of prior period financial statements, and to assess whether the control deficiencies constitute a material weakness in Dells internal control over financial reporting.
Management continues to be committed to resolving the issues raised in connection with the investigation, and regaining compliance with all SEC filing requirements and all NASDAQ listing requirements, as soon as possible.
About Dell
Dell Inc. (NASDAQ: DELL) listens to customers and delivers innovative technology and services they trust and value. Uniquely enabled by its direct business model, Dell is a leading global systems and services company and No. 25 on the Fortune 500. For more information, visit
www.dell.com
. To get Dell news direct, visit
www.dell.com/RSS
.
Special Note
Statements in this press release that relate to future results and events are forward-looking statements based on Dell's current expectations. Actual results may differ materially from those estimated in these forward-looking statements because of a number of risks and uncertainties, including: general economic, business and industry conditions; the level and intensity of competition in the technology industry and the pricing pressures that have resulted; the outcome of the ongoing investigations into certain accounting and financial reporting matters that could result in management's determination that restatements of the company's prior period financial statements are required, or management's conclusion that there is a material weakness in the company's internal controls over financial reporting and that disclosure controls and procedures are not effective; Dell's failure to meet NASDAQ requirements for continued listing as a result of its delinquent periodic report filings; litigation and governmental investigations or proceedings arising out of or related to accounting and financial reporting matters, or any restatement of Dell's financial statements; local economic and labor conditions, political instability, unexpected regulatory changes, trade protection measures, tax laws, copyright levies and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; the ability to accurately predict product, customer and geographic sales mix; the ability to timely and effectively manage periodic product transitions; reliance on third-party suppliers for product components, including dependence on several single-source supplier relationships; the ability to effectively manage operating costs; the ability to attract and retain qualified personnel; the level of demand for the products and services Dell offers; the ability to manage inventory levels to minimize excess inventory, declining inventory values and obsolescence; and the effect of armed hostilities, terrorism, natural disasters and public health issues on the economy generally, on the level of demand for Dell's products and services and on Dell's ability to manage its supply and delivery logistics in such an environment. Additional discussion of these and other factors affecting Dell's business and prospects is contained in Dell's periodic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.


