FILE:DELL/DELL-8K-20070312183538.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
Item 5.03 Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
Exhibit 3.1
 
 
 
 
     The registered office of the Corporation required by the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware to be maintained in the State of Delaware shall be the registered office named in the original Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation, or such other office as may be designated from time to time by the Board of Directors in the manner provided by law. Should the Corporation maintain a principal office within the State of Delaware such registered office need not be identical to such principal office of the Corporation.
Section 1. Registered Office.
     The Corporation may also have offices at such other places both within and without the State of Delaware as the Board of Directors may from time to time determine or the business of the Corporation may require.
Section 2. Other Offices.
     All meetings of the stockholders shall be held at the principal office of the Corporation, or, if the meeting is called by the Chairman of the Board, or by a majority of the Board of Directors, at the principal office of the Corporation or at such other place within or without the State of Delaware as shall be specified or fixed in the notices or waivers of notice thereof.
Section 1. Place of Meetings.
     Unless otherwise required by law or provided in the Certificate of Incorporation or these bylaws, the presence, in person or represented by proxy, of the holders of a majority of the voting power of the shares of capital stock of the Corporation entitled to vote on any matter shall constitute a quorum for the purpose of considering such matter at a meeting of the stockholders.
Section 2. Quorum; Adjournment and Postponement of Meetings; Vote Required.
     If a meeting of stockholders cannot be organized because a quorum has not attended, the stockholders entitled to vote thereat, present in person or represented by proxy, shall have the power to adjourn such meeting from time to time, without notice
 
other than announcement at the meeting at which the adjournment is taken of the time and place of the adjourned meeting, until a quorum shall be present and represented. Furthermore, after a meeting has been duly organized, the chairman of the meeting or the holders of a majority of the voting power of the shares of capital stock of the Corporation present in person or represented by proxy at the meeting shall have the power to adjourn the meeting from time to time, without notice other than announcement at the meeting at which the adjournment is taken of the time and place of the adjourned meeting. When a meeting is adjourned to another time or place, notice need not be given of the adjourned meeting if the time and place thereof are announced at the meeting at which the adjournment is taken. If the adjournment is for more than thirty (30) days, or if after the adjournment a new record date is fixed for the adjourned meeting, a notice of the adjourned meeting shall be given to each stockholder of record entitled to vote at such meeting. At any adjourned meeting at which a quorum shall be present or represented, the Corporation may transact any business which might have been transacted at the original meeting. The stockholders present at a duly organized meeting may continue to transact business until adjournment, notwithstanding the withdrawal from the meeting of a sufficient number of stockholders such that the number of stockholders that continue to be present or represented by proxy at the meeting is less than a quorum. Any previously scheduled meeting of stockholders may be postponed by resolution of the Board of Directors upon public notice given prior to the date previously scheduled for such meeting of stockholders.
     Unless otherwise required by law or provided in the Certificate of Incorporation or these bylaws, the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the voting power of the shares of capital stock of the Corporation present in person or represented by proxy at the meeting and entitled to vote on the subject matter shall be the act of the stockholders.
     An annual meeting of the stockholders shall be held for the election of directors on such date in each year and at such time as shall be designated by the Board of Directors. An annual meeting shall be held at such place, within or without the State of Delaware, as shall be determined by the Board of Directors. At each annual meeting, the stockholders shall elect the directors of the Corporation by the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the voting power of the shares of capital stock of the Corporation present in person or represented by proxy at the meeting and entitled to vote for the election of directors; provided that if the number of nominees exceeds the number of directors to be elected, the stockholders shall instead elect the directors by plurality vote. The stockholders shall also transact such other business as may be properly brought before the meeting. A failure to hold the annual meeting at the designated time or to elect a sufficient number of directors to conduct the business of the Corporation shall not affect otherwise valid corporate acts or work a forfeiture or dissolution of the Corporation, except as otherwise required by law.
Section 3. Annual Meetings.
     Unless otherwise provided in the Certificate of Incorporation, special meetings of the stockholders for any purpose or purposes may be called at any time by the Chairman of the Board (if any), or by a majority of the Board of Directors, and shall be called by the Chief Executive Officer, the President or the
Section 4. Special Meetings.
 
Secretary upon the written request therefor, stating the purpose or purposes of the meeting, delivered to such officer, signed by the holders of at least fifty percent (50%) of the issued and outstanding stock entitled to vote at such meeting.
     For the purpose of determining stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at any meeting of stockholders, or any adjournment thereof, or entitled to express consent to corporate action in writing without a meeting, or entitled to receive payment of any dividend or other distribution or allotment of any rights, or entitled to exercise any rights in respect of any change, conversion or exchange of stock or for the purpose of any other lawful action, the Board of Directors of the Corporation may fix, in advance, a date as the record date for any such determination of stockholders, which date shall not be more than sixty (60) days nor less than ten (10) days before the date of such meeting, nor more than sixty (60) days prior to any other action. If the Board of Directors does not fix a record date for any meeting of the stockholders, the record date for determining stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at such meeting shall be at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which notice is given, or, if in accordance with Article VIII, Section 3 of these bylaws notice is waived, at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which the meeting is held. If, in accordance with Section 12 of this Article II, corporate action without a meeting of stockholders is to be taken, the record date for determining stockholders entitled to express consent to such corporate action in writing, when no prior action by the Board of Directors is necessary, shall be the day on which the first written consent is expressed. The record date for determining stockholders for any other purpose shall be at the close of business on the day on which the Board of Directors adopts the resolution relating thereto.
Section 5. Record Date.
     A determination of stockholders of record entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall apply to any adjournment of the meeting; provided, however, that the Board of Directors may fix a new record date for the adjourned meeting.
     Written notice of the place, date and hour of all meetings, and, in case of a special meeting, the purpose or purposes for which the meeting is called, shall be given by or at the direction of the Chairman of the Board (if any) or the President, the Secretary or the other person(s) calling the meeting to each stockholder entitled to vote thereat not less than ten (10) nor more than sixty (60) days before the date of the meeting. Such notice may be delivered either personally or by mail. If mailed, notice is given when deposited in the United States mail, postage prepaid, directed to the stockholder at his address as it appears on the records of the Corporation.
Section 6. Notice of Meetings.
     A complete list of stockholders entitled to vote at any meeting of stockholders, arranged in alphabetical order for each class of stock and showing the address of each such stockholder and the number of shares registered in the name of such stockholder, shall be open to the examination of any stockholder, for any purpose germane to the meeting, during ordinary business hours, for a period of at least ten (10) days prior to the meeting, either at a place within the city where the meeting is to be held, which place shall be specified in the notice of the meeting, or if not so specified,
Section 7. Stock List.
 
at the place where the meeting is to be held. The stock list shall also be produced and kept at the time and place of the meeting during the whole time thereof, and may be inspected by any stockholder who is present.
     Each stockholder entitled to vote at a meeting of stockholders or to express consent or dissent to a corporate action in writing without a meeting may authorize another person or persons to act for him by proxy. Proxies for use at any meeting of stockholders shall be filed with the Secretary, or such other officer as the Board of Directors may from time to time determine by resolution, before or at the time of the meeting. All proxies shall be received and taken charge of and all ballots shall be received and canvassed by the secretary of the meeting who shall decide all questions touching upon the qualification of voters, the validity of the proxies, and the acceptance or rejection of votes, unless an inspector or inspectors shall have been appointed by the chairman of the meeting, in which event such inspector or inspectors shall decide all such questions.
Section 8. Proxies.
     No proxy shall be valid after three (3) years from its date, unless the proxy provides for a longer period. Each proxy shall be revocable unless expressly provided therein to be irrevocable and coupled with an interest sufficient in law to support an irrevocable power.
     Should a proxy designate two or more persons to act as proxies, unless such instrument provides to the contrary a majority of such persons present at any meeting at which their powers thereunder are to be exercised shall have and may exercise all the powers of voting or giving consents thereby conferred, or if only one be present, then such powers may be exercised by that one; or, if an even number attend and a majority do not agree on any particular issue, each proxy so attending shall be entitled to exercise such powers in respect of the same portion of the shares as he is of the proxies representing such shares.
     Unless otherwise required by law or provided in the Certificate of Incorporation, each stockholder shall have one vote for each share of stock entitled to vote which is registered in his name on the record date for the meeting. Shares registered in the name of another corporation, domestic or foreign, may be voted by such officer, agent or proxy as the bylaw (or comparable instrument) of such corporation may prescribe, or in the absence of such provision, as the Board of Directors (or comparable body) of such corporation may determine. Shares registered in the name of a deceased person may be voted by his executor or administrator, either in person or by proxy.
Section 9. Voting; Elections; Inspectors.
     All voting, except as required by the Certificate of Incorporation or where otherwise required by law, may be by a voice vote; provided, however, that upon demand therefor by stockholders holding a majority of the issued and outstanding stock present in person or by proxy at any meeting a stock vote shall be taken. Every stock vote shall be taken by written ballots, each of which shall state the name of the stockholder or proxy voting and such other information as may be required under the procedure established for the
 
meeting. All elections of directors shall be by ballot, unless otherwise provided in the Certificate of Incorporation. The chairman of the meeting shall fix and announce at the meeting the date and time of the opening and the closing of the polls for each matter upon which the stockholders will vote at the meeting.
     At any meeting at which a vote is taken by ballots, the chairman of the meeting may appoint one or more inspectors, each of whom shall subscribe an oath or affirmation to execute faithfully the duties of inspector at such meeting with strict impartiality and according to the best of his ability. Such inspector shall receive the ballots, count the votes and make and sign a certificate of the result thereof. The chairman of the meeting may appoint any person to serve as inspector, except no candidate for the office of director shall be appointed as an inspector. Unless otherwise provided in the Certificate of Incorporation, cumulative voting for the election of directors shall be prohibited.
     Unless otherwise determined by resolution of the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board shall, or shall designate an appropriate officer of the Corporation to, call any annual or special meeting of stockholders to order, act as chairman of any such meeting and determine the rules of order and procedure to be followed in the conduct of any such meeting. The Secretary or an Assistant Secretary (if the Secretary is absent, is otherwise unable to act or delegates such duties to such Assistant Secretary) shall act as secretary of each meeting of stockholders.
Section 10. Conduct of Meetings.
     The Corporation shall not vote, directly or indirectly, shares of its own stock owned by it and such shares shall not be counted for quorum purposes.
Section 11. Treasury Stock.
     Any action required or permitted to be taken by the stockholders of the Corporation must be effected at a duly called annual or special meeting of such holders and may not be effected by any consent in writing by such holders.
Section 12. Action Without Meeting.
     The business and affairs of the Corporation shall be managed by or under the direction of the Board of Directors, and subject to the restrictions imposed by law or the Certificate of Incorporation, they may exercise all the powers of the Corporation.
Section 1. Power; Number; Term of Office.
     The number of directors which shall constitute the whole Board of Directors shall be determined from time to time by resolution of the Board of Directors (provided that no decrease in the number of directors which would have the effect of shortening the term of an incumbent director may be made by the Board of Directors). If the Board of Directors makes no such determination, the number of directors shall be the number set forth in the
 
Certificate of Incorporation. Each director shall hold office for the term for which he is elected, and until his successor shall have been elected and qualified or until his earlier death, resignation or removal.
     Unless otherwise provided in the Certificate of Incorporation, directors need not be stockholders nor residents of the State of Delaware.
     Unless otherwise provided in the Certificate of Incorporation, a majority of the total number of directors shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business of the Board of Directors and the vote of a majority of the directors present at a meeting at which a quorum is present shall be the act of the Board of Directors.
Section 2. Quorum.
     The directors may hold their meetings and may have an office and keep the books of the Corporation, except as otherwise provided by law, in such place or places, within or without the State of Delaware, as the Board of Directors may from time to time determine by resolution. At all meetings of the Board of Directors, business shall be transacted in such order as shall from time to time be determined by the Chairman of the Board (if any), or by resolution of the Board of Directors.
Section 3. Place of Meeting; Order of Business.
     Each newly elected Board of Directors may hold its first meeting for the purpose of organization and the transaction of business, if a quorum is present, immediately after and at the same place as the annual meeting of the stockholders. Notice of such meeting shall not be required. At the first meeting of the Board of Directors in each year at which a quorum shall be present, held next after the annual meeting of stockholders, the Board of Directors shall proceed to the election of the officers of the Corporation.
Section 4. First Meeting.
     Regular meetings of the Board of Directors shall be held at such times and places as shall be designated from time to time by resolution of the Board of Directors. Notice of such regular meetings shall not be required.
Section 5. Regular Meetings.
     Special Meetings of the Board of Directors may called by the Chairman of the Board (if any), or, on the written request of any two directors, by the Secretary, in each case upon the giving of personal, written, telephone, telegraphic, or facsimile notice to each director. Such notice, or any waiver thereof pursuant to Article VIII, Section 3 hereof, need not state the purpose or purposes of such meeting, except as may otherwise be required by law or provided for in the Certificate of Incorporation or these bylaws.
Section 6. Special Meetings.
     Any director or the entire Board of Directors may be removed, but only for cause, by a vote of the holders of a majority of the shares then issued and outstanding. Cause shall mean willful and gross misconduct by the director that is materially adverse to the best interests of the Corporation, as determined conclusively by a majority of the disinterested directors of the Corporation.
Section 7. Removal.
 
     Unless otherwise provided in the Certificate of Incorporation, vacancies and newly created directorships resulting from any increase in the authorized number of directors may be filled by a majority of the directors then in office, although less than a quorum, or a sole remaining director; and any director so chosen shall hold office until the next annual election and until his successor shall be duly elected and shall qualify, unless sooner displaced.
Section 8. Vacancies; Increases in the Number of Directors.
     If the directors of the Corporation are divided into classes, any directors elected to fill vacancies or newly created directorships shall hold office until the next election of the class for which such directors shall have been chosen, and until their successors shall be duly elected and shall qualify.
     Unless otherwise restricted by the Certificate of Incorporation, the Board of Directors shall have the authority to fix the compensation of directors.
Section 9. Compensation.
     Unless otherwise restricted by the Certificate of Incorporation, any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of the Board of Directors, or any committee designated by the Board of Directors, may be taken without a meeting if all members of the Board of Directors or committee, as the case may be, consent thereto in writing, and the writing or writings are filed with the minutes of proceedings of the Board of Directors or committee. Such consent shall have the same force and effect as a unanimous vote at a meeting, and may be stated as such in any document or instrument filed with the Secretary of State of Delaware.
Section 10. Action Without a Meeting; Telephone Conference Meeting.
     Unless otherwise restricted by the Certificate of Incorporation, subject to the requirement for notice of meetings, members of the Board of Directors, or members of any committee designated by the Board of Directors, may participate in a meeting of such Board of Directors or committee, as the case may be, by means of a conference telephone or similar communications equipment by means of which all persons participating in the meeting can hear each other, and participation in such a meeting shall constitute presence in person at such meeting, except where a person participates in the meeting for the express purpose of objecting to the transaction of any business on the ground that the meeting is not lawfully called or convened.
     The Board of Directors in its discretion may submit any act or contract for approval or ratification at any annual meeting of the stockholders, or at any special meeting of the stockholders called for the purpose of considering any such act or contract, and any act or contract that shall be approved or be ratified by the vote of the stockholders holding a majority of the issued and outstanding shares of stock of the Corporation entitled to vote and present in person or by proxy at such meeting (provided that a quorum is present), shall be as valid and as binding upon the Corporation and upon all the stockholders as if it
Section 11. Approval or Ratification of Acts or Contract by Stockholders.
 
has been approved or ratified by every stockholder of the Corporation. In addition, any such act or contract may be approved or ratified by the written consent of stockholders holding a majority of the issued and outstanding shares of capital stock of the Corporation entitled to vote and such consent shall be as valid and as binding upon the Corporation and upon all the stockholders as if it had been approved or ratified by every stockholder of the Corporation.
     Subject to the rights of holders of any class or series of stock having a preference over the Common Stock as to dividends or upon liquidation, nominations for the election of Directors may be made by the Board of Directors or any Nominating Committee appointed by the Board of Directors or by any stockholder entitled to vote in the election of Directors generally. However, any stockholder generally entitled to vote in the election of Directors may nominate one or more persons for election as Directors at a meeting only if written notice of such stockholder's intent to make such nomination or nominations has been given, either by personal delivery or by United States mail, postage prepaid, to the Secretary of the Corporation not later than (i) with respect to an election to be held at an annual meeting of stockholders, 60 days in advance of such meeting, and (ii) with respect to an election to be held at a special meeting of stockholders for the election of Directors, the close of business on the seventh day following the date on which notice of such meeting is first given to stockholders. Each such notice shall set forth: (a) the name and address of the stockholder who intends to make the nomination and of the person or persons to be nominated; (b) a representation that the stockholder is a holder of record of stock of the Corporation entitled to vote at such meeting and intends to appear in person or by proxy at the meeting to nominate the person or persons specified in the notice; (c) a description of all arrangements or understandings between the stockholder, each nominee or any other person or persons (naming such person or persons) pursuant to which the nomination or nominations are to be made by the stockholder; (d) such other information regarding each nominee proposed by such stockholder as would be required to be included in a proxy statement filed pursuant to the proxy rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission, had the nominee been nominated, or intended to be nominated, by the Board of Directors; and (e) the consent of each nominee to serve as a Director of the Corporation if so elected. At the request of the Board of Directors any person nominated by the Board of Directors for election as a Director shall furnish to the Secretary of the Corporation that information required to be set forth in a stockholder's notice of nomination which pertains to the nominee. No person shall be eligible for election as a Director of the Corporation unless nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth herein. A majority of the Board of Directors may reject any nomination by a stockholder not timely made or otherwise not in accordance with the terms of this Section 12. If a majority of the Board of Directors reasonably determines that the information provided in a stockholder's notice does not satisfy the informational requirements of this Section 12 in any material respect, the Secretary of the Corporation shall promptly notify such stockholder of the deficiency in writing. The stockholder shall have an opportunity to cure the deficiency by providing additional information to the Secretary within such period of time, not to exceed ten days from the date such deficiency notice is given to the stockholder, as a majority of the Board of
Section 12. Nomination of Directors; Stockholder Business at Annual Meetings.
 
Directors shall reasonably determine. If the deficiency is not cured within such period, or if a majority of the Board of Directors reasonably determines that the additional information provided by the stockholder, together with the information previously provided, does not satisfy the requirements of this Section 12 in any material respect, then a majority of the Board of Directors may reject such stockholder's nomination. The Secretary of the Corporation shall notify a stockholder in writing whether the stockholder's nomination has been made in accordance with the time and information requirements of this Section 12.
     At an annual meeting of the stockholders only such business shall be conducted as shall have been brought before the meeting (a) by or at the direction of the chairman of the meeting or (b) by any stockholder of the Corporation who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 12. For business to be properly brought before an annual meeting by a stockholder, the stockholder must have given timely notice thereof in writing to the Secretary of the Corporation. To be timely, a stockholder's notice must be delivered to or mailed and received at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not less than 60 days prior to the meeting; provided, however that in the event that less than 70 days notice or prior public disclosure of the date of the meeting is given or made to stockholders, notice by the stockholder to be timely must be received not later than the close of business on the tenth day following the earlier of the day on which such notice of the date of the annual meeting was mailed or such public disclosure was made. A stockholder's notice to the Secretary shall set forth as to each matter the stockholder proposes to bring before the annual meeting (a) a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the annual meeting and the reasons for conducting such business at the annual meeting, (b) the name and address, as they appear on the Corporation's books, of the stockholder proposing such business, (c) the class and number of shares of the Corporation which are beneficially owned by the stockholder and (d) any material direct or indirect interest, financial or otherwise of the stockholder or its affiliates or associates in such business. The Board of Directors may reject any stockholder proposal not timely made in accordance with this Section 12. If the Board of Directors determines that the information provided in a stockholder's notice does not satisfy the informational requirements hereof, the Secretary of the Corporation shall promptly notify such stockholder of the deficiency in the notice. The stockholder shall then have an opportunity to cure the deficiency by providing additional information to the Secretary within such period of time, not to exceed ten days from the date such deficiency notice is given to the stockholder, as the Board of Directors shall determine. If the deficiency is not cured within such period, or if the Board of Directors determines that the additional information provided by the stockholder, together with the information previously provided, does not satisfy the requirements of this Section 12, then the Board of Directors may reject such stockholder's proposal. The Secretary of the Corporation shall notify a stockholder in writing whether the stockholder's proposal has been made in accordance with the time and information requirements hereof.
     This provision shall not prevent the consideration and approval or disapproval at an annual meeting of reports of officers, directors and committees of the Board of Directors, but in connection therewith no new business shall be acted upon at any such meeting unless stated, filed and received as herein provided. Notwithstanding anything
 
in these bylaws to the contrary, no business shall be conducted at an annual meeting except in accordance with procedures set forth in this Section 12.
     The Board of Directors may, by resolution passed by a majority of the whole board, designate one or more committees, including, if they shall so determine, an executive committee, each such committee to consist of one or more of the directors of the Corporation and the Board of Directors shall designate the chairman of such committee. Any such designated committee shall have and may exercise such of the powers and authority of the Board of Directors in the management of the business and affairs of the Corporation as may be provided in such resolution, except that no such committee shall have the power or authority of the Board of Directors in reference to amending the Certificate of Incorporation, adopting an agreement of merger or consolidation, recommending to the stockholders the sale, lease or exchange of all or substantially all of the Corporation's property and assets, recommending to the stockholders a dissolution of the Corporation or a revocation of a dissolution of the Corporation, or amending, altering or repealing the bylaws or adopting new bylaws for the Corporation and, unless such resolution or the Certificate of Incorporation expressly so provides, no such committee shall have the power or authority to declare a dividend or to authorize the issuance of stock. Any such designated committee may authorize the seal of the Corporation to be affixed to all papers which may require it. In addition to the above such committee or committees shall have such other powers and limitations of authority as may be determined from time to time by resolution adopted by the Board of Directors.
Section 1. Designation; Powers.
     Any committee designated pursuant to Section 1 of this Article shall keep regular minutes of its proceedings and report the same to the Board of Directors when requested, shall fix its own rules or procedures, and shall meet at such times and at such place or places as may be provided by such rules, or by resolution of the such committee or resolution of the Board of Directors. At every meeting of any such committee, the presence of a majority of all the members thereof shall constitute a quorum and the affirmative vote of a majority of the members present shall be necessary for the adoption by it of any resolution.
Section 2. Procedure; Meetings; Quorum.
     The Board of Directors may designate one or more directors as alternate members of any committee, who may replace any absent or disqualified member at any meeting of such committee. In the absence or disqualification of a member of a committee, the member or members present at any meeting and not disqualified from voting, whether or not constituting a quorum, may unanimously appoint another member of the Board of Directors to act at the meeting in the place of the absent or disqualified member.
Section 3. Substitution of Members.
 
     The officers of the Corporation shall be a Chief Executive Officer, President, one or more Vice Presidents (any one or more of whom may be designated Executive Vice President or Senior Vice President), a Treasurer, a Secretary and, if the Board of Directors so elects, a Chairman of the Board and such other officers as the Board of Directors may from time to time elect or appoint. Each officer shall hold office until his successor shall be duly elected and shall qualify or until his death or until he shall resign or shall have been removed in the manner hereinafter provided. Any number of offices may he held by the same person, unless the Certificate of Incorporation provides otherwise. Except for the Chairman of the Board, if any, no officer need be a director.
Section 1. Number, Titles and Term of Office.
     The salaries or other compensation of the officers and agents of the Corporation shall be fixed from time to time by the Board of Directors.
Section 2. Salaries.
     Any officer or agent elected or appointed by the Board of Directors may be removed, either with or without cause, by the vote of a majority of the whole Board of Directors at a special meeting called for the purpose, or at any regular meeting of the Board of Directors, provided the notice for such meeting shall specify that the matter of any such proposed removal will be considered at the meeting but such removal shall be without prejudice to the contract rights, if any, of the person so removed. Election or appointment of an officer or agent shall not of itself create contract rights.
Section 3. Removal.
     Any vacancy occurring in any office of the Corporation may be filled by the Board of Directors.
Section 4. Vacancies.
     The Chairman of the Board shall be the chief executive officer of the Corporation unless the Board of Directors designates the President as chief executive officer. Subject to the control of the Board of Directors and the executive committee (if any), the chief executive officer shall have general executive charge, management and control of the properties, business and operations of the Corporation with all such powers as may be reasonably incident to such responsibilities; he may agree upon and execute all leases, contracts, evidences of indebtedness and other obligations in the name of the Corporation and may sign all certificates for shares of capital stock of the Corporation; and shall have such other powers and duties as designated in accordance with these bylaws and as from time to time may be assigned to him by the Board of Directors.
Section 5. Powers and Duties of the Chief Executive Officer.
     If elected, the Chairman of the Board shall preside at all meetings of the stockholders and of the Board of Directors; and he shall have such other powers and duties as designated in these bylaws and as from time to time may be assigned to him by the Board of Directors.
Section 6. Powers and Duties of the Chairman of the Board.
 
     Unless the Board of Directors otherwise determines, the President shall have the authority to agree upon and execute all leases, contracts, evidences of indebtedness and other obligations in the name of the Corporation; and, unless the Board of Directors otherwise determines, he shall, in the absence of the Chairman of the Board and the Chief Executive Officer or if there be no Chairman of the Board or Chief Executive Officer, preside at all meetings of the stockholders and (should he be a director) of the Board of Directors; and he shall have such other powers and duties as designated in accordance with these bylaws and as from time to time may be assigned to him by the Board of Directors.
Section 7. Powers and Duties of the President.
     The Vice Presidents shall perform such duties and have such other powers as the Board of Directors may from time to time prescribe.
Section 8. Vice Presidents.
     The Treasurer shall have responsibility for the custody and control of all the funds and securities of the Corporation, and he shall have such other powers and duties as designated in these bylaws and as from time to time may be assigned to him by the Board of Directors. He shall perform all acts incident to the position of Treasurer, subject to the control of the chief executive officer and the Board of Directors; and he shall, if required by the Board of Directors, give such bond for the faithful discharge of his duties in such form as the Board of Directors may require.
Section 9. Treasurer.
     Each Assistant Treasurer shall have the usual powers and duties pertaining to his office, together with such other powers and duties as designated in these bylaws and as from time to time may be assigned to him by the chief executive officer or the Board of Directors.
Section 10. Assistant Treasurers.
     The Secretary shall keep the minutes of all meetings of the Board of Directors, committees of directors and the stockholders in books provided for that purpose; he shall attend to the giving and serving of all notices; he may in the name of the Corporation affix the seal of the Corporation to all contracts of the Corporation and attest the affixation of the seal of the Corporation thereto; he may sign with the other appointed officers all certificates for shares of capital stock of the Corporation; he shall have charge of the certificate books, transfer books and stock ledgers, and such other books and papers as the Board of Directors may direct, all of which shall at all reasonable times be open to inspection of any director upon application at the office of the Corporation during business hours; he shall have such other powers and duties as designated in these bylaws and as from time to time may be assigned to him by the Board of Directors; and he shall in general perform all acts incident to the office of Secretary, subject to the control of the chief executive officer and the Board of Directors.
Section 11. Secretary.
     Each Assistant Secretary shall have the usual powers and duties pertaining to his office, together with such other powers and duties designated in these bylaws and as from time to time may be assigned to him by the chief executive officer or the Board of Directors. The Assistant Secretaries shall
Section 12. Assistant Secretaries.
 
exercise the powers of the Secretary during that officer's absence or inability or refusal to act.
     Unless otherwise directed by the Board of Directors, the chief executive officer shall have power to vote and otherwise act on behalf of the Corporation, in person or by proxy, at any meeting of security holders of or with respect to any action of security holders of any other corporation in which this Corporation may hold securities and otherwise to exercise any and all rights and powers which this Corporation may possess by reason of its ownership of securities in such other corporation.
Section 13. Action with Respect to Securities of Other Corporations.
     Each person who was or is made a party or is threatened to be made a party to or is involved in any action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative (hereinafter a "proceeding"), by reason of the fact that he or she, or a person of whom he or she is the legal representative, is or was or has agreed to become a director or officer of the Corporation or is or was serving or has agreed to serve at the request of the Corporation as a director or officer of another corporation or of a partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, including service with respect to employee benefit plans, whether the basis of such proceeding is alleged action in an official capacity as a director or officer or in any other capacity while serving or having agreed to serve as a director or officer, shall be indemnified and held harmless by the Corporation to the fullest extent authorized by the Delaware General Corporation Law, as the same exists or may hereafter be amended, (but, in the case of any such amendment, only to the extent that such amendment permits the Corporation to provide broader indemnification rights than said law permitted the Corporation to provide prior to such amendment) against all expense, liability and loss (including, without limitation, attorneys' fees, judgments, fines, ERISA excise taxes or penalties and amounts paid or to be paid in settlement) reasonably incurred or suffered by such person in connection therewith and such indemnification shall continue as to a person who has ceased to serve in the capacity which initially entitled such person to indemnity hereunder and shall inure to the benefit of his or her heirs, executors and administrators; provided, however, that the Corporation shall indemnify any such person seeking indemnification in connection with a proceeding (or part thereof) initiated by such person only if such proceeding (or part thereof) was authorized by the board of directors of the Corporation. The right to indemnification conferred in this Article VI shall be a contract right and shall include the right to be paid by the Corporation the expenses incurred in defending any such proceeding in advance of its final disposition; provided, however, that, if the Delaware General Corporation Law requires, the payment of such expenses incurred by a current, former or proposed director or officer in his or her capacity as a director or officer or proposed director or officer (and not in any other capacity in which service was or is or has been agreed to be rendered by such person
Section 1. Right to Indemnification.
 
while a director or officer, including, without limitation, service to an employee benefit plan) in advance of the final disposition of a proceeding, shall be made only upon delivery to the Corporation of an undertaking, by or on behalf of such indemnified person, to repay all amounts so advanced if it shall ultimately be determined that such indemnified person is not entitled to be indemnified under this Section or otherwise.
     The Corporation may, by action of its Board of Directors, provide indemnification to employees and agents of the Corporation, individually or as a group, with the same scope and effect as the indemnification of directors and officers provided for in this Article.
Section 2. Indemnification of Employees and Agents.
     If a written claim received by the Corporation from or on behalf of an indemnified party under this Article VI is not paid in full by the Corporation within ninety days after such receipt, the claimant may at any time thereafter bring suit against the Corporation to recover the unpaid amount of the claim and, if successful in whole or in part, the claimant shall be entitled to be paid also the expense of prosecuting such claim. It shall be a defense to any such action (other than an action brought to enforce a claim for expenses incurred in defending any proceeding in advance of its final disposition where the required undertaking, if any is required, has been tendered to the Corporation) that the claimant has not met the standards of conduct which make it permissible under the Delaware General Corporation Law for the Corporation to indemnify the claimant for the amount claimed, but the burden of proving such defense shall be on the Corporation. Neither the failure of the Corporation (including its Board of Directors, independent legal counsel, or its stockholders) to have made a determination prior to the commencement of such action that indemnification of the claimant is proper in the circumstances because he or she has met the applicable standard of conduct set forth in the Delaware General Corporation Law, nor an actual determination by the Corporation (including its Board of Directors, independent legal counsel, or its stockholders) that the claimant has not met such applicable standard of conduct, shall be a defense to the action or create a presumption that the claimant has not met the applicable standard of conduct.
Section 3. Right of Claimant to Bring Suit.
     The right to indemnification and the advancement and payment of expenses conferred in this Article VI shall not be exclusive of any other right which any person may have or hereafter acquire under any law (common or statutory), provision of the Certificate of incorporation of the Corporation, bylaw, agreement, vote of stockholders or disinterested directors or otherwise.
Section 4. Nonexclusivity of Rights.
     The Corporation may maintain insurance, at its expense, to protect itself and any person who is or was serving as a director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation or is or was Serving at the request of the Corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise against any expense, liability or loss, whether or not the Corporation would have the power to indemnify such person against such expense, liability or loss under the Delaware General Corporation Law.
Section 5. Insurance.
 
     If this Article VI or any portion hereof shall be invalidated on any ground by any court of competent jurisdiction, then the Corporation shall nevertheless indemnify and hold harmless each director and officer of the Corporation as to costs, charges and expenses (including attorneys' fees), judgments, fines, and amounts paid in settlement with respect to any action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative to the full extent permitted by any applicable portion of this Article VI that shall not have been invalidated and to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law.
Section 6. Savings Clause.
     The shares of the capital stock of the Corporation may be certificated or uncertificated. If shares are certificated, the Corporation shall cause to be issued to the holder of such shares one or more certificates in such form, not inconsistent with that required by law and the Certificate of Incorporation, as shall be approved by the Board of Directors. Each such certificate shall be issued under the seal of the Corporation or a facsimile thereof (if the Board of Directors shall have provided for such seal); shall be signed by the Chairman of the Board (if any), the President or a Vice President and the Secretary, an Assistant Secretary, the Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer; and shall specify the number of shares (and, if the stock of the Corporation shall be divided into classes or series, the class and series of such shares) represented by such certificate; provided, however, that any or all of the signatures on the certificate may be facsimile. The stock record books and the blank stock certificate books shall be kept by the Secretary, or at the office of such transfer agent or transfer agents as the Board of Directors may from time to time by resolution determine. In case any officer, transfer agent or registrar who shall have signed or whose facsimile signature or signatures shall have been placed upon any such certificate or certificates shall have ceased to be such officer, transfer agent or registrar before such certificate is issued by the Corporation, such certificate may nevertheless be issued by the Corporation with the same effect as if such person were such officer, transfer agent or registrar at the date of issue. The stock certificates shall be consecutively numbered and shall be entered in the books of the Corporation as they are issued and shall exhibit the holder's name and number of shares.
Section 1. Issuance of Shares.
     The shares of stock of the corporation shall be transferable only on the books of the Corporation by the holders thereof in person or by their duly authorized attorneys or legal representatives and, in the case of shares represented by certificates, upon surrender and cancellation of certificates for a like number of shares. Upon surrender to the Corporation or a transfer agent of the Corporation of a certificate for shares duly endorsed or accompanied by proper evidence of succession, assignment or authority to transfer, it shall be the duty of the Corporation
Section 2. Transfer of Shares.
 
to issue a new certificate to the person entitled thereto, cancel the old certificate and record the transaction upon its books.
     The Corporation shall be entitled to treat the holder of record of any share or shares of capital stock of the Corporation as the holder in fact thereof and, accordingly, shall not be bound to recognize any equitable or other claim to or interest in such share or shares on the part of any other person, whether or not it shall have express or other notice thereof, except as otherwise provided by the laws of the State of Delaware.
Section 3. Ownership of Shares.
     The Board of Directors shall have the power and authority to make all such rules and regulations as they may deem expedient concerning the issue, transfer and registration of certificates and uncertificated shares and, in the case of shares represented by certificates, the replacement of certificates.
Section 4. Regulations Regarding Shares.
     The Board of Directors may determine the conditions upon which a new certificate of stock or uncertificated shares may be issued in place of a certificate which is alleged to have been lost, stolen or destroyed; and may, in their discretion, require the owner of such certificate or his legal representative to give bond, with sufficient surety, to indemnify the Corporation and each transfer agent and registrar against any and all losses or claims which may arise by reason of the issue of a new certificate or uncertificated shares in the place of the certificate so lost, stolen or destroyed.
Section 5. Lost or Destroyed Certificates.
     The fiscal year of the Corporation shall be such as established from time to time by the Board of Directors.
Section 1. Fiscal Year.
     The Board of Directors may provide a suitable seal containing the name of the Corporation. The Secretary shall have charge of the seal (if any). If and when so directed by the Board of Directors or a committee thereof, duplicates of the seal may be kept and used by the Treasurer or by the Assistant Secretary or Assistant Treasurer.
Section 2. Corporate Seal.
     Whenever any notice is required to be given by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or under the provisions of these bylaws, said notice shall be deemed to be sufficient if given (i) by telegraphic, cable or wireless transmission or (ii) by deposit of the same in a post office box in a sealed prepaid wrapper addressed to the person entitled thereto at his post office address, as it appears on the records of the Corporation, and such notice shall be deemed to have been given on the day of such transmission or mailing, as the case may be.
Section 3. Notice and Waiver of Notice.
 
     Whenever notice is required to be given by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or under any of the provisions of these bylaws, a written waiver thereof, signed by the person entitled to notice, whether before or after the time stated therein, shall be deemed equivalent to notice. Attendance of a person at a meeting shall constitute a waiver of notice of such meeting, except when the person attends a meeting for the express purpose of objecting, at the beginning of the meeting, to the transaction of any business because the meeting is not lawfully called or convened. Neither the business to be transacted at, nor the purpose of, any regular or special meeting of the stockholders, directors, or members of a committee of directors need be specified in any written waiver of notice unless so required by the Certificate of incorporation or the bylaws.
     Any director, member of a committee or officer may resign at any time. Such resignation shall be made in writing and shall take effect at the time specified therein, or if no time be specified, at the time of its receipt by the chief executive officer or secretary. The acceptance of a resignation shall not be necessary to make it effective, unless expressly so provided in the resignation.
Section 4. Resignations.
     In addition to the provisions for the use of facsimile signatures elsewhere specifically authorized in these bylaws, facsimile signatures of any officer or officers of the Corporation may be used whenever and as authorized by the Board of Directors.
Section 5. Facsimile Signatures.
     Each director and each member of any committee designated by the Board of Directors shall, in the performance of his duties, be fully protected in relying in good faith upon the books of account or reports made to the Corporation by any of its officers, or by an independent certified public accountant, or by an appraiser selected with reasonable care by the Board of Directors or by any such committee, or in relying in good faith upon other records of the Corporation.
Section 6. Reliance upon Books, Reports and Records.
 
     The Board of Directors is hereby expressly authorized to adopt, amend or repeal the bylaws of the Corporation or adopt new bylaws, without any action on the part of the stockholders, by the vote of a majority of the directors; provided, however, that no such adoption, amendment, or repeal shall be valid with respect to bylaw provisions which have been adopted, amended, or repealed by the stockholders; and further provided, that bylaws adopted or amended by the Directors and any powers thereby conferred may be amended, altered, or repealed by the stockholders. Notwithstanding the foregoing and anything in these bylaws to the contrary, Article II Section 1, Article II Section 4, Article II Section 12, Article III Section 6, Article III Section 7, Article III Section 12 and Article IX of these bylaws shall not be amended, repealed, altered or added to by the stockholders, and no provision inconsistent therewith shall be adopted by the stockholders without the affirmative vote of the holders of at least of the Corporation's voting stock issued and outstanding.
66-2/3 %


