FILE:DELL/DELL-8K-20070301164338.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Notice of Delisting or Failure to Satisfy a Continued Listing Rule or Standard; Transfer of Listing	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Notice of Delisting or Failure to Satisfy a Continued Listing Rule or Standard; Transfer of Listing
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
================================================================================ UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549 ------ FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of The Securities Exchange Act of 1934 ------ Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): February 28, 2007 ------ Dell Inc. (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) Delaware 0-17017 74-2487834 (State or other jurisdiction (Commission (IRS Employer of incorporation) File Number) Identification No.) One Dell Way, Round Rock, Texas 78682 (Address of principal executive offices) (zip code) Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (512) 338-4400 Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions: |_| Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) |_| Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) |_| Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) |_| Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c)) ================================================================================
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition. On March 1, 2007, Dell Inc. issued a press release announcing its preliminary financial results for its fiscal quarter ended February 2, 2007. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report. Item 3.01 Notice of Delisting or Failure to Satisfy a Continued Listing Rule or Standard; Transfer of Listing. On February 28, 2007, Dell was informed that the NASDAQ Listing and Hearing Review Council had decided to call the Listing Qualifications Panel's January 17, 2007 decision for review, and had also stayed any future action by the Panel to delist the company's common stock pending further review by the Council. As previously announced, the company is not in compliance with NASDAQ Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(14) because it has not timely filed its Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the periods ended August 4, 2006 and November 3, 2006. On January 17, 2007, the Listing Qualifications Panel issued a decision granting the company's request for continued listing, subject to specified conditions. On February 22, 2007, the company requested that the Council review that decision, and on February 28, 2007, Dell's request was granted. Dell's common stock will remain listed until the Council's review has been completed. The company has until May 4, 2007 to submit any additional information that it wishes the Council to consider in its review. Item 8.01 Other Events. Dell is involved in various claims, suits, investigations and legal proceedings that arise from time to time in the ordinary course of its business. As required by Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 5, "Accounting for Contingencies," the company accrues a liability when management believes that it is both probable that a liability has been incurred and the company can reasonably estimate the amount of the loss. Management believes that the company appropriately accrues for all such matters. The following is a discussion of significant legal matters involving the company. Investigations and Related Litigation In August 2005, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") initiated an investigation into certain accounting and financial reporting matters at Dell. In August 2006, because of potential issues identified in the course of responding to the SEC's requests for information, the company's Audit Committee, on the recommendation of management, initiated an independent investigation. The investigations are examining certain accounting and financial reporting matters, including issues relating to reserves and other balance sheet items that may affect the company's previously reported financial results. Due to questions raised in connection with these ongoing investigations, Dell has not filed the Form 10-Q for its fiscal second quarter ended August 4, 2006, or the Form 10-Q for the fiscal third quarter ended November 3, 2006. The investigations are ongoing, and no determination has been made as to whether restatements of prior period financial statements will be required. Management is cooperating with the SEC and the Audit Committee, and the company is committed to resolving the issues raised in connection with the investigations and regaining compliance with all SEC filing requirements and all NASDAQ listing requirements as soon as possible. The SEC requests for information were joined by a similar request from the United States Attorney for the Southern District of New York ("SDNY"), who subpoenaed documents related to the company's financial reporting from 2002 to the present. The company is also cooperating with the SDNY. The company and various current and former directors and officers of the company are parties to securities, ERISA, and shareholder derivative lawsuits all arising out of the same events and facts. Four securities class actions are pending in the Western District of Texas, Austin Division against the company and certain current and former officers asserting violations of sections 10(b), 20(a), and 20A of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 based on alleged false and misleading disclosures or omissions regarding Dell's financial statements, governmental investigations, known battery problems, and insiders' sales of company securities. One of the actions also asserts that Dell manipulated earnings and misstated its public disclosures by failing to disclose large rebates from Intel, who is also named as a defendant. Two of the actions also include the company's independent auditor, PricewaterhouseCoopers, as a 2
defendant. Four putative class actions were also filed in the Western District by purported participants in the company's employee pension benefit plan asserting claims under ERISA and alleging that the company and certain current and former officers and directors imprudently invested, managed, or disclosed information regarding the company's 401(k) plan. These actions have been consolidated. In addition, seven outstanding shareholder derivative lawsuits have been filed in three separate jurisdictions (the Western District of Texas, Austin Division; the Delaware Chancery Court; and the state district court in Travis County, Texas) naming various current and former officers and directors as defendants and Dell Inc. as a nominal defendant. The shareholder derivative lawsuits allege claims derivatively on behalf of Dell under state law, including breaches of fiduciary duties. Dell intends to defend all of these lawsuits vigorously. Other Litigation The following is a description of other significant legal matters in which Dell is involved: Copyright Levies -- Proceedings against the IT industry in Germany seek to impose levies on equipment, such as personal computers, multifunction devices, and printers that facilitate making private copies of copyrighted materials. The total levies due, if imposed, would be based on the number of products sold and the per-product amounts of the levies, which vary. Dell, other companies, and various industry associations are opposing these levies and instead are advocating compensation to rights holders through digital rights management systems. There are currently three levies cases involving other companies pending before the German Federal Supreme Court. Adverse decisions in these cases could ultimately impact Dell. The cases involve personal computers, printers, and multifunctional devices. The amount claimed with respect to personal computers is (euro) 12 per personal computer sold. The amounts claimed with respect to printers and multifunctional devices depend on speed and color and vary between (euro) 10 and (euro) 300 for printers and between (euro) 38 and (euro) 600 for multifunctional devices. The equipment manufacturers in these cases recently lost in the lower courts, and have appealed. On February 17, 2006, Zenstralle Fur Uberspielungrechte ("ZPU"), a joint association of various German collection societies, instituted arbitration proceedings against Dell Gmbh before the Arbitration Body in Munich. ZPU claims a levy of (euro) 18.4 per personal computer that Dell sold in Germany from January 1, 2002 through December 31, 2005. Dell intends to defend this claim vigorously. Lucent v. Dell -- In February 2003, Lucent Technologies, Inc. filed a lawsuit against Dell Inc. in the United States District Court for Delaware, and the lawsuit was subsequently transferred to the United States District Court for the Southern District of California. The lawsuit alleges that Dell infringed 12 patents owned by Lucent and seeks monetary damages and injunctive relief. In April 2003, Microsoft Corporation filed a declaratory judgment action against Lucent in the United States District Court for the Southern District of California, asserting that Microsoft products do not infringe patents held by Lucent, including 10 of the 12 patents at issue in the lawsuit involving Dell and Microsoft. These actions were consolidated for discovery purposes with a previous suit that Lucent filed against Gateway Inc. In September 2005, the Court also granted a summary judgment of invalidity with respect to one of the Lucent patents asserted against Dell. Fact and expert discovery has closed, and the three actions have been consolidated into five separate trials, in which a different group of patents will be tried by each jury. Dell is defending these claims vigorously. Separately, Dell has filed a lawsuit against Lucent in the United District Court for the Eastern District of Texas, alleging that Lucent infringes two patents owned by Dell and seeks monetary damages and injunctive relief. That litigation is pending and discovery is proceeding. Sales Tax Claims -- Several state and local taxing jurisdictions have asserted claims against Dell Catalog Sales L.P. ("DCSLP"), an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Dell, alleging that DCSLP has an obligation to collect tax on sales made into those jurisdictions because of its alleged nexus, or physical presence, in those jurisdictions. Dell has settled suits filed by the State of Louisiana and the Secretary of the Louisiana Department of Revenue and Taxation in the 19th Judicial District Court of the State of Louisiana, and by two Louisiana parishes, Orleans Parish and Jefferson Parish, in the State of Louisiana 24th Judicial District Court. Dell also settled similar claims by the State of Massachusetts. While there are ongoing claims by certain other state and local taxing authorities, DCSLP disputes the allegation that it had nexus in any of these other jurisdictions during the periods in issue, and is defending the claims vigorously. The company does not expect that the outcome of these other claims, individually or collectively, will have a material adverse effect on Dell's financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 3
Dell is involved in various other claims, suits, investigations and legal proceedings that arise from time to time in the ordinary course of its business. Although the company does not expect that the outcome in any of these other legal proceedings, individually or collectively, will have a material adverse effect on Dell's financial condition, litigation is inherently unpredictable. Therefore, the company could in the future incur judgments or enter into settlements of claims that could adversely affect our operating results or cash flows in a particular period. Additional Risk Factors In addition to the risk factors described under Part I - "Item 1A - Risk Factors" in Dell's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended February 3, 2006, the following factors could adversely affect Dell's business, its results of operations or financial condition: o Possible outcomes of the ongoing investigations into certain accounting and financial reporting matters include a determination that restatement of prior period financial statements is required, a conclusion that there is a material weakness in the company's internal controls over financial reporting, and a determination that disclosure controls and procedures are not effective. As described above under "Investigations and Related Litigation," the investigations are ongoing, and no such determinations or conclusions have been made. o Litigation and governmental investigations or proceedings arising out of or related to accounting and financial reporting matters, or any restatement of Dell's financial statements, could result in substantial costs. Because Dell has not completed its required filings with the SEC, Dell may be prevented from completing other required government regulatory filings, and could incur substantial costs to defend legal actions, or be required to pay damages. See the claims, suits, investigations and legal proceedings described above under "Investigations and Related Litigation." Dell could face additional litigation depending upon the conclusions of the investigations into certain accounting and financial reporting matters. Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits. (d) Exhibits. Exhibit 99.1 -- Press Release issued by Dell Inc., dated March 1, 2007. 4
SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. DELL INC. Date: March 1, 2007 By: /s/ Thomas H. Welch, Jr. ------------------------------- Thomas H. Welch, Jr. Vice President and Assistant Secretary 5
EXHIBIT INDEX Exhibit No. Description of Exhibit ---- ---------------------- 99.1 Press Release issued by Dell Inc., dated March 1, 2007. 6

EXHIBIT 99.1 Dell Reports Preliminary Revenue of $14.4 Billion; Preliminary Earnings Per Share of $0.30 Company Takes Action to Transform Business to Drive Long Term Sustainable Performance ROUND ROCK, Texas--(BUSINESS WIRE)--March 1, 2007--Dell (NASDAQ:DELL) reported preliminary results for the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2007, with revenue of $14.4 billion, operating income of $801 million, and earnings per share of $0.30. Dell ended the quarter with $12.5 billion in cash and investments. In the quarter, several items impacted operating income and earnings per share. First, the company will not be paying out the full amount of accrued employee bonuses due to its failure to achieve its operating targets for fiscal 2007. The reduction in the provision for employee bonuses positively impacted operating income and earnings per share by $184 million and $0.06, respectively. Second, costs associated with the ongoing investigations into certain accounting and financial reporting matters reduced operating income and earnings per share by $89 million and $0.03, respectively. And third, a one-time gain on the sale of real estate added $36 million pre-tax to financing and other income, or $0.01 per share. "We are disappointed with the company's results, but what matters is our future plan of action. We are systematically moving to increase efficiencies, improve execution and transform the company," said Chairman and CEO Michael Dell. "Our business model will become more aligned with the needs of our customers, which will improve their experience and yield improved growth and profitability for the long-term." Transformation Under Way The company said it is moving quickly to strengthen its management team, unify business units, and eliminate redundancies, while redeploying resources to drive greater value for customers. The company also said it is moving to shorten product development cycles, make decisions closer to the customer, and develop new approaches to manufacturing and distribution to better reach and serve customers in fast-growing and emerging markets. Examples of these changes include the globalization, under new leaders, of Dell's services organization, global operations (manufacturing, supply chain and procurement) and its global consumer business, including product design and development. "We won't achieve our goals overnight, but we will achieve our goals," added Mr. Dell. "We will be known again for strong operating and financial performance and a great experience for our customers. But it will take time to realize the future benefits of the improvements we are making today." Strong International Shipments and Growth in Enterprise and Services Among Highlights In the fourth quarter, international unit shipments exceeded U.S. shipments for the first time in company history. This drove the mix of revenue from outside the U.S. to a record 46 percent of Dell's revenues. Dell's server offerings, including the new 9G servers featuring Intel and AMD processors, contributed $1.5 billion in revenues on two percent unit growth over the prior fourth quarter. Revenue from storage products was strong globally at $ 0.6 billion. Revenue from mobility products declined two percent to $3.8 billion on a two percent increase in units. Desktop revenues of $4.6 billion declined year on year driven by an 18 percent decline in units. Enhanced services revenues of $1.5 billion benefited from the addition of the company's new Platinum Plus offerings for enterprise customers and Dell on Call for consumers. Dell launched Microsoft Vista for Consumers in the quarter, offering systems equipped with the new operating system designed to deliver a rich digital lifestyle experience, combined with secure operations and ease of use. Customer Experience Investments Deliver Results The company's focus on customer experience yielded positive results in fiscal year 2007. In the U.S., customer satisfaction with Dell technical support improved significantly. The company reduced call transfers, and improved "Resolve in One" first-contact resolution of customer issues. Later this year, Dell will offer online data-migration and backup capability preinstalled by Dell to further strengthen its service and support offerings. Company Outlook The company is focused on transformational efforts that are designed to yield improving operational results, customer experience, financial performance and shareholder value. These investments in the coming quarters should produce a more optimal balance of growth, profitability and liquidity over the long term. In the next several quarters, however, the company expects that growth and margins will continue to be under pressure as it implements and refines these actions. Investigation Update; Preliminary Results Subject to Change As previously announced, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and the Company's Audit Committee are conducting investigations into certain accounting and financial reporting matters, including the possibility of misstatements in prior period financial reports, and the company previously received a related subpoena from the United States Attorney for the Southern District of New York. Due to questions raised in connection with these ongoing investigations, the Company has not filed the Form 10-Q for its fiscal second quarter ended August 4, 2006, or the Form 10-Q for its fiscal third quarter ended November 3, 2006. As a result, all financial results described in this press release, as well as the previously announced financial results for the second and third quarters, should be considered preliminary, and are subject to change to reflect any necessary corrections or adjustments, or changes in accounting estimates, that are identified prior to the time the company is in a position to complete these filings. In addition, the preliminary results for the second, third and fourth quarters could be affected by any restatements of prior period financial statements that are required as a result of any conclusions reached by the investigations. No determination has been made as to whether restatements of prior period financial statements will be required. The company is not currently able to predict the extent or significance of any such changes, and those changes could materially affect the preliminary results reported herein, as well as the previously announced results for the second and third quarters. The company is working diligently to file the quarterly reports for the second and third quarters, as well as the annual report on Form 10-K for fiscal 2007, as soon as possible. Additional information about the investigations, as well as information about related private litigation, can be found in the Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC concurrent with the issuance of this press release. NASDAQ Listing Update On February 28, 2007, Dell was informed that the NASDAQ Listing and Hearing Review Council had decided to review the Listing Qualifications Panel's January 17, 2007 decision, and had also stayed any future action by the Panel to delist the company's common stock pending further review by the Council. As a result of this decision, Dell's common stock will remain listed on The NASDAQ Stock Market pending completion of the Council's review. Dell has until May 4, 2007, to submit any additional information it wishes the Council to consider. About Dell Dell Inc. (NASDAQ:DELL) listens to customers and delivers innovative technology and services they trust and value. Uniquely enabled by its direct business model, Dell is a leading global systems and services company and No. 25 on the Fortune 500. For more information, visit www.dell.com. To get Dell news direct, visit www.dell.com/RSS. Special Note Statements in this press release that relate to future results and events (including statements about Dell's reported preliminary results and expected future financial and operating performance) are forward-looking statements based on Dell's current expectations. Actual results may differ materially from those estimated in these forward-looking statements because of a number of risks and uncertainties, including: general economic, business and industry conditions; the level and intensity of competition in the technology industry and the pricing pressures that have resulted; the outcome of the ongoing investigations into certain accounting and financial reporting matters that could result in management's determination that restatements of the company's prior period financial statements are required, or management's conclusion that there is a material weakness in the company's internal controls over financial reporting and that disclosure controls and procedures are not effective; Dell's failure to meet NASDAQ requirements for continued listing as a result of its delinquent periodic report filings; litigation and governmental investigations or proceedings arising out of or related to accounting and financial reporting matters, or any restatement of Dell's financial statements; local economic and labor conditions, political instability, unexpected regulatory changes, trade protection measures, tax laws, copyright levies and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; the ability to accurately predict product, customer and geographic sales mix; the ability to timely and effectively manage periodic product transitions; reliance on third-party suppliers for product components, including dependence on several single-source supplier relationships; the ability to effectively manage operating costs; the ability to attract and retain qualified personnel; the level of demand for the products and services Dell offers; the ability to manage inventory levels to minimize excess inventory, declining inventory values and obsolescence; and the effect of armed hostilities, terrorism, natural disasters and public health issues on the economy generally, on the level of demand for Dell's products and services and on Dell's ability to manage its supply and delivery logistics in such an environment. Additional discussion of these and other factors affecting Dell's business and prospects is contained in Dell's periodic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. DELL INC. Condensed Consolidated Statement of Income and Related Financial Highlights - PRELIMINARY (see Note) (in millions, except per share data or as otherwise noted) (unaudited) Three Months Ended February 2, 2007 (a) -------------------- Net revenue $14,402 Cost of revenue 11,934 -------------------- Gross margin 2,468 Total operating expenses 1,667 -------------------- Operating income 801 Investment and other income, net 105 -------------------- Income before income taxes 906 Income tax provision 233 -------------------- Net income $673 ==================== Earnings per common share: Basic $0.30 ==================== Diluted $0.30 ==================== Weighted average shares outstanding: Basic 2,230 Diluted 2,251 Percentage of Total Net Revenue: - -------------------------------------------------- Gross margin 17.1% Operating expenses 11.6% Operating income 5.5% Income before income taxes 6.3% Net income 4.7% Income tax rate 25.7% Net Revenue by Geographic Region (in billions): - -------------------------------------------------- Americas $8.8 Europe 3.8 Asia Pacific - Japan 1.8 Percentage of Total Net Revenue: - -------------------------------------------------- Americas 61% Europe 27% Asia Pacific - Japan 12% Net Revenue by Product Category (in billions): - -------------------------------------------------- Desktop PCs $4.6 Mobility 3.8 Servers and Networking 1.5 Storage 0.6 Enhanced Services 1.5 Software and Peripherals 2.4 Percentage of Total Net Revenue: - -------------------------------------------------- Desktop PCs 32% Mobility 26% Servers and Networking 11% Storage 4% Enhanced Services 11% Software and Peripherals 16% Note: These preliminary results are subject to change to reflect any necessary corrections or adjustments, or changes in accounting estimates, that are identified prior to the time the company's financial statements for the second, third and fourth quarters of fiscal 2007 are finalized. In addition, these preliminary results could be affected by any restatements of prior period financial statements that are required as a result of conclusions reached by the ongoing investigations concerning certain accounting and financial reporting matters being conducted by the company's Audit Committee and the Securities and Exchange Commission. See "Investigation Update; Preliminary Results Subject to Change" in the accompanying press release. (a) Results for the three months ended February 2, 2007 include stock- based compensation expense of $74 million, or $50 million ($0.02 per share) net of tax, due to the implementation of Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No. 123 (revised 2004), Share-Based Payments, ("SFAS 123(R)"). Dell implemented SFAS 123(R) using the modified prospective method effective February 4, 2006. DELL INC. Financial Highlights -- Continued - PRELIMINARY (see Note) (unaudited) February 2, 2007 ------------------- Other Information: - -------------------------------------------------- Headcount (approximate) 82,200 Average total revenue/unit (approximate) $1,590 Cash and investments (in billions) $12.5 Commercial paper borrowings (in billions) $0.1 Ratios are calculated based on underlying data in thousands. Note: These preliminary results are subject to change to reflect any necessary corrections or adjustments, or changes in accounting estimates, that are identified prior to the time the company's financial statements for the second, third and fourth quarters of fiscal 2007 are finalized. In addition, these preliminary results could be affected by any restatements of prior period financial statements that are required as a result of conclusions reached by the ongoing investigations concerning certain accounting and financial reporting matters being conducted by the company's Audit Committee and the Securities and Exchange Commission. See "Investigation Update; Preliminary Results Subject to Change" in the accompanying press release. CONTACT: Dell Inc., Round Rock Media Contacts: Bob Pearson, 512-728-3256 bob_pearson@dell.com or Dwayne Cox, 512-728-6236 dwayne_cox@dell.com or Investor Contacts: Lynn A. Tyson, 512-723-1130 lynn_tyson@dell.com or Robert Williams, 512-728-7570 robert_williams@dell.com


