FILE:DELL/DELL-8K-20070808163327.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
(e) As more fully described in the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on July 24, 2007, the Company has implemented a program to provide cash payments to certain current and former employees who hold in-the-money stock options that expire while unexercisable by reason of the Company's delinquency in filing its fiscal 2007 Annual Report on Form 10-K. On August 3, 2007, the Leadership Development and Compensation Committee of the Company's Board of Directors approved extending this program to include additional expired options that were held by Kevin B. Rollins, the Company's former President and Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Rollins retired from the Company effective May 4, 2007, and under the terms of his option agreements, 7,370,000 unexercised options that were vested at the time of his retirement expired 90 days after his retirement date (August 2, 2007). As a result of this approval and Mr. Rollins' execution of a release agreement, Mr. Rollins will receive a cash payment of $48,462,495 on or before 45 days after the Company has filed its fiscal 2007 Annual Report on Form 10-K. The Company will incur compensation expense in the second quarter of fiscal 2008 equal to the amount of that cash payment. The release agreement executed by Mr. Rollins is substantially the same as the form filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on July 24, 2007.
Item 8.01 Other Events.
Dell completed its previously announced acquisition of SilverBack Technologies, Inc. on July 26, 2007.
On August 2, 2007, Dell issued a press release announcing the signing of an agreement to acquire the ASAP Software business from Corporate Express NV for $340 million. The planned acquisition will not be final until all regulatory and closing conditions are met. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
On August 6, 2007, Dell issued a press release announcing the signing of an agreement to acquire ZING Systems, Inc. The planned acquisition will not be final until all closing conditions are met. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.2 to this report.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
Exhibit 99.1  Press Release issued by Dell Inc., dated August 2, 2007.
Exhibit 99.2  Press Release issued by Dell Inc., dated August 6, 2007.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
EXHIBIT 99.1
NEWS
Dell Inc. Rainer von Mielecki, Dwayne Cox +44 (0) 134437 2550, (512) 992-8248 rainer_vonmielecki@dell.com dwayne_cox@dell.com
MEDIA CONTACTS:
Dell Inc. Lynn Tyson, Rob Williams (512) 723-1130, (512) 728-7570 lynn_tyson@dell.com robert_williams@dell.com
INVESTOR CONTACTS:
Corporate Express Carl Hoyer 31 20 651 10 42
ir@cexpgroup.com
DELL PLANS TO ACQUIRE ASAP SOFTWARE
Dell announced today that it has entered into an agreement to acquire ASAP Software, a leading software solutions and licensing services provider and a subsidiary of Corporate Express.
ROUND ROCK, Texas, and BUFFALO GROVE, Ill.  August 2, 2007 
     The acquisition will strengthen Dell's existing software business by integrating ASAP's complementary expertise in managing software licensing, purchasing, renewals, and compliance.
     Under the agreement, Dell will purchase ASAP for approximately $340 million. The acquisition is subject to regulatory approvals and customary closing conditions. It is anticipated to close during Dell's fiscal third quarter.
 
          "Merging Dell's software business with ASAP is part of our effort to re-invent and simplify the way our customers get access to IT," said Paul Bell, senior vice president and president, Dell Americas. "After the acquisition is completed, our customers will have one of the world's leading software solutions providers as a single point of expertise and accountability for software licensing, compliance, renewal and asset management."
          ASAP is a provider of IT products and services to corporations and government organizations. Its subsidiary, License Technologies Group, specializes in licensing and e-commerce services for software publishers and their partners. Dell is increasingly being asked by corporate, government and institutional customers to deliver solutions that simplify software management. The ASAP acquisition is a key step in answering the needs of Dell customers.
          "Maximizing the value of our customers' technology investment is a hallmark of ASAP," said Paul Jarvie, ASAP president. "We're excited about the opportunity to leverage the systems, processes, and teams we've developed over the past 23 years to serve Dell customers."
          The acquisition of ASAP furthers Dell's long-term initiative to radically simplify IT for customers by removing cost and complexity and making technology more efficient, manageable and flexible. Dell's strategy, developed through millions of direct conversations with customers, is based on a set of core beliefs that:
 
About Dell
     Dell Inc. (NASDAQ: DELL) listens to customers and delivers innovative technology and services they trust and value. Uniquely enabled by its direct business model, Dell is a leading global systems and services company and No. 34 on the Fortune 500. For more information, visit www.dell.com, or to communicate directly with Dell via a variety of online channels, go to . To get Dell news direct, visit .
www.dell.com/conversations
www.dell.com/RSS
About ASAP
     ASAP provides IT products and services to corporations and government agencies headquartered in North America and Europe. Since its founding in 1984, the company has helped thousands of clients evaluate, purchase, deploy, and manage their software assets. Its expertise in volume licensing and innovative asset management solutions makes ASAP the single-source provider of choice for organizations whose objective is to maximize the value of their technology investments. With over 600 employees, ASAP serves customers through sales offices in 48 locations across North America and Europe. For more information, visit .
www.asap.com

 
EXHIBIT 99.2
NEWS
David Frink, Amy King (512) 728-2678, (512) 725-2743
MEDIA CONTACTS:
david_frink@dell.com
amy_king@dell.com
Lynn Tyson, Rob Williams (512) 723-1130, (512) 728-7570
INVESTOR CONTACTS:
lynn_tyson@dell.com
rob_williams@dell.com
DELL PLANS TO ACQUIRE ZING SYSTEMS INC.
Dell announced today it has entered into an agreement to acquire privately-held ZING Systems Inc., a consumer technology and services company that focuses on always-connected audio and entertainment devices. In a move that reflects the renewed interest and energy being directed at its Consumer business, Dell plans to use ZING and its capabilities to continue improving the entertainment experiences it provides its customers.
ROUND ROCK, Texas, Aug. 6, 2007 
     Terms were not disclosed, and the purchase will not be final until all closing conditions are met. ZING is based in Mountain View, CA.
     For more information on Dell Consumer products, visit .
www.dell.com
About Dell
     Dell Inc. (NASDAQ: DELL) listens to customers and delivers innovative technology and services they trust and value. Uniquely enabled by its direct business model, Dell is a leading global systems and services company and No. 34 on the Fortune 500. For more information, visit , or to communicate directly with Dell via a variety of online channels, go to . To get Dell news direct, visit .
www.dell.com
www.dell.com/conversations
www.dell.com/RSS


