FILE:DELL/DELL-8K-20070816170203.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Non-Reliance on Previously Issued Financial Statements or a Related Audit Report or Completed Interim Review	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Non-Reliance on Previously Issued Financial Statements or a Related Audit Report or Completed Interim Review
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
      Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
      Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 4.02  Non-Reliance on Previously Issued Financial Statements or a Related Audit Report or Completed Interim Review
Special Note  This report contains forward-looking statements that are based on our current expectations. Actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied by those forward-looking statements because of a number of risks and uncertainties. See "Disclosures About Forward-Looking Statements" below.
(a) As we announced on August 17, 2006, the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors has been conducting an independent investigation into certain of our accounting and financial reporting practices. That investigation has been completed, and the investigator has reported the results to the Audit Committee. As a result of issues identified in that investigation, as well as issues identified in additional reviews and procedures conducted by management (all as discussed below), the Audit Committee, in consultation with management and PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, our independent registered public accounting firm, concluded on August 13, 2007 that our previously issued financial statements for fiscal 2003, 2004, 2005 and 2006 (including the interim periods within those years), and the first quarter of fiscal 2007 (collectively, the "Restatement Period"), should no longer be relied upon because of certain accounting errors and irregularities in those financial statements. Accordingly, we will restate our previously issued financial statements for those periods. See "Expected Impact of the Restatement" below.
As described below, the Audit Committee investigation began as a result of concerns raised by documents and information discovered in the course of responding to requests from the Division of Enforcement of the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") in connection with an investigation into certain of our accounting and financial reporting practices. While the restatement will address all of the issues identified in the Audit Committee investigation and in the additional reviews conducted by management, the SEC's investigation is ongoing, and there can be no assurance that there will not be additional issues or matters arising from that investigation.
Audit Committee Independent Investigation
Background
In August 2005, the SEC's Division of Enforcement notified us that it had commenced an investigation of the company and was seeking documents and information regarding certain of our accounting and financial reporting practices. Over the course of several months, we produced documents and provided information in response to the SEC's initial request and subsequent requests.
In June 2006, the SEC sent us an additional request for documents and information that appeared to expand the scope of the investigation, with respect to both issues and periods. As documents and information were collected in response to this additional request, our management was made aware of information that raised significant accounting and financial reporting concerns, including whether accruals, reserves and other balance sheet items had been recorded and reported properly. After evaluating this information and in consultation with PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, management determined that the identified issues warranted an independent investigation and recommended such to the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors.
On August 16, 2006, the Audit Committee, acting on management's recommendation, approved the initiation of an independent investigation. To conduct the investigation, the Audit Committee engaged Willkie Farr & Gallagher LLP ("Willkie Farr") to lead the investigation as independent legal counsel to the Audit Committee. Willkie Farr in turn engaged KPMG LLP ("KPMG") to serve as its independent forensic accountants.
Scope of the Investigation
The scope of the investigation was determined by Willkie Farr, in consultation with the Audit Committee and KPMG. The investigation involved a program of forensic analysis and inquiry directed to aspects of our accounting and financial reporting practices throughout the world, and evaluated aspects of our historical accounting and financial reporting practices since fiscal 2002 and, with respect to certain issues, prior fiscal years.
Willkie Farr and KPMG assembled an investigative team that ultimately consisted of more than 375 professionals, including more than 125 lawyers and 250 accountants. Investigative teams were deployed in our three geographic regions  Americas (including our corporate functions); Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA); and Asia-Pacific and Japan (APJ). Information and documents were gathered from company personnel worldwide. Using
 
proprietary search software, the investigative team evaluated over five million documents. Investigative counsel also conducted 233 interviews of 146 individuals, and the KPMG accountants, in connection with their forensic work, conducted numerous less formal discussions with various company employees. In addition, using a proprietary software tool designed to identify potentially questionable journal entries based on selected criteria (for example, entries made late in the quarterly close process, entries containing round dollar line items between $3 million and $50 million, and liability-to-liability transfers), KPMG selected and reviewed in excess of 2,600 journal entries that were highlighted by the tool or specifically identified by the forensic teams investigating specific issues.
Summary of Investigation Findings
The investigation raised questions relating to numerous accounting issues, most of which involved adjustments to various reserve and accrued liability accounts, and identified evidence that certain adjustments appear to have been motivated by the objective of attaining financial targets. According to the investigation, these activities typically occurred in the days immediately following the end of a quarter, when the accounting books were being closed and the results of the quarter were being compiled. The investigation found evidence that, in that timeframe, account balances were reviewed, sometimes at the request or with the knowledge of senior executives, with the goal of seeking adjustments so that quarterly performance objectives could be met. The investigation concluded that a number of these adjustments were improper, including the creation and release of accruals and reserves that appear to have been made for the purpose of enhancing internal performance measures or reported results, as well as the transfer of excess accruals from one liability account to another and the use of the excess balances to offset unrelated expenses in later periods. The investigation found that sometimes business unit personnel did not provide complete information to corporate headquarters and, in a number of instances, purposefully incorrect or incomplete information about these activities was provided to internal or external auditors.
The investigation identified evidence that accounting adjustments were viewed at times as an acceptable device to compensate for earnings shortfalls that could not be closed through operational means. Often, these adjustments were several hundred thousand or several million dollars, in the context of a company with annual revenue of between $35 billion and $56 billion and annual net income of between $2.1 billion and $3.6 billion for the periods in question. Nevertheless, the errors and irregularities identified in the course of the investigation revealed deficiencies in our accounting and financial control environment that require corrective and remedial actions. For a description of the control deficiencies identified by management as a result of the investigation and our internal reviews described below, as well as management's plan to remediate those deficiencies, see "Control Deficiencies" and "Remediation Plan" below.
Other Company Identified Adjustments
Concurrently with the investigation, we also conducted extensive internal reviews for the purpose of the preparation and certification of our fiscal 2007 financial statements and our assessment of internal control over financial reporting. Our procedures included expanded account reviews and expanded balance sheet reconciliations to ensure all accounts were fully reconciled, supported and appropriately documented. We also implemented improvements to our quarterly and annual accounting close process to provide for more complete review of the various business unit financial results. These additional reviews identified issues involving, among other things, revenue recognition in connection with sales of third party software, amortization of revenue related to after-point-of-sale extended warranties, and accounting for certain vendor reimbursement agreements.
Expected Impact of the Restatement
The restatement will correct the accounting errors and irregularities that have been identified through the Audit Committee investigation and by management as a result of its additional reviews. The accounting errors and irregularities that will be corrected are significant because of the combination of the number of issues identified, the qualitative nature of many of the issues, and in some cases, the dollar amounts involved. Many of the adjustments offset each other during the Restatement Period, and most relate to the timing of the recognition of income and expenses. Consequently, subject to the qualifications set forth below, we currently expect that the restatement will have the following effects. References below to annual and quarterly periods are to the annual and quarterly periods within the Restatement Period.
 
We plan to present the restated financial statements in two filings: an amendment to our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the first quarter of fiscal 2007, and our Annual Report on Form 10-K for fiscal 2007. We currently expect to file these documents, along with the Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the second and third quarters of fiscal 2007, with the SEC by the first week of November 2007. We also expect to file our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the first and second quarters of fiscal 2008 at that time or shortly thereafter.
We have not filed annual or quarterly periodic reports since we filed our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the first quarter of fiscal 2007. Since that time, we have periodically issued preliminary unaudited financial information. We expect that the reports described above, when filed, will show changes from the preliminary unaudited financial information we previously released. In the case of the second, third and fourth quarters of fiscal 2007, we expect the changes in net income and EPS to be in the range of 7% to 10%, with the second and third quarters showing reductions and the fourth quarter showing increases. These changes result from the carryover effect of adjustments made during the Restatement Period, as well as the effect of subsequent events that have occurred since we released the preliminary financial information for those quarters.
The Audit Committee and management have discussed the matters disclosed in Item 4.02(a) of this report with PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, our independent registered public accounting firm.
The above statements regarding the expected impact of the restatement and the expected timing of our filings constitute forward-looking statements that are based on our current expectations. The final amounts and the detailed presentation of the restatement will be included in our upcoming filings after we have completed our work on the restatement, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP has completed its review of the investigation and its audit work, and the Audit Committee has completed its final review of the investigation and the financial statements for the Restatement Period. There can be no assurance that this information will not change, possibly materially, before we file the restated financial statements. See "Disclosures About Forward-Looking Statements" below.
Control Deficiencies
As a result of our review of the accounting issues identified in the investigation, as well as the other issues identified by management in its internal reviews, we have identified the following deficiencies in our accounting and financial reporting controls:
 
The control environment, which is the responsibility of senior management, sets the tone of the organization, influences the control consciousness of its people, and is the foundation for all other components of internal control over financial reporting. The inadequate control environment contributed to the deficiencies in our period-end financial reporting process described below.
We currently expect that our annual and quarterly reports to be filed will include a determination by management that our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective and, in the case of the annual report, that these control deficiencies constituted material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting.
Remediation Plan
Our management, under new leadership as described below, has been actively engaged in the planning for, and implementation of, remediation efforts to address the control deficiencies, as well as other identified areas of risk. These remediation efforts, outlined below, are intended both to address the identified control deficiencies and to enhance our overall financial control environment. In January 2007, Michael S. Dell re-assumed the position of Chief Executive Officer and Donald J. Carty assumed the position of Chief Financial Officer. The design and implementation of these and other remediation efforts are the commitment and responsibility of this new leadership team.
 
 
The Audit Committee has directed management to develop a detailed plan and timetable for the implementation of the foregoing remedial measures (to the extent not already completed) and will monitor their implementation. In addition, under the direction of the Audit Committee, management will continue to review and make necessary changes to the overall design of our internal control environment, as well as policies and procedures to improve the overall effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting.
We believe the remediation measures described above will remediate the control deficiencies we have identified and strengthen our internal control over financial reporting. We are committed to continuing to improve our internal control processes and will continue to diligently and vigorously review our financial reporting controls and procedures. As we continue to evaluate and work to improve our internal control over financial reporting, we may determine to take additional measures to address control deficiencies or determine to modify, or in appropriate circumstances not to complete, certain of the remediation measures described above.
Disclosures About Forward-Looking Statements
This report contains forward-looking statements within the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Report Act of 1995. All statements other than those that are purely historical are forward-looking statements. Words such as "expect," "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "intend," "plan," "potential" and similar expressions also identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements include statements regarding expected materiality or significance, the quantitative effects of the restatement, and any anticipated conclusions of the company, the Audit Committee or management.
Because these forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, there are important factors that could cause our actual results, as well as our expectations regarding materiality or significance, the restatement's quantitative effects, the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures, and our deficiencies in internal control over financial reporting to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements. These factors include the risk that additional information may arise from the final conclusion of the investigation, the preparation of our restated financial statements or other subsequent events that would require us to make additional adjustments, as well as inherent limitations in internal controls over financial reporting. Furthermore, as noted above, there can be no assurance that additional issues or matters will not arise from the SEC investigation, which is ongoing.
For a discussion of a variety of risk factors affecting our business and prospects, see "Item 1A  Risk Factors" in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended February 3, 2006, as supplemented by Current Reports on Form 8-K that have been filed since then.
Item 8.01  Other Events
Annual Meeting of Stockholders
We are planning to hold our annual meeting of stockholders on December 4, 2007. Details for the meeting will be distributed to stockholders in the notice of meeting included in the proxy materials. We currently expect to distribute those proxy materials shortly after the filing of the Annual Report on Form 10-K for fiscal 2007.
 
Deadlines for Submission of Stockholder Proposals
Because of the delay in holding this year's annual meeting, we are reopening the period during which stockholders can present proposals for consideration at the meeting.
A stockholder who desires to present a proposal for consideration at the meeting must submit the proposal no later than the close of business on October 5, 2007 (60 days prior to the meeting). The proposal must comply with the requirements set forth in our Bylaws. Proposals should be addressed to Corporate Secretary, Dell Inc., One Dell Way, Mail Stop RR1-33, Round Rock, Texas 78682. In order for a proposal to be eligible for inclusion in the proxy statement relating to the meeting, it must be received before the close of business on August 31, 2007 and must satisfy the requirements of applicable SEC rules.
Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
Exhibit 99.1 Press Release issued by Dell Inc., dated August 16, 2007.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
David Frink, Bob Pearson (512) 728-2678 (512) 728-3256 david_frink@dell.com, bob_pearson@dell.com Lynn A. Tyson, Robert Williams (512) 723-1130, (512) 728-7570 lynn_tyson@dell.com, robert_williams@dell.com
MEDIA CONTACTS:
INVESTOR CONTACTS:
DELL INDEPENDENT INVESTIGATION COMPLETED; WILL RESTATE FINANCIALS Remedial Action Under Way to Correct Control Deficiencies
Dell today announced that its Audit Committee has completed its independent investigation into certain accounting and financial reporting matters. As a result of accounting errors and irregularities identified in that investigation and in additional reviews conducted by management, the Audit Committee has determined to restate the company's financial statements relating to fiscal 2003, 2004, 2005 and 2006 (including the interim periods within those years) and the first quarter of fiscal 2007 (collectively the "restatement period"). Dell's previously issued financial statements for those periods should no longer be relied upon.
ROUND ROCK, Texas, Aug. 16, 2007 
Restatement
     The restatement will correct the accounting errors and irregularities that have been identified through the Audit Committee investigation and by management as a result of its additional reviews. The accounting
1
 
errors and irregularities that will be corrected are significant because of the combination of the number of issues identified, the qualitative nature of many of the issues, and in some cases, the dollar amounts involved. Many of the adjustments offset each other during the restatement period, and most relate to the timing of the recognition of income and expenses. Consequently, the restatement is expected to have the following effects:
2
 
Scope of Investigation; Summary of Findings
     The investigation, which began August 2006, involved more than 375 professionals deployed across all the company's major regions. The investigation team evaluated more than five million documents, conducted more than 200 interviews of company personnel, and reviewed thousands of journal entries and supporting documentation.
     The investigation raised questions relating to numerous accounting issues, most of which involved adjustments to various reserve and accrued liability accounts. The investigation identified evidence that certain adjustments appear to have been motivated by the objective of attaining financial targets. According to the investigation, these activities typically occurred at the close of a quarter. The investigation found evidence that, in that timeframe, account balances were reviewed, sometimes at the request or with the knowledge of senior executives, with the goal of seeking adjustments so that quarterly performance objectives could be met. The investigation concluded that a number of these adjustments were improper, including the creation and release of accruals and reserves that appear to have been made for the purpose of enhancing internal performance measures or reported results, as well as the transfer of excess accruals from one liability
3
 
account to another and the use of the excess balances to offset unrelated expenses in later periods. The investigation found that sometimes business unit personnel did not provide complete information to corporate headquarters and, in a number of instances, purposefully incorrect or incomplete information about these activities was provided to internal or external auditors.
Identification of Control Deficiencies
     As a result of the investigation issues, as well as other issues separately identified by management, current management has concluded the company did not maintain an effective control environment, including a tone and control consciousness that consistently emphasized strict adherence to Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP). In addition, current management has concluded that the company did not maintain effective controls over the period-end reporting process, including controls with respect to the review, supervision and monitoring of accounting operations.
     Management expects to conclude that these control deficiencies constituted material weaknesses in the company's internal control over financial reporting. Management's report on internal control over financial reporting will be included in our Fiscal 2007 10-K filing.
     "The rigorous examination of our accounting and finance processes, along with the remedial actions taken and planned, have made and will continue to make Dell a far stronger company and provide a solid foundation on which to move the business forward, reinforce our standards and focus our energy on serving our customers," said Donald J. Carty, Dell's vice chairman and chief financial officer.
4
 
Remedial Action
     In response to the investigation's findings, management has undertaken a number of remedial actions that are in various stages of completion and will continue to be implemented going forward. These actions are an important step in the process of ensuring confidence in leadership and financial reporting and focus on these areas:
5
 
     Mr. Carty said that management is working with the Audit Committee to develop a detailed plan and timetable for the full implementation of remedial actions and will provide regular updates to the committee.
     "We are committed to achieving and maintaining a strong control environment, high ethical standards and financial reporting integrity," said Michael Dell, chairman and CEO. "This commitment will be communicated to every Dell employee and external stakeholder. It is accompanied by renewed management focus on decision-making and processes intended to drive long-term shareholder value."
Ongoing SEC Investigation
As previously disclosed, the Audit Committee investigation began as a result of concerns raised by documents and information discovered in the course of responding to requests from the Enforcement Division of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") in connection with an investigation into certain of our accounting and financial reporting practices. While the restatement will address all of the issues identified in the Audit Committee investigation and in the additional reviews conducted by management, the SEC's investigation is ongoing, and there can be no assurance that there will not be additional issues or matters arising from that investigation.
Investor Conference Call and Shareholder Meeting Scheduled
     Dell will conduct an investor conference call today (Thursday, Aug. 16) at 5:15 p.m CDT to discuss the completion of the Audit Committee's Independent Investigation. The conference call number in the U.S. is (877) 253-8088, the international dial-in number is (706) 643-0125, and the passcode is: Dell. The call will also be available online at: http://www.dell.com/investor. A replay of the investor call, beginning at 9:15 CDT Aug. 16, will be available through Aug. 18, 12 a.m. CDT at: U.S., (800) 642-1687; International, (706) 645-9291; Conference ID is 13409585.
     Dell will announce preliminary Q2 fiscal year 2008 results on Aug. 30, 2007, and, expects to submit its past due form 10-K and 10-Q documents by the first week of November. Its annual meeting of shareholders is being planned for Dec. 4, 2007, and the company will soon update plans for its analyst meeting.
     In connection with the upcoming annual meeting of shareholders, Dell is reopening the period during which shareholders can present proposals for consideration at the meeting. A shareholder who desires to present a proposal must submit the proposal no later than the close of business on Oct. 5, 2007. In order for a proposal to be eligible for inclusion in the proxy statement relating to the meeting, it must be received before the close of business on Aug. 31, 2007.
6
 
About Dell
Dell Inc. (NASDAQ: DELL) listens to customers and delivers innovative technology and services they trust and value. Uniquely enabled by its direct business model, Dell is a leading global systems and services company and No. 34 on the Fortune 500. For more information, visit , or to communicate directly with Dell via a variety of online channels, go to . To get Dell news direct, visit .
www.dell.com
www.dell.com/conversations
www.dell.com/RSS
Special Note
Statements in this press release that relate to future results and events (including statements about expected materiality or significance and the quantitative effects of the restatement) are forward-looking statements based on Dell's current expectations. Actual results, as well as Dell's expectations regarding materiality or significance, the restatement's quantitative effects, the effectiveness of disclosure controls and procedures, and deficiencies in internal control over financial reporting, may differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements because of a number of risks and uncertainties, including: the risk that additional information may arise during the completion of our work on the restatement, our independent auditor's review of the investigation and its audit work, or the Audit Committee's final review of the investigation and the restated financial statements, or as a result of other subsequent events; any additional issues or matters arising from the ongoing SEC investigation; our ability to successfully remediate identified internal control deficiencies; our ability to meet NASDAQ requirements for continued listing as a result of our past due periodic report filings; general economic, business and industry conditions; our ability to maintain a cost advantage over our
7
 
competitors; local economic and labor conditions, political instability, unexpected regulatory changes, trade protection measures, tax laws, copyright levies and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; our ability to accurately predict product, customer and geographic sales mix and seasonal sales trends; information technology and manufacturing infrastructure failures; our ability to effectively manage periodic product transitions; our reliance on third-party suppliers for quality product components, including reliance on several single-source or limited-source suppliers; our ability to access the capital markets; litigation and governmental investigations or proceedings arising out of or related to accounting and financial reporting matters; our acquisition of other companies; our ability to properly manage the distribution of our products and services; effective hedging of our exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates; obtaining licenses to intellectual property developed by others on commercially reasonable and competitive terms; our ability to attract, retain and motivate key personnel; loss of government contracts; expiration of tax holidays or favorable tax rate structures; changing environmental laws; and the effect of armed hostilities, terrorism, natural disasters and public health issues. Additional discussion of factors affecting Dell's business and prospects is contained in Dell's periodic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
8


