FILE:DELL/DELL-8K-20080828161524.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
______
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
______
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported):
August 28, 2008
______
Dell Inc.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
(
Registrants telephone number, including area code:
512) 338-4400
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 - 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 - 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 2.02 
Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On August 28, 2008, Dell Inc. issued a press release announcing its financial results for its fiscal quarter ended August 1, 2008.  A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
Item 9.01 
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) .  
Exhibits
Exhibit 99.1 Press Release issued by Dell Inc., dated August 28, 2008.
2
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
3
EXHIBIT INDEX
4

Exhibit 99.1
Share Gains in All Product Categories and Regions Fuel Dell Revenue Increase in Second Quarter
Industry-leading Growth in Enterprise Portfolio and Solutions
Profitability Impacted By Strategic Investments To Drive Long-Term Growth
ROUND ROCK, Texas--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Dell reported fiscal second quarter revenue of $16.4 billion, up 11 percent year-over-year and driven by a 19 percent increase in worldwide product shipments. Earnings per share were $0.31 and cash flow from operations was $1.1 billion.
We are positioning Dell to win in a new era of global IT spending, said Michael Dell, chairman and CEO. We have our most competitive product portfolio ever  whether for digital nomads or hyper-scaled data centers. Our growth at a multiple of the industry across all major product categories for the second consecutive quarter affirms we are on track with our five key business priorities  notebooks, consumer, enterprise, SMB and emerging countries.
Operating income was $819 million, or 5 percent of revenue. Gross margins in the quarter were adversely affected by actions to drive growth in strategic areas like Global Consumer and EMEA, as well as an increase in deferred revenue from the sale of successful service offerings in EMEA, which will be recognized in subsequent periods.
Dells productivity improvements gained momentum in the quarter with operating expenses at 12.2 percent of revenue, a decrease of 1.6 percentage points and the lowest level for Dell in six quarters. Dells tax rate in the quarter was 26.4 percent.
In the quarter, the company absorbed $27 million of expense for the amortization of purchased intangibles and $25 million in business realignment costs. Each expense was worth about $0.01 in earnings per share. The company remains committed to achieving annualized cost reductions of at least $3 billion by the end of fiscal year 2011.
We are making progress in improving productivity and reducing costs, said Brian Gladden, Dell CFO. Strategic actions to accelerate growth in certain areas of our business affected gross margins this quarter and there will be some non-linearity in the improvements in our operating income margins as we rebalance our portfolio, make cost improvements and drive growth.
Dell ended the quarter with $9.5 billion in cash and investments and weighted average shares were 2 billion, a 12 percent reduction. The company spent $1.4 billion to repurchase 60 million shares of stock.
Continued actions have reduced headcount by more than 8,500 in the past year, excluding increases from acquisitions. In the third quarter, the company will attain the goal of 8,900 it set for reductions a little more than a year ago. On an ongoing basis, Dell will invest in strategic growth areas, while focusing on scaling costs and improving productivity.
Business Unit Summaries
: Revenue in the quarter grew by 16 percent to more than $2 billion and shipments were up 16 percent. Profitability increased 10 percent. Product mix was balanced, with growth in total shipments more than triple the industry. Dell increased share by 1.7 points. Mobility led shipment gains, increasing 27 percent and servers were up 21 percent. Revenue for storage increased 31 percent.
Asia-Pacific and Japan Commercial
Revenue increased 5 percent to $8.1 billion on a 7 percent increase in units as Dell remained the regions No. 1 provider of systems. While operating income declined, profitability improved sequentially by almost 20 percent, reflecting balanced growth across products. Server shipments grew 18 percent against flat industry growth. Mobility units increased 12 percent.
Americas Commercial:
Revenue increased 11 percent to $3.5 billion and shipments were up 20 percent. Strategic growth initiatives and an increase in deferred services revenue caused a decline in operating income. Server units were up 18 percent, the fastest growth among the top five vendors, and almost 1.6 times the rate of the industry. Shipments of notebooks increased 52 percent, also ahead of the industry rate. Storage revenue increased 17 percent.
Europe, Middle East and Africa Commercial:
Worldwide shipments increased 53 percent and share was up 1.6 points to 9.1 percent. Dell shipped more than twice as many consumer laptops this quarter as it did a year ago, driving revenue up 28 percent to $2.8 billion. Profitability was roughly break-even as the business expanded its retail presence and absorbed a litigation expense of $18 million.
Global Consumer:
Strategic Priority Highlights
Dell increased its share in servers worldwide by 3 points. Server revenues were up 5 percent on a 19 percent increase in units, more than 2.5 times the industry growth rate. Growth in the quarter benefited from the success of Dells cloud computing initiatives featuring energy-efficient Dell custom solutions. Storage revenue improved 11 percent, led by Dells Power Vault disk products and EqualLogic iSCSI networked storage solutions. Enhanced services revenue was up 14 percent to $1.5 billion driven by an 18 percent increase in the new ProSupport services. Dells deferred services balance increased 22 percent, or $1 billion, for a total deferred services revenue balance of $5.7 billion. Dell released its broadest lineup of dedicated virtualization solutions ever in the quarter, including more than a dozen new servers, tools and services, as part of its mission to help companies of all sizes simplify their IT environments.
Enterprise:
Notebook units grew 44 percent with revenue growth of 26 percent. Dell recently announced a completely new line of Latitude and Dell Precision laptops, ranging from the lightest ultra-portable in the companys history, to the most powerful mobile workstation. The new Latitude systems provide breakthrough battery life, brilliant new design and style, changes inspired by close collaboration with end users. Coinciding with the introduction of Dells new laptops, the company launched a new community site called Digital Nomads for individuals who desire to always be connected for work and play no matter their location.
Notebooks:
: In BRIC (Brazil, Russia, India, China), Dell outperformed all major competitors across all product categories with revenue growth of 41 percent on a 46 percent increase in units, or at more than three times the industry growth rate, as the company gained 2.4 points of share. BRIC now accounts for more than 9 percent of Dells revenue. Approximately 47 percent of Dells overall revenue came from outside the U.S. in the quarter. Dell this week introduced new Vostro A laptops and desktops designed specifically for cost-sensitive growing businesses in emerging economies.
Emerging Countries
Dell increased its worldwide share with shipment growth of 8 percent and a revenue increase of 5 percent. In the quarter, the company responded to customer need for highly capable and affordable storage to support data-intensive applications with the Dell PowerVault MD1120, its first storage expansion enclosure designed with small form-factor 2.5-inch disk drives.
Small Medium Business:
Company Outlook
Dell intends to continue executing against its five growth priorities and actions to improve competitiveness, with the goal of optimizing growth, earnings and cash flow. Dell will continue to incur costs as it realigns its business to improve competitiveness, reduce headcount and invest in infrastructure and acquisitions. The company sees continued conservatism in IT spending in the U.S., which has extended into Western Europe and several countries in Asia. Demand also is impacted by currency fluctuations. Dell will continue to benefit from improving performance in areas such as emerging countries, notebooks, and enterprise and services, which collectively are driving a more diversified portfolio of geographies and products. The company continues to work aggressively on cost initiatives that will benefit its P&L over time with improved growth, profitability and cash flow.
About Dell
Dell Inc. (NASDAQ: DELL) listens to customers and delivers innovative technology and services they trust and value. Uniquely enabled by its direct business model, Dell is a leading global systems and services company and No. 34 on the Fortune 500. For more information, visit , or to communicate directly with Dell via a variety of online channels, go to . To get Dell news direct, visit .
www.dell.com
www.dell.com/dellshares
www.dell.com/RSS
Special Note
Statements in this press release that relate to future results and events (including statements about future financial and operating performance) are forward-looking statements based on Dell's current expectations.
Actual results and events in future periods could differ materially from those projected in these forward-looking statements because of a number of risks and uncertainties including: general economic, business and industry conditions; our ability to re-establish a cost advantage over our competitors; local economic and labor conditions, political instability, unexpected regulatory changes, trade protection measures, tax laws, copyright levies and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; our ability to accurately predict product, customer and geographic sales mix and seasonal sales trends; information technology and manufacturing infrastructure failures; our ability to effectively manage periodic product transitions;
disruptions in component or product availability; our ability to maintain a strong internal control environment; our reliance on third-party suppliers for quality product components, including reliance on several single-source or limited-source suppliers; our ability to access the capital markets; unfavorable results of legal proceeding could harm our business and result in substantial costs; our acquisition of other companies; our ability to properly manage the distribution of our products and services; our cost-cutting measures; effective hedging of our exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates; obtaining licenses to intellectual property developed by others on commercially reasonable and competitive terms; our ability to attract, retain and motivate key personnel; loss of government contracts; expiration of tax holidays or favorable tax rate structures; changing environmental laws; and the effect of armed hostilities, terrorism, natural disasters and public health issues.
For a discussion of those and other factors affecting Dells business and prospects, see Dells periodic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Consolidated statements of income, financial position and cash flows follow.
Dell is a trademark of Dell Inc.
Dell disclaims any proprietary interest in the marks and names of others.
Note: Ratios are calculated based on underlying data in thousands.
Days of sales outstanding (DSO) is based on the ending net trade receivables and most recent quarterly revenue for each period. DSO includes the effect of product costs related to customer shipments not yet recognized as revenue that are classified in the other current assets. At August 1, 2008, May 2, 2008 and August 3,2007, DSO and days of customer shipments not yet recognized were 35 and 3 days, 33 and 3 days and 32 and 3, respectively.
(1)
Prior period amounts have been revised to reflect a reclassification between short-term and long-term deferred service revenue.
(2)
CONTACT: Dell Inc., Round Rock David Frink, 512-728-2678 or Jess Blackburn, 512-728-8295 or Lynn Tyson, 512-723-1130 or Robert Williams, 512-728-7570
Media Contacts: 512-728-4100
david_frink@dell.com
jess_blackburn@dell.com
Investor Relations Contacts:
lynn_tyson@dell.com
robert_williams@dell.com


