FILE:DELL/DELL-8K-20080424110028.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
________
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
________
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported):
April 22, 2008
________
Dell Inc.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
Registrants telephone number, including area code:
(512) 338-4400
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 - 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 - 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 8.01     Other Events.
On April 24, 2008, Dell issued a press release announcing that it has completed its acquisition of MessageOne, Inc., an industry leader in Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) enabled enterprise-class e-mail business continuity, compliance, archiving and disaster recovery services. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
Item 9.01 -   Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Exhibit 99.1 Press Release issued by Dell Inc., dated April 24, 2008.
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit 99.1
Dell Completes MessageOne Acquisition
Gets SaaS-y about Services
ROUND ROCK, Texas--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Dell today announced the completion of its $155 million acquisition of MessageOne, Inc., an industry leader in Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) enabled enterprise-class e-mail business continuity, compliance, archiving and disaster recovery services. The acquisition is a part of the companys strategy to use SaaS applications and remote management tools to deliver configure-to-order IT infrastructure services to commercial customers over the Internet.
With its acquisition of SilverBack Technologies, Inc., Everdream Corp., ASAP Software Express, Inc. and now MessageOne, Dell is architecting an integrated service delivery platform of SaaS applications that will enable it to remotely monitor, maintain, troubleshoot and address the majority of routine IT infrastructure issues that challenge businesses of all sizes. The company anticipates that services such as patch management, anti-virus, online backup and recovery, asset tracking, software license management and e-mail continuity delivered and managed over the Internet will reduce the cost of infrastructure management and free budget for the IT driven innovation that grows business.
Companies currently spend 70 percent of their IT budgets maintaining their current infrastructures and dealing with routine issues, said Steve Schuckenbrock, president, Dell Global Services. We are building a services supply chain that integrates the worlds leading SaaS-based technologies to simplify the purchase, delivery and management of IT infrastructure services for companies and improve its price/performance.
In a departure from traditional industry approaches that lock customers into long-term, expensive contracts, Dells model will give companies choice and flexibility in the services they purchase.
MessageOne is an important addition to Dells services portfolio. The companys services eliminate the downtime and complexity associated with managing, archiving, e-discovery and the long-term storage of e-mail. MessageOne estimates that 75 percent of all companies experience a major e-mail outage each year and with 75 percent of most companies intellectual property (IP) contained in messages and attachments transmitted via e-mail, it is now considered a killer application with importance to every aspect of business operations and customer relationships.
*
**
Dells MessageOne solutions include E-mail Management Services (EMS), which ensure seamless continuity by keeping Outlook and wireless messaging systems running even when Exchange and Active Directory are down and AlertFind, which provides emergency notification and crisis communication services for businesses. MessageOnes e-mail archiving services help companies comply with regulations, streamline electronic discovery and maximize storage. MessageOnes services are available today to companies with more than 1,000 seats through Dells sales force and will be available to medium businesses and through Dell channel partners in the future.
Additional information about this acquisition can be found on and Direct2Dell.
www.dell.com
About Dell
Dell Inc. (NASDAQ: DELL) listens to customers and delivers innovative technology and services they trust and value. Uniquely enabled by its direct business model, Dell is a leading global systems and services company and No. 34 on the Fortune 500. For more information, visit , or to communicate directly with Dell via a variety of online channels, go to . To get Dell news direct, visit .
www.dell.com
www.dell.com/conversations
www.dell.com/RSS
MessageOne survey of customer activations
*
Enterprise Strategy Group, Insurance Day, 2005
**
Special Note
Statements in this press release that relate to future results and events (including statements about the expected benefits of the acquisition) are forward-looking statements based on Dell's current expectations.
Actual results and events in future periods could
differ materially from those projected in these forward-looking statements because of a number of
risks and uncertainties including: general economic, business and industry conditions;our ability to restore our competitive advantage; local economic and labor conditions, political instability, unexpected regulatory changes, trade protection measures, and changes in tax laws; our ability to accurately predict product, customer and geographic sales mix and seasonal sales trends; information technology and manufacturing infrastructure failures; our ability to effectively manage periodic product transitions; any additional issues or matters that may arise from the ongoing SEC investigation; our ability to maintain effective internal controls; our reliance on third-party suppliers for quality product components, including reliance on several single-source or limited-source suppliers; our ability to access the capital markets; litigation and governmental investigations or proceedings; our acquisition of other companies; our ability to properly manage the distribution of our products and services; effective hedging of our exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates; obtaining licenses to intellectual property developed by others on commercially reasonable and competitive terms; our ability to attract, retain and motivate key personnel; loss of government contracts; expiration of tax holidays or favorable tax rate structures; changing environmental laws; and the effect of armed hostilities, terrorism, natural disasters and public health issues.
For a discussion of those and other factors affecting Dells business and prospects, see Dells periodic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
CONTACT: Dell Inc., Round Rock or Cathie Hargett, 512-728-7347 cathie_ or Jess Blackburn, 512-728-8295 jess_ or Lynn Tyson, 512-723-1130 lynn_ or Robert Williams, 512-728-7570 robert_
Media Contacts: 512-728-4100
hargett@dell.com
blackburn@dell.com
Investor Relations Contacts:
tyson@dell.com
williams@dell.com


