FILE:DELL/DELL-8K-20080128164430.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
________
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
________
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported):
January 28, 2008
________
Dell Inc.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
Registrants telephone number, including area code:
(512) 338-4400
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 - 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 - 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 8.01     Other Events.
On January 28, 2008, Dell issued a press release announcing that it has completed its acquisition of EqualLogic, Inc., a leading provider of high-performance iSCSI storage area network solutions. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
Item 9.01     Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Exhibit 99.1 Press Release issued by Dell Inc., dated January 28, 2008.
2
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
3
EXHIBIT INDEX
4

Exhibit 99.1
Dell Completes EqualLogic Acquisition
Broadens Storage Portfolio, Doubles Down on Channel
ROUND ROCK, Texas & NASHUA, N.H.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Dell (NASDAQ: DELL) has completed its $1.4 billion acquisition of EqualLogic, a leading provider of high-performance storage area network (SAN) solutions designed for virtualization and ease-of-use. The purchase extends Dells leadership in simplifying IT for customers and partners. For additional information, click on dell.com/storage.
Virtualization and iSCSI are two keys to simplifying IT, said Michael Dell, chairman and CEO, Dell. Enterprises are creating data and consuming power at an exponential rate, driving up IT cost and complexity. Together with our PartnerDirect channel, well use iSCSI and virtualization to make storing and processing data easier and more affordable for our customers.
Customers face extreme challenges with data growth, said Darren Thomas, vice president and general manager, Dell storage. Their ideal solution is secure storage that uses existing infrastructure, installs in minutes not days, manages itself, grows easily as needs increase and plugs into the virtualized IT ecosystem. Thats EqualLogic. And thats the incredible value we will deliver to customers.
EqualLogic Expands Dell PartnerDirect
Dell plans to preserve and build on EqualLogics successful channel program in addition to offering products directly from Dell. Starting today in the United States and ultimately around the world, current EqualLogic partners will be enrolled into PartnerDirect and eligible for Dells newest certification - Enterprise Architecture.
Dell modeled its certification requirements and benefits on EqualLogics widely-regarded channel program and included access to Dells full server and storage product lines.
The channel is critical to our go-to-market strategy, and we are committed to our partners continued success, said Bob Skelley, director, Americas Channel Group. This is just the beginning. Dell will continue to innovate and differentiate to earn the business of our channel partners.
In addition to standard benefits offered through PartnerDirect - deal registration, pre- and post-sale support, partner financing and access to Dells partner e-commerce site - partners certified in Enterprise Architecture will be able to take advantage of:
Free training (once only available to Dells direct sales force) for proficiency in Dells full enterprise product line, as well as EqualLogic;
EqualLogics same competitive pricing model; and
Lead generation and marketing incentive funds.
About Dell
Dell Inc. (NASDAQ: DELL) listens to customers and delivers innovative technology and services they trust and value. Uniquely enabled by its direct business model, Dell is a leading global systems and services company and No. 34 on the Fortune 500. For more information, visit www.dell.com, or to communicate directly with Dell via a variety of online channels, go to www.dell.com/conversations. To get Dell news direct, visit www.dell.com/RSS.
Special Note
Statements in this press release that relate to future results and events (including statements about the expected benefits of the EqualLogic acquisition to Dell customers and partners) are forward-looking statements based on Dell's current expectations. Actual results and events in future periods could differ materially from those projected in these forward-looking statements because of a number of risks and uncertainties, including: whether the EqualLogic acquisition ultimately proves successful; the impact of general economic, business and industry conditions; our ability to maintain a cost advantage over our competitors; our ability to properly manage and balance various product distribution methods without harming our operating results; our ability to effectively manage product transitions; and any additional issues or matters that may arise from the ongoing SEC investigation.
For a discussion of those and other factors affecting Dells business and prospects, see Dells periodic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
CONTACT: Dell, Round Rock David Graves, 512-632-0011 david_graves@dell.com or David Lord, 512-723-8446 david_lord@dell.com or Lynn Tyson, 512-723-1130 lynn_tyson@dell.com or Robert Williams, 512-728-7570 robert_williams@dell.com
Media Contacts:
Investor Contacts:


