FILE:DELL/DELL-8K-20080228165946.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
______________
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15 (d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
______________
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported):
February 28, 2008
______________
Dell Inc.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
(
Registrants telephone number, including area code:  
512) 338-4400
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 - 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 - 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 2.02 - Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On February 28, 2008, Dell Inc. issued a press release announcing its financial results for its fiscal quarter ended February 1, 2008. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
Item 9.01 - Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) .
Exhibits
Exhibit 99.1 Press Release issued by Dell Inc., dated February 28, 2008.
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit 99.1
Dells Business Priorities Drive Revenue up 10 Percent in 4
th
Quarter
Notebooks, Accelerating Sales Outside U.S. Highlight Q4 as Revenue Reaches $16 Billion
ROUND ROCK, Texas--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Dell (NASDAQ:DELL) today reported results for its fourth quarter of fiscal year 2008, with revenue up 10 percent year-over-year to $16 billion, unit growth of 19 percent, operating income of $776 million and earnings per share of $0.31. Revenue for the full fiscal year was $61.1 billion, an increase of 6 percent year-over-year and earnings per share grew 15 percent to $1.31.
Cash from operations totaled $1.2 billion, while cash and marketable securities at the end of the quarter were $9.5 billion. Dell resumed its share-repurchase program during the quarter, and spent $4 billion to repurchase 179 million shares of common stock. In the first quarter of fiscal 2009 the company expects to spend at least $1 billion to repurchase its shares.
Execution against our priorities continues to drive growth, said Michael Dell, chairman and CEO. As businesses and consumers worldwide join the Connected Age -- one thats underscored by more data, more devices and more users -- we see enormous opportunities to enable them to Simplify IT and participate.
All comparisons in this press release are year-over-year unless otherwise noted.
Earnings per share in the quarter were affected by the following items:
$83 million in expense, or four cents per share, related to the write-off of in-process research and development resulting from the acquisitions of EqualLogic and Everdream;
$54 million in expense, or two cents per share, related to business realignment, including severance costs and facility closures;
$27 million in expense, or one cent per share, in investigation related costs;
$11 million in amortization expense of purchased intangible assets;
A reduction in a litigation reserve related to copyright levies of $58 million, or three cents per share; and,
A $44 million expense reduction, or one cent per share, related to an annual true-up for the full-year of stock award forfeiture credits related to SFAS123R stock-based compensation expense.
In the companys fiscal 2007 fourth quarter, earnings per share were affected by the following items:
$207 million reduction in the provision for employee bonuses, or seven cents per share;
$89 million in expense, or three cents per share, in investigation related costs; and,
A $36 million one-time gain on the sale of real estate, in financing and other income, or one cent per share.
These items for both quarters are recognized in different tax jurisdictions and therefore are tax-effected at different rates.
The company is addressing cost and productivity across its entire operations. Over the last eight months the company has reduced its global headcount by 3,200, excluding acquisitions. Dell has also accelerated its product refresh cycles with a renewed emphasis on cost, product design and product features. The award winning Dell Inspiron 1525 went from concept to manufacturing in less than half the time of its predecessor and costs were reduced $70 per unit.
While Dell continues to drive towards a world-class cost structure and competitiveness we have much work to do, Mr. Dell said. Resurgent growth puts us on a strong footing to improve our cost position, scale expenses and enhance productivity across our business. I am confident that from this base we can continue to drive improvements in profitability.
Dells achievements in the fourth quarter were led by continued growth in countries outside the United States, where sales were up 16 percent and accounted for 49 percent of the companys total revenues. Growth was especially strong in BRIC (Brazil, Russia, India and China) countries where revenue grew 36 percent on a 50 percent increase in units. Growth was also strong in Asia Pacific and Japan where revenue grew 28 percent and units were up 41 percent. Americas International revenue grew 22 percent.
Driven by new products, the company increased mobility revenues by 24 percent and unit shipments were up 37 percent. During the year, Dell won more than 400 awards for its products and its notebooks were among the most recognized, demonstrating the companys significant attention to innovative design and customer experience. Services revenue was up seven percent and the companys deferred services revenue balance grew 25 percent to $5.3 billion.
Q4 Execution Highlights Against Business Priorities Include:
-- Consumer: New strategic partnerships with Best Buy in the U.S.;   Tesco and Dixon's Stores (DSGi) based in the U.K. and Carrefour   based in France. More than 10,000 retail stores worldwide now offer   Dell products.- -- Enterprise: Dell continued to Simplify IT with the:    -- Dell PowerEdge M-Series blade server solution delivering 28       percent better performance per-watt than competitive solutions;    -- Dell EqualLogic PS5000 Series, an iSCSI SAN array with a       revolutionary architecture to serve as the backbone for data       center storage and virtualization;    -- Dell ProSupport - flexible, scalable and configurable services       offerings that challenge the way services are traditionally       delivered.- -- Notebooks: Richer multimedia with slim packaging with the new:    -- XPS M1530 and the Inspiron 1525; and,    -- Latitude XT, one of the thinnest and lightest 12.1-inch       convertible tablets available.- -- Small and Medium Business: New products included the Dell AX4-5,   an entry-level storage area network (SAN) solution. PartnerDirect   increases and formalizes Dell's support for its growing family of   30,000 Partners worldwide serving small and medium businesses.- -- Emerging Countries: Dell deepened its support for Emerging   Countries, adding a second manufacturing facility in Europe,   located in Lodz, Poland.
Regional Highlights
Revenues were up 7 percent for the quarter and shipments increased 13 percent driven by a 22 percent increase in revenues from Americas International. Revenue in Brazil, a key emerging country for Dell, grew 52 percent. Dell maintained its No. 1 position in the U.S. commercial segment with 35 percent of all units shipped in the quarter, according to industry analyst estimates. As the quarter progressed, Dell saw more conservative spending by some of it customers, particularly in global accounts, including financial services.
Americas Business Unit:
Revenue growth accelerated to 12 percent driven by a 25 percent increase in shipments. Unit share increased by over three points  the largest quarterly gain in over three years. New product offerings and expansion into retail contributed to this performance.
U.S. Consumer:
: Revenue in the quarter grew by 28 percent on a 41 percent increase in units. APJ growth was strong across all product categories and led by performance in India, China and Australia/New Zealand, where revenue grew year over year 57 percent, 32 percent, and 29 percent, respectively. Shipments of notebooks increased 71 percent year over year for the region.
Asia-Pacific and Japan (APJ)
Revenue increased 8 percent and shipments were up 14 percent. Shipments of notebooks increased 36 percent for the quarter and mobility revenue was up 25 percent. Revenues in EMEA emerging countries increased 44 percent.
Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA):
Company Outlook
The company will continue to incur costs as it realigns its business to improve growth and profitability. While the company believes these actions are necessary to drive long-term sustainable value, they may adversely impact the companys near-term performance. In addition the companys results could be adversely impacted by more conservative spending by its customers. The company is, however, benefiting from accelerating growth and an improving mix of products and geographic regions, and the company expects to achieve substantial improvements in cost and productivity.
Analyst Meeting Update
The Company plans to conduct an analyst meeting on April 2 and 3, 2008, in Round Rock, Texas.
About Dell
Dell Inc. (NASDAQ:DELL) listens to customers and delivers innovative technology and services they trust and value. Uniquely enabled by its direct business model, Dell is a leading global systems and services company and No. 34 on the Fortune 500. For more information, visit www.dell.com, or to communicate directly with Dell via a variety of online channels, go to dellshares. To get Dell news direct, visit www.dell.com/RSS.
www.dell.com/
Special Note
Statements in this press release that relate to future results and events (including statements about future financial and operating performance) are forward-looking statements based on Dell's current expectations.
Actual results and events in future periods could differ materially from those projected in these forward-looking statements because of a number of risks and uncertainties including: general economic, business and industry conditions; our ability to maintain a cost advantage over our competitors; local economic and labor conditions, political instability, unexpected regulatory changes, trade protection measures, tax laws, copyright levies and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; our ability to accurately predict product, customer and geographic sales mix and seasonal sales trends; information technology and manufacturing infrastructure failures; our ability to effectively manage periodic product transitions; any additional issues or matters that may arise from the ongoing SEC investigation; our ability to successfully remediate identified internal control deficiencies; our reliance on third-party suppliers for quality product components, including reliance on several single-source or limited-source suppliers; our ability to access the capital markets; litigation and governmental investigations or proceedings arising out of or related to accounting and financial reporting matters; our acquisition of other companies; our ability to properly manage the distribution of our products and services; effective hedging of our exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates; obtaining licenses to intellectual property developed by others on commercially reasonable and competitive terms; our ability to attract, retain and motivate key personnel; loss of government contracts; expiration of tax holidays or favorable tax rate structures; changing environmental laws; and the effect of armed hostilities, terrorism, natural disasters and public health issues.
For a discussion of those and other factors affecting Dells business and prospects, see Dells periodic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Consolidated statements of income, financial position and cash flows follow.
Dell is a trademark of Dell Inc.
Dell disclaims any proprietary interest in the marks and names of others.
CONTACT: Dell Inc., Round Rock David Frink, 512-728-2678 david_frink@dell.com or Jess Blackburn, 512-728-8295 jess_blackburn@dell.com or Lynn Tyson, 512-723-1130 lynn_tyson@dell.com or Robert Williams, 512-728-7570 robert_williams@dell.com
Media Contacts: 512-728-4100
Investor Relations Contacts:


