FILE:DELL/DELL-8K-20090713160230.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported):
July 13, 2009
Dell Inc.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
(
Registrants telephone number, including area code:
512) 338-4400
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 - 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 - 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 8.01 
Other Events.
On July 13, 2009, Dell Inc. issued a press release with respect to its fiscal quarter ending July 31, 2009.  A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
Item 9.01 
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) .
Exhibits
Exhibit 99.1 Press Release issued by Dell Inc., dated July 13, 2009.
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit 99.1
Dell Seeing Demand Stabilization, Expects Slight Sequential Revenue Growth with Modest Margin Pressure in Q2
Company to Describe Strategic Priorities, Emphasize Enterprise Technology, at Analyst Meeting
Targeting 5-7 Percent Sales Growth, 7-Plus Percent Operating Income Over Time, Based on Improving Global IT Spending
ROUND ROCK, Texas--(BUSINESS WIRE)--July 13, 2009--Dell said today year-over-year demand for its information-technology products appears to have stabilized, and that it expects to report a slight sequential revenue increase in its fiscal second-quarter 2010, which ends July 31. The company also anticipates a modest decline in Q2 gross margins, the result of higher component costs, a competitive pricing environment, and an unfavorable mix of product and business-segment demand.
Speaking in advance of a Tuesday meeting in Austin with securities and industry analysts, Brian Gladden, the companys chief financial officer, said that while demand for Dells products and services seems to have stabilized, it varies significantly by customer segment and geography.
He added that Dell remains focused on optimizing liquidity, profitability and growth in the midst of a still-challenging operating environment, and is on course to reduce annual costs by more than $4 billion by the end of fiscal 2011. Reductions are coming from a combination of greater efficiencies in design and procurement, optimization of manufacturing and supply chain logistics, and ongoing reductions in operating expenses.
The company stated that, over a longer time horizon, it will be targeting 5 to 7 percent compounded annual sales growth, operating income at or above 7 percent of revenue, and cash flow from operations exceeding net income. However, such results are dependent on broad global economic improvement accompanied by higher worldwide IT spending, including a sustained double-digit growth rate in demand for computer systems.
We continue to believe that customers are deferring IT purchases, and that we will see demand return to more typical levels at some point, Mr. Gladden said. In the meantime, we continue focusing our energy and resources on the operating initiatives that will improve the company, and position us for future success.
One of our strengths is understanding customer needs and meeting them with great technology and services. To do that best were investing to expand on existing capabilities and extend into new areas, while smartly and efficiently managing our costs and assets.
Tuesdays meeting begins at 8 a.m. CDT and will be Webcast live and archived at .
www.Dell.com/investor
About Dell
Dell Inc. (NASDAQ: DELL) listens to customers and delivers innovative technology and services they trust and value. Uniquely enabled by its direct business model, Dell is a leading global systems and services company and No. 33 on the Fortune 500. For more information, visit , or to communicate directly with Dell via a variety of online channels, go to . To get Dell news direct, visit .
www.dell.com
www.dell.com/conversations
www.dell.com/RSS
Special Note
:
)
Statements in this press release that relate to future results and events (including statements about our future financial and operating performance, anticipated customer demand, future industry product shipments, anticipated product component costs, the global economic recovery and future cost reductions
are forward-looking statements based on Dell's current expectations.
Actual results and events in future periods may differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements because of a number of risks, uncertainties and other factors, including:
weakening global economic conditions and instability in financial markets; our ability to reestablish a cost advantage over our competitors; our ability to generate substantial non-U.S. net revenue; our ability to accurately predict product, customer and geographic sales mix and seasonal sales trends; information technology and manufacturing infrastructure failures and breaches in data security; our ability to effectively manage periodic product transitions; disruptions in component or product availability; our reliance on vendors for quality product components, including reliance on several single-source or limited-source suppliers; our ability to access the capital markets; risks relating to our internal controls; unfavorable results of legal proceedings; our acquisition of other companies; our ability to properly manage the distribution of our products and services; the success of
our cost-cutting measures; effective hedging of our exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates; counterparty default risks; obtaining licenses to intellectual property developed by others on commercially reasonable and competitive terms; our ability to attract, retain and motivate key personnel; loss of government contracts; expiration of tax holidays or favorable tax rate structures; changing environmental laws; and the effect of armed hostilities, terrorism, natural disasters and public health issues.
For a discussion of those and other factors affecting our business and prospects, see Dells periodic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
We assume no obligation to update forward-looking statements.
Dell is a trademark of Dell Inc. Dell disclaims any proprietary interest in the marks and names of others.
CONTACT: 512-728-4100 or David Frink, 512-728-2678 or Jess Blackburn, 512-728-8295 or Robert Williams, 512-728-7570
Dell
Media Contacts:
david_frink@dell.com
jess_blackburn@dell.com
Investor Relations Contacts:
robert_williams@dell.com


