FILE:DELL/DELL-8K-20091103172836.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.01. Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets.
     On November 3, 2009, Dell Inc., a Delaware corporation ("Dell"), completed its acquisition of all of the outstanding shares of the Class A common stock, par value $0.01 per share (the "Shares"), of Perot Systems Corporation, a Delaware corporation ("Perot Systems"), in accordance with the terms of the previously announced Agreement and Plan of Merger (the "Merger Agreement"), dated September 20, 2009, as amended, by and among Dell, DII  Holdings Inc., a Delaware corporation and indirect, wholly owned subsidiary of Dell (the "Purchaser"), and Perot Systems.
     Dell's acquisition of the Shares was structured as a two-step transaction, consisting of a tender offer by the Purchaser for the Shares at a price of $30.00 per Share (the "Offer Price"), without interest thereon and less any applicable withholding or stock transfer taxes, upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in the Offer to Purchase, dated October 2, 2009, and in the related Letter of Transmittal, each, as amended and supplemented from time to time, filed by Dell and the Purchaser with the Securities and Exchange Commission on October 2, 2009 (the "Offer"), followed by the merger of the Purchaser with and into Perot Systems, with Perot Systems surviving as an indirect, wholly owned subsidiary of Dell (the "Merger").
     The Offer expired at 12:00 midnight, New York City time, on Monday, November 2, 2009. Based upon information provided by BNY Mellon Shareowner Services, the depositary for the Offer, approximately 108,774,629 Shares were validly tendered and not properly withdrawn prior to the expiration of the Offer, representing approximately 87.7% of the Shares outstanding as of November 2, 2009. The depositary also informed Dell that it received commitments to tender 3,961,266 additional Shares under the guaranteed delivery procedures for the Offer. On November 3, 2009, the Purchaser accepted for payment all validly tendered and not properly withdrawn Shares (including Shares tendered to the depositary pursuant to the Offer's guaranteed delivery procedures) and will promptly make payment for such Shares in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Offer and applicable law. On November 3, 2009, Dell issued a press release announcing the successful completion of the Offer, a copy of which is filed as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
     Following the Purchaser's acceptance for payment of all validly tendered and not properly withdrawn Shares on November 3, 2009, pursuant to the terms of the Merger Agreement, the Purchaser merged with and into Perot Systems in accordance with the provisions of Delaware law that authorize the completion of the Merger as a "short form" merger without a vote or meeting of the stockholders of Perot Systems. In order to complete the Merger as a "short form" merger under Delaware law, on November 3, 2009 the Purchaser exercised its "top-up" option pursuant to the Merger Agreement, which permitted it to purchase additional Shares directly from Perot Systems for $30.00 per Share, the same price paid in the Offer. In the Merger, each Share not purchased in the Offer (other than shares held in treasury or reserved for issuance by Perot Systems and Shares held by Dell or the Purchaser or direct or indirect subsidiaries of Dell or Perot Systems, all of which were cancelled and extinguished, and Shares held by stockholders who validly exercise their appraisal rights under Delaware law) was converted into the right to receive in cash the Offer Price, without interest thereon and less applicable withholding or stock transfer taxes. Following the Merger, Perot Systems became an indirect, wholly owned subsidiary of Dell. The foregoing summary description of the Merger Agreement does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the terms of the Merger Agreement, as amended by the First Amendment to the Merger Agreement, copies of which are referenced as Exhibit 2.1 and Exhibit 2.2 hereto, respectively, and incorporated herein by reference.
     Dell's estimated cost to acquire Perot Systems and to pay all related fees and expenses was approximately 4.2 billion.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     No financial statements are required by Item 9.01(a) of Form 8-K.
     No financial statements are required by Item 9.01(b) of Form 8-K.
 
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 


