FILE:DELL/DELL-8K-20090406170058.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01  Other Events.
On April 1, 2009, Dell Inc. ("Dell") entered into an underwriting agreement ("Underwriting Agreement") with Banc of America Securities LLC, Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated, and UBS Securities LLC, as representatives of the underwriters identified therein (the "Underwriters"), relating to the issuance and sale to the Underwriters of $500 million aggregate principal amount of 5.625% Notes due 2014 ("Notes"), subject to the terms and conditions therein.
On April 6, 2009, Dell completed an underwritten public offering of the Notes. The Notes are governed by the terms of an Indenture ("Indenture"), dated April 6, 2009, between Dell and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as trustee ("Trustee"), as supplemented by a First Supplemental Indenture ("Supplemental Indenture"), dated April 6, 2009, between Dell and the Trustee.
Dell offered the Notes pursuant to the Prospectus Supplement, dated April 1, 2009, to the Prospectus dated November 4, 2008, which forms a part of Dell's shelf registration statement on Form S-3 (Registration No. 333-155041) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on November 4, 2008 (the "Registration Statement").
The Underwriting Agreement is filed as Exhibit 1.1 hereto and incorporated by reference herein and into the Registration Statement. The Indenture is filed as Exhibit 4.1 hereto and incorporated by reference herein and into the Registration Statement. The Supplemental Indenture is filed as Exhibit 4.2 hereto and incorporated by reference herein and into the Registration Statement. The form of the Notes issued pursuant to the Supplemental Indenture is filed as Exhibit 4.3 hereto and incorporated by reference herein and into the Registration Statement.
Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 1.1
April 1, 2009
BANC OF AMERICA SECURITIES LLC
MORGAN STANLEY & CO. INCORPORATED
UBS SECURITIES LLC
      As Representatives of the several Underwriters
c/o BANC OF AMERICA SECURITIES LLC
One Bryant Park
New York, NY 10036
Ladies and Gentlemen:
Dell Inc., a Delaware corporation (the ""), proposes to issue and sell to the several underwriters named in Schedule A (the ""), acting severally and not jointly, the respective amounts set forth in such Schedule A of $500,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Company's 5.625% Notes due 2014 (the ""). Banc of America Securities LLC, Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated and UBS Securities LLC have agreed to act as representatives of the several Underwriters (in such capacity, the "") in connection with the offering and sale of the Notes.
Introductory.
Company
Underwriters
Notes
Representatives
The Notes will be issued pursuant to an indenture, to be dated as of the Closing Date (the ""), between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as trustee (the ""). Certain terms of the Notes will be established pursuant to a supplemental indenture (the "") to the Base Indenture (together with the Base Indenture, the ""). The Notes will be issued in book-entry form in the name of Cede & Co., as nominee of The Depository Trust Company (the ""), pursuant to a Letter of Representations, to be dated on or before the Closing Date (as defined in Section 2 below) (the ""), among the Company, the Trustee and the Depositary.
Base Indenture
Trustee
Supplemental Indenture
Indenture
Depositary
DTC Agreement
The Company has prepared and filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "") a registration statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-155041), which contains a base prospectus (the ""), to be used in connection with the public offering and sale of debt securities, including the Notes, and other securities of the Company under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder (collectively, the ""), and the offering thereof from time to time in accordance with Rule 415 under the Securities Act. Such registration statement, including the financial statements, exhibits and schedules thereto, in the form in which it became effective under the Securities Act, including any required information deemed to be a part thereof at the time of effectiveness pursuant to Rule 430B under the Securities Act, is called the "." The term "" shall mean the final prospectus supplement relating to the Notes, together with the Base Prospectus, that is first filed pursuant to Rule 424(b) after the date and time that this Agreement is executed (the "") by the parties hereto. The term "" shall mean any preliminary prospectus supplement relating to the
Commission
Base Prospectus
Securities Act
Registration Statement
Prospectus
Execution Time
Preliminary Prospectus
 
Notes, together with the Base Prospectus, that is first filed with the Commission pursuant to Rule 424(b). Any reference herein to the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus shall be deemed to refer to and include the documents that are or are deemed to be incorporated by reference therein pursuant to Item 12 of Form S-3 under the Securities Act prior to 4 p.m., New York City time, on April 1, 2009 (the ""). All references in this Agreement to the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus, the Prospectus, or any amendments or supplements to any of the foregoing, shall include any copy thereof filed with the Commission pursuant to its Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis and Retrieval System ("").
Initial Sale Time
EDGAR
All references in this Agreement to financial statements and schedules and other information which is "contained," "included" or "stated" (or other references of like import) in the Registration Statement, the Prospectus or the Preliminary Prospectus shall be deemed to mean and include all such financial statements and schedules and other information which is or is deemed to be incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Prospectus or the Preliminary Prospectus, as the case may be, prior to the Initial Sale Time; and all references in this Agreement to amendments or supplements to the Registration Statement, the Prospectus or the Preliminary Prospectus shall be deemed to include the filing of any document under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder (collectively, the ""), which is or is deemed to be incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Prospectus or the Preliminary Prospectus, as the case may be, after the Initial Sale Time.
Exchange Act
The Company hereby confirms its agreements with the Underwriters as follows:
S 1. .
ECTION
Representations and Warranties of the Company
The Company hereby represents, warrants and covenants to each Underwriter as of the date hereof, as of the Initial Sale Time and as of the Closing Date (in each case, a ""), as follows:
Representation Date
a) The Company meets the requirements for use of Form S-3 under the Securities Act. The Registration Statement has become effective under the Securities Act and no stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement has been issued under the Securities Act and no proceedings for that purpose have been instituted or are pending or, to the knowledge of the Company, are contemplated or threatened by the Commission, and any request on the part of the Commission for additional information has been complied with.
Compliance with Registration Requirements.
At the respective times the Registration Statement and any post-effective amendments thereto became effective and at each Representation Date, the Registration Statement and any amendments thereto (i) complied and will comply in all material respects with the requirements of the Securities Act and the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended, and the rules and
 
regulations promulgated thereunder (the ""), and (ii) did not and will not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading. At the date of the Prospectus and at the Closing Date, neither the Prospectus nor any amendments or supplements thereto included or will include an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted or will omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the representations and warranties in this subsection shall not apply to statements in or omissions from the Registration Statement or any post-effective amendment or the Prospectus or any amendments or supplements thereto made in reliance upon and in conformity with information furnished to the Company in writing by any of the Underwriters through the Representatives expressly for use therein, it being understood and agreed that the only such information furnished by any Underwriter through the Representatives consists of the information described as such in Section 8 hereof.
Trust Indenture Act
Each Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus, at the time each was filed with the SEC, complied in all material respects with the Securities Act, and the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus delivered to the Underwriters for use in connection with the offering of the Notes will, at the time of such delivery, be identical to any electronically transmitted copies thereof filed with the Commission pursuant to EDGAR, except to the extent permitted by Regulation S-T.
b) The term "" shall mean (i) the Preliminary Prospectus dated April 1, 2009, (ii) the issuer free writing prospectuses as defined in Rule 433 of the Securities Act (each, an ""), if any, identified in Annex I hereto and (iii) any other free writing prospectus that the parties hereto shall hereafter expressly agree in writing to treat as part of the Disclosure Package. As of the Initial Sale Time, the Disclosure Package did not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. The preceding sentence does not apply to statements in or omissions from the Disclosure Package based upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through the Representatives specifically for use therein, it being understood and agreed that the only such information furnished by any Underwriter through the Representatives consists of the information described as such in Section 8 hereof.
Disclosure Package.
Disclosure Package
Issuer Free Writing Prospectus
c) . The documents incorporated or deemed to be incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus (i) at the time they were or hereafter are filed with the Commission, complied or will comply in all material respects with the requirements of the Exchange Act and (ii) when read together with the other information in the Disclosure Package, at the Initial Sale Time, and when read together with the other information in the Prospectus, at the date of the Prospectus and at the Closing Date, did not or will not include an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.
Incorporated Documents
 
d) . (i) At the time of filing the Registration Statement, (ii) at the time of the most recent amendment thereto for the purposes of complying with Section 10(a)(3) of the Securities Act (whether such amendment was by post-effective amendment, incorporated report filed pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act or form of prospectus), (iii) at the time the Company or any person acting on its behalf (within the meaning, for this clause only, of Rule 163(c) of the Securities Act) made any offer relating to the Notes in reliance on the exemption of Rule 163 of the Securities Act, and (iv) as of the Execution Time, the Company was and is a "well known seasoned issuer" as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. The Registration Statement is an "automatic shelf registration statement," as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act, that automatically became effective not more than three years prior to the Execution Time; the Company has not received from the Commission any notice pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) of the Securities Act objecting to use of the automatic shelf registration statement form and the Company has not otherwise ceased to be eligible to use the automatic shelf registration form.
Company is a Well-Known Seasoned Issuer
e) . (i) At the time of filing the Registration Statement and (ii) as of the Execution Time (with such date being used as the determination date for purposes of this clause (ii)), the Company was not and is not an Ineligible Issuer (as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act), without taking account of any determination by the Commission pursuant to Rule 405 of the Securities Act that it is not necessary that the Company be considered an Ineligible Issuer.
Company is not an Ineligible Issuer
f) . Each Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, as of its issue date and at all subsequent times through the completion of the offering of Notes under this Agreement or until any earlier date that the Company notified or notifies the Representatives as described in the next sentence, did not, does not and will not include any information that conflicted, conflicts or will conflict with the information contained in the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus. If at any time following issuance of an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus there occurred or occurs an event or development as a result of which such Issuer Free Writing Prospectus conflicted or would conflict with the information contained in the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus the Company has promptly notified or will promptly notify the Representatives and has promptly amended or supplemented or will promptly amend or supplement, at its own expense, such Issuer Free Writing Prospectus to eliminate or correct such conflict. The foregoing two sentences do not apply to statements in or omissions from any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus based upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through the Representatives specifically for use therein, it being understood and agreed that the only such information furnished by any Underwriter through the Representatives consists of the information described as such in Section 8 hereof.
Issuer Free Writing Prospectuses
g) The Company has not distributed and will not distribute, prior to the later of the Closing Date and the completion of the Underwriters' distribution of the Notes, any offering material in connection with the offering and sale of the Notes other than the Preliminary Prospectus, the Prospectus, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus reviewed and consented to by the Representatives and included in Annex I hereto,
Distribution of Offering Material By the Company.
 
the Registration Statement or any electronic road show or other written communications reviewed and consented to by the Representatives (collectively, ""). Each such Company Additional Written Communication, when taken together with the Disclosure Package, did not, and at the Closing Date will not, contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; that this representation, warranty and agreement shall not apply to statements in or omissions from each such Company Additional Written Communication made in reliance upon and in conformity with information furnished to the Company in writing by any Underwriter through the Representatives expressly for use in any Company Additional Written Communication, it being understood and agreed that the only such information furnished by any Underwriter through the Representatives consists of the information described as such in Section 8 hereof.
Company Additional Written Communication
provided
h) There are no persons with registration or other similar rights to have any equity or debt securities registered for sale under the Registration Statement or included in the offering contemplated by this Agreement, except for such rights as have been duly waived.
No Applicable Registration or Other Similar Rights.
i) This Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company.
The Underwriting Agreement.
j) . The Indenture has been duly qualified under the Trust Indenture Act and has been duly authorized and, at the Closing Date, will have been duly executed and delivered by the Company and (assuming due authorization, execution and delivery by the Trustee) will constitute a valid and binding agreement of the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with its terms, except as the enforcement thereof may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent transfer, reorganization, moratorium or other similar laws relating to or affecting the rights and remedies of creditors or by general equitable principles (regardless of whether enforcement is sought in a proceeding at law or in equity).
Authorization of the Indenture
k) The Notes to be purchased by the Underwriters from the Company are substantially in the form contemplated by the Indenture, have been duly authorized for issuance and sale pursuant to this Agreement and the Indenture and, at the Closing Date, will have been duly executed by the Company and, when authenticated in the manner provided for in the Indenture and delivered against payment of the purchase price therefor, will constitute valid and binding obligations of the Company, enforceable in accordance with their terms, except as the enforcement thereof may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent transfer, reorganization, moratorium or other similar laws relating to or affecting the rights and remedies of creditors or by general equitable principles (regardless of whether enforcement is sought in a proceeding at law or in equity), and will be entitled to the benefits of the Indenture.
Authorization of the Notes.
l) The Notes and the Indenture conform in all material respects to the descriptions thereof contained in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus.
Description of the Notes and the Indenture.
 
m) The statements in each of the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus under the captions "Description of Notes," "Description of Debt Securities" and "Material United States Federal Income Tax Considerations" in each case insofar as such statements constitute a summary of the legal matters, documents or proceedings referred to therein, fairly present and summarize, in all material respects, the matters referred to therein.
Accuracy of Statements in Prospectus.
n) . Except as otherwise disclosed in the Disclosure Package, subsequent to the respective dates as of which information is given in the Disclosure Package, (i) neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries has sustained any loss or interference with its business from fire, explosion, flood or other calamity, whether or not covered by insurance, or from any labor dispute or court or governmental action, order or decree, except for losses or interferences that would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Change (as defined below) and (ii) there has been no change, or any development involving a prospective change, that would reasonably be expected to result in a material adverse change in the financial position, stockholders' equity or results of operations, whether or not arising from transactions in the ordinary course of business, of the Company and its subsidiaries, considered as a whole (any such change is called a "").
No Material Adverse Change
Material Adverse Change
o) PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, who have expressed their opinion with respect to the Company's audited financial statements for the fiscal years ended February 2, 2007, February 1, 2008 and January 30, 2009 incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus are, to the best of the Company's knowledge, independent public accountants with respect to the Company as required by the Securities Act and the Exchange Act and are, to the best of the Company's knowledge, an independent registered public accounting firm with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board.
Independent Registered Public Accountants.
p) The financial statements together with the related notes thereto incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus present fairly in all material respects the consolidated financial position of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries as of and at the dates indicated and the results of their operations and the changes in their cash flows for the periods specified, in each case on a consolidated basis. Such financial statements comply in all material respects as to form with the accounting requirements of the Securities Act and have been prepared in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles as applied in the United States applied on a consistent basis throughout the periods involved, except as otherwise noted in the related notes thereto. No other financial statements are required to be included in the Registration Statement. The selected financial data included in the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus present fairly in all material respects the information shown therein and have been compiled on a basis consistent with that of the audited financial statements or, as applicable, unaudited financial statements included in the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus.
Preparation of the Financial Statements.
q) The Company has been duly incorporated and is validly existing as a corporation in good standing under the laws of the State
Incorporation and Good Standing of the Company.
 
of Delaware, and has corporate power and authority to own or lease, as the case may be, and operate its properties and to conduct its business as described in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus and to enter into and perform its obligations under this Agreement. The Company is duly qualified as a foreign corporation to transact business and is in good standing in each jurisdiction in which such qualification is required, whether by reason of the ownership or leasing of property or the conduct of business, except for such jurisdictions where the failure to so qualify or to be in good standing would not, individually or in the aggregate, result in a Material Adverse Change.
r) Each of the Company's significant subsidiaries (as defined in Rule 1-02(10) of Regulation S-X, the "") has been duly incorporated or formed and is validly existing as a corporation, limited liability company, limited partnership or foreign corporation, as the case may be, in good standing under the laws of the jurisdiction of its incorporation or organization, and has corporate power and authority to own or lease, as the case may be, and operate its properties and to conduct its business as described in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, except where the failure to be in good standing would not, individually or in the aggregate, result in a Material Adverse Change. Each of the Significant Subsidiaries is duly qualified as a foreign corporation to transact business and is in good standing in each jurisdiction in which such qualification is required, whether by reason of the ownership or leasing of property or the conduct of business, except for such jurisdictions where the failure to so qualify or to be in good standing would not, individually or in the aggregate, result in a Material Adverse Change. Except as otherwise disclosed in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, all of the issued and outstanding shares of capital stock or other ownership interests of each of the Significant Subsidiaries have been duly authorized and validly issued, are fully paid and nonassessable and (except for any qualifying shares owned by directors of a subsidiary and, in the case of Significant Subsidiaries incorporated under the laws of a jurisdiction other than the United States or a state thereof, shares owned by foreign citizens or other individuals to the extent required under the laws of such jurisdiction) are owned by the Company, directly or through subsidiaries, free and clear of any material security interest, mortgage, pledge, lien, encumbrance or claim. The Company does not have any subsidiary not listed on Exhibit 21 to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 30, 2009 (the "Form 10-K") which was required to be so listed when the Form 10-K was filed.
Incorporation and Good Standing of the Significant Subsidiaries.
Significant Subsidiaries
s) The Company's execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement and consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby, by the Disclosure Package and by the Prospectus (i) have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action and will not result in any violation or default (or, with the giving of notice or lapse of time or both, would be in default) ("") under the certificate of incorporation, charter or by-laws of the Company or any subsidiary, (ii) will not conflict with or constitute a breach of, or Default or a Debt Repayment Triggering Event (as defined below) under, or result in the creation or imposition of any lien, charge or encumbrance upon any property or assets of the Company or any of its subsidiaries pursuant to, or require the consent of any other party to, any indenture, mortgage, loan or credit agreement, deed of trust or other agreement, obligation, condition, covenant or
Non-Contravention of Existing Instruments; No Further Authorizations or Approvals Required.
Default
 
instrument to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries is a party or by which it or any of them is bound or to which any of the property or assets of the Company or any of its subsidiaries is subject (each, and ""), and (iii) will not result in any violation of any statute, law, rule, regulation, judgment, order or decree applicable to the Company or any of its subsidiaries of any court, regulatory body, administrative agency, governmental body, arbitrator or other authority having jurisdiction over the Company or any of its subsidiaries or any of its or their properties, except, with respect to clauses (ii) and (iii) only, such conflicts, breaches, Defaults, Debt Repayment Triggering Events, liens, charges, encumbrances, requirements or violations as would not, individually or in the aggregate, result in a Material Adverse Change. No consent, approval, authorization or other order of, or registration or filing with, any court or other governmental or regulatory authority or agency is required for the Company's execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement or consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby, by the Disclosure Package or by the Prospectus, except such as have been or will be prior to or on the Closing Date obtained or made by the Company and except for such consents, approvals, authorizations or other orders of, or registrations or filings under applicable state securities or blue sky laws, or filings made after the Closing Date pursuant to the Company's periodic reporting obligations under the Exchange Act, and from the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (the ""). As used herein, a "" means any event or condition which gives, or with the giving of notice or lapse of time or both would give, the holder of any note, debenture or other evidence of indebtedness (or any person acting on such holder's behalf) issued by the Company, the right to require the repurchase, redemption or repayment of all or a portion of such indebtedness by the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
Existing Instrument
FINRA
Debt Repayment Triggering Event
t) Except as disclosed in the Prospectus and the Disclosure Package, there are no legal or governmental actions, suits or proceedings pending or, to the best of the Company's knowledge, threatened against or affecting the Company or any of its subsidiaries or of which any property of the Company or any of its subsidiaries is subject which, if determined adversely to the Company or any of its subsidiaries, would, individually or in the aggregate, result in a Material Adverse Change.
No Material Actions or Proceedings.
u) The Company and its subsidiaries own or possess, or can acquire on reasonable terms, all material patents, patent rights, licenses, inventions, copyrights, know-how (including trade secrets and other unpatented and/or unpatentable proprietary or confidential information, systems or procedures), trademarks, service marks and trade names currently employed by them in connection with the business now operated by them, and neither the Company nor any or its subsidiaries has received any notice of infringement of or conflict with asserted rights of others with respect to any of the foregoing which, individually or in the aggregate, if the subject of an unfavorable decision, ruling or finding, would reasonably be expected to, individually or in the aggregate, result in a Material Adverse Change.
Intellectual Property Rights.
v) The Company is not, and after receipt of payment for the Notes and the application of the proceeds thereof as contemplated under the caption "Use of Proceeds" in the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus will not be, required to register as an "investment company" within the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended.
Company Not an Investment Company.
 
w) To the knowledge of the Company, none of the Company, any of its subsidiaries or any director, officer, agent, employee or affiliate of the Company or any of its subsidiaries is aware of or has taken any action, directly or indirectly, that would result in a violation by the Company or any of its subsidiaries of the FCPA, and, to the knowledge of the Company, the Company and its subsidiaries have conducted their businesses in compliance with the FCPA and have instituted and maintain policies and procedures designed to ensure, and which are reasonably expected to continue to ensure, continued compliance therewith.
No Unlawful Contributions or Other Payments.
"" means Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, as amended, and the rules and regulations thereunder.
FCPA
x) The operations of the Company and its subsidiaries are and have been conducted at all times in compliance in all material respects with applicable financial recordkeeping and reporting requirements of the Currency and Foreign Transactions Reporting Act of 1970, as amended, the money laundering statutes of all applicable jurisdictions, the rules and regulations thereunder and any related or similar rules, regulations or guidelines issued, administered or enforced by any governmental agency (collectively, the "") and no action, suit or proceeding by or before any court or governmental agency, authority or body or any arbitrator involving the Company or any of its subsidiaries with respect to the Money Laundering Laws is pending or, to the best knowledge of the Company, threatened.
No Conflict with Money Laundering Laws.
Money Laundering Laws
y) Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries nor, to the knowledge of the Company, any director, officer, agent, employee or affiliate of the Company or any of its subsidiaries is currently subject to any U.S. sanctions administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the U.S. Treasury Department (""); and the Company will not directly or indirectly use the proceeds of the offering, or lend, contribute or otherwise make available such proceeds, to any subsidiary, joint venture partner or other person or entity, for the purpose of financing the activities of any person currently subject to any U.S. sanctions administered by OFAC.
No Conflict with OFAC Laws.
OFAC
z) The Company maintains a system of internal control over financial reporting (as such term is defined in Rule 13a-15(f) of the Exchange Act) that complies with the requirements of the Exchange Act and has been designed by the Company's principal executive officer and principal financial officer, or under their supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. Management of the Company assessed internal control over financial reporting as of January 30, 2009, and concluded that the Company's internal control over financial reporting was effective as of such date. The Company is not aware of any material weaknesses in its internal control over financial reporting.
Internal Controls and Procedures.
 
aa) Since the date of the latest audited financial statements filed with the Commission, there has been no change in the Company's internal control over financial reporting that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company's internal control over financial reporting.
No Material Weakness in Internal Controls.
bb) The Company maintains disclosure controls and procedures (as such term is defined in Rule 13a-15(e) of the Exchange Act) that comply with the requirements of the Exchange Act; such disclosure controls and procedures have been designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by the Company and its subsidiaries in the reports that the Company files or submits under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to the Company's management; and such disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of January 30, 2009.
Any certificate signed by an officer of the Company and delivered to the Representatives or to counsel for the Underwriters shall be deemed to be a representation and warranty by the Company to each Underwriter as to the matters set forth therein.
S 2.
ECTION
Purchase, Sale and Delivery of the Notes.
a) The Company agrees to issue and sell to the several Underwriters, severally and not jointly, all of the Notes upon the terms herein set forth. On the basis of the representations, warranties and agreements herein contained, and upon the terms but subject to the conditions herein set forth, the Underwriters agree, severally and not jointly, to purchase from the Company the aggregate principal amount of the Notes set forth opposite their names on Schedule A at a purchase price of 99.566% of the principal amount of the Notes, plus accrued interest, if any, from April 6, 2009 to the Closing Date, payable on the Closing Date.
The Notes.
b) Delivery of certificates for the Notes in global form to be purchased by the Underwriters and payment therefor shall be made at the offices of Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP, 825 Eighth Avenue, New York, New York, 10019 (or such other place as may be agreed to by the Company and the Representatives) at 9:00 a.m., New York City time, on April 6, 2009, or such other time and date as the Underwriters and the Company shall mutually agree (the time and date of such closing are called the "").
The Closing Date.
Closing Date
c) The Representatives hereby advise the Company that the Underwriters intend to offer for sale to the public, as described in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, their respective portions of the Notes as soon after the Execution Time as the Representatives, in their sole judgment, have determined is advisable and practicable.
Public Offering of the Notes.
d) Payment for the Notes shall be made at the Closing Date by wire transfer of immediately available funds to the order of the Company.
Payment for the Notes.
It is understood that the Representatives have been authorized, for their own accounts and for the accounts of the several Underwriters, to accept delivery of and receipt for, and make payment of the purchase price for, the Notes that the Underwriters have agreed to purchase. The
 
Representatives may (but shall not be obligated to) make payment for any Notes to be purchased by any Underwriter whose funds shall not have been received by the Representatives by the Closing Date for the account of such Underwriter, but any such payment shall not relieve such Underwriter from any of its obligations under this Agreement.
e) The Company shall deliver, or cause to be delivered, to the Representatives for the accounts of the several Underwriters certificates for the Notes at the Closing Date, against the irrevocable release of a wire transfer of immediately available funds for the amount of the purchase price therefor. The certificates for the Notes shall be in such denominations and registered in such names and denominations as the Representatives shall have requested at least two full business days prior to the Closing Date and shall be made available for inspection on the business day preceding the Closing Date at a location in New York City, as the Representatives may designate. Time shall be of the essence, and delivery at the time and place specified in this Agreement is a further condition to the obligations of the Underwriters.
Delivery of the Notes.
S 3.
ECTION
Covenants of the Company.
The Company covenants and agrees with each Underwriter as follows:
a) The Company, subject to Section 3(b), will comply with the requirements of Rule 430B of the Securities Act, and will promptly notify the Representatives, and confirm the notice in writing, of (i) the effectiveness during the Prospectus Delivery Period (as defined below) of any post-effective amendment to the Registration Statement or the filing of any supplement or amendment to the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus, (ii) the receipt of any comments from the Commission during the Prospectus Delivery Period, (iii) any request by the Commission for any amendment to the Registration Statement or any amendment or supplement to the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus or for additional information, and (iv) the issuance by the Commission of any stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement or of any order preventing or suspending the use of the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus, or of the suspension of the qualification of the Notes for offering or sale in any jurisdiction, or of the initiation or threatening of any proceedings for any of such purposes. The Company will promptly effect the filings necessary pursuant to Rule 424 and will take such steps as it deems necessary to ascertain promptly whether the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus transmitted for filing under Rule 424 was received for filing by the Commission and, in the event that it was not, it will promptly file such document. The Company will use its reasonable best efforts to prevent the issuance of any stop order and, if any stop order is issued, to obtain the lifting thereof at the earliest possible moment.
Compliance with Securities Regulations and Commission Requests.
b) During such period beginning on the date of this Agreement and ending on the later of the Closing Date or such date as, in the opinion of counsel for the Underwriters, the Prospectus is no longer required by law to be delivered in connection with sales of the Notes by an Underwriter or dealer, including in circumstances where such requirement may be satisfied pursuant to Rule 172 of the Securities Act (the ""), the Company will give the Representatives notice of its intention to file or
Filing of Amendments.
Prospectus Delivery Period
 
prepare any amendment to the Registration Statement, or any amendment, supplement or revision to the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus, whether pursuant to the Securities Act, the Exchange Act or otherwise, will furnish the Representatives with copies of any such documents a reasonable amount of time prior to such proposed filing or use, as the case may be, and will not file or use any such document to which the Representatives or counsel for the Underwriters shall reasonably object.
c) The Company has furnished or will deliver to the Representatives and counsel for the Underwriters, without charge, electronic copies or photocopies of the signed Registration Statement as originally filed and of each amendment thereto (including exhibits filed therewith or incorporated by reference therein and documents incorporated or deemed to be incorporated by reference therein) and electronic copies or photocopies of all consents and certificates of experts, and will also deliver to the Representatives, without charge, a conformed copy of the Registration Statement as originally filed and of each amendment thereto (without exhibits) for each of the Underwriters. The Registration Statement and each amendment thereto furnished to the Underwriters will be identical to any electronically transmitted copies thereof filed with the Commission pursuant to EDGAR, except to the extent permitted by Regulation S-T.
Delivery of Registration Statements.
d) The Company will deliver to each Underwriter, without charge, as many copies of the Preliminary Prospectus as such Underwriter may reasonably request, and the Company hereby consents to the use of such copies for purposes permitted by the Securities Act. The Company will furnish to each Underwriter, without charge, during the Prospectus Delivery Period, such number of copies of the Prospectus as such Underwriter may reasonably request. The Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus and any amendments or supplements thereto furnished to the Underwriters will be identical to any electronically transmitted copies thereof filed with the Commission pursuant to EDGAR, except to the extent permitted by Regulation S-T.
Delivery of Prospectuses.
e) . The Company will comply with the Securities Act and the Exchange Act so as to permit the completion of the distribution of the Notes as contemplated in this Agreement and in the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus. If at any time during the Prospectus Delivery Period, any event shall occur or condition shall exist as a result of which it is necessary, in the opinion of the Underwriters or the Company, to amend the Registration Statement in order that the Registration Statement will not contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading or to amend or supplement the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus in order that the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus, as the case may be, will not include an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances existing at the Initial Sale Time or at the time it is delivered or conveyed to a purchaser, not misleading, or if it shall be necessary, in the opinion of either the Company or the Underwriters, at any such time to amend the Registration Statement or amend or supplement the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus in order to comply with the requirements of any law, the Company will (1) notify the Representatives of any such event, development or condition
Continued Compliance with Securities Laws
 
and (2) promptly prepare and file with the Commission, subject to Section 3(b) hereof, such amendment or supplement as may be necessary to correct such statement or omission or to make the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus comply with such law, and the Company will furnish to the Underwriters, without charge, such number of copies of such amendment or supplement as the Underwriters may reasonably request.
f) The Company shall cooperate with the Representatives and counsel for the Underwriters to qualify or register the Notes for sale under (or obtain exemptions from the application of) the state securities or blue sky laws of those U.S. jurisdictions designated by the Representatives, shall comply with such laws and shall continue such qualifications, registrations and exemptions in effect so long as required for the distribution of the Notes. The Company shall not be required to qualify to transact business or to take any action that would subject it to general service of process in any such jurisdiction where it is not presently qualified or where it would be subject to taxation as a foreign business. The Company will advise the Representatives promptly of the suspension of the qualification or registration of (or any such exemption relating to) the Notes for offering, sale or trading in any jurisdiction or any initiation or threat of any proceeding for any such purpose, and in the event of the issuance of any order suspending such qualification, registration or exemption, the Company shall use its reasonable best efforts to obtain the withdrawal thereof at the earliest possible moment.
Blue Sky Compliance.
g) The Company shall apply the net proceeds from the sale of the Notes sold by it in the manner described under the caption "Use of Proceeds" in the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus.
Use of Proceeds.
h) The Company will cooperate with the Underwriters and use its reasonable best efforts to permit the Notes to be eligible for clearance and settlement through the facilities of the Depositary.
Depositary.
i) During the Prospectus Delivery Period, the Company shall file, on a timely basis, with the Commission and the NASDAQ Global Select Market all reports and documents required to be filed under the Exchange Act.
Periodic Reporting Obligations.
j) During the period commencing on the date hereof and ending on the Closing Date, the Company will not, without the prior written consent of the Representatives (which consent may be withheld at the sole discretion of the Representatives), directly or indirectly, sell, offer, contract or grant any option to sell, pledge, transfer or establish an open "put equivalent position" within the meaning of Rule 16a-1(h) under the Exchange Act, or otherwise dispose of or transfer, or announce the offering of, or file any registration statement under the Securities Act in respect of, any debt securities of the Company similar to the Notes or securities exchangeable for or convertible into debt securities similar to the Notes (other than as contemplated by this Agreement with respect to the Notes).
Agreement Not to Offer or Sell Additional Securities.
k) . The Company will prepare a final term sheet containing only a description of the Notes, in a form approved by the Underwriters and attached as Exhibit B-1 and
Final Term Sheet
 
will file such term sheet pursuant to Rule 433(d) under the Securities Act within the time required by such rule (such term sheet, the ""). Any such Final Term Sheet is an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus for purposes of this Agreement.
Final Term Sheet
l) . The Company represents that it has not made, and agrees that, unless it obtains the prior written consent of the Representatives, it will not make, any offer relating to the Notes that would constitute an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus or that would otherwise constitute a "free writing prospectus" (as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act) required to be filed by the Company with the Commission or retained by the Company under Rule 433 of the Securities Act; provided that the prior written consent of the Representatives shall be deemed to have been given in respect of any Issuer Free Writing Prospectuses included in Annex I to this Agreement. Any such free writing prospectus consented to or deemed to be consented to by the Representatives is hereinafter referred to as a "." The Company agrees that (i) it has treated and will treat, as the case may be, each Permitted Free Writing Prospectus as an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, and (ii) has complied and will comply, as the case may be, with the requirements of Rules 164 and 433 of the Securities Act applicable to any Permitted Free Writing Prospectus, including in respect of timely filing with the Commission, legending and record keeping. The Company consents to the use by any Underwriter of a free writing prospectus that (a) is not an "issuer free writing prospectus" as defined in Rule 433, and (b) contains only (i) information describing the preliminary terms of the Notes or their offering, (ii) information permitted by Rule 134 under the Securities Act or (iii) information that describes the final terms of the Notes or their offering and that is included in the Final Term Sheet of the Company contemplated in Section 3(k).
Permitted Free Writing Prospectuses
Permitted Free Writing Prospectus
m) If immediately prior to the third anniversary (the "") of the initial effective date of the Registration Statement, any of the Notes remain unsold by the Underwriters, the Company will prior to the Renewal Deadline file, if it has not already done so and is eligible to do so, a new automatic shelf registration statement relating to the Notes, in a form satisfactory to the Representatives. If the Company is no longer eligible to file an automatic shelf registration statement, the Company will prior to the Renewal Deadline, if it has not already done so, file a new shelf registration statement relating to the Notes, in a form satisfactory to the Representatives, and will use its reasonable best efforts to cause such registration statement to be declared effective within 60 days after the Renewal Deadline. The Company will take all other action necessary or appropriate to permit the public offering and sale of the Notes to continue as contemplated in the expired registration statement relating to the Notes. References herein to the Registration Statement shall include such new automatic shelf registration statement or such new shelf registration statement, as the case may be.
Registration Statement Renewal Deadline.
Renewal Deadline
n) . If at any time during the Prospectus Delivery Period, the Company receives from the Commission a notice pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) or otherwise ceases to be eligible to use the automatic shelf registration statement form, the Company will (i) promptly notify the Representatives, (ii) promptly file a new registration statement or post-effective amendment on the proper form
Notice of Inability to Use Automatic Shelf Registration Statement Form
 
relating to the Notes, in a form satisfactory to the Representatives, (iii) use its reasonable best efforts to cause such registration statement of post-effective amendment to be declared effective and (iv) promptly notify the Representatives of such effectiveness. The Company will take all other action necessary or appropriate to permit the public offering and sale of the Notes to continue as contemplated in the registration statement that was the subject of the Rule 401(g)(2) notice or for which the Company has otherwise become ineligible. References herein to the Registration Statement shall include such new registration statement or post-effective amendment, as the case may be.
o) . The Company agrees to pay the required Commission filing fees relating to the Notes within the time required by and in accordance with Rule 456(b)(1) and 457(r) of the Securities Act.
Filing Fees
The Representatives, on behalf of the several Underwriters, may, in their sole discretion, waive in writing the performance by the Company of any one or more of the foregoing covenants or extend the time for their performance.
S 4. . The Company agrees to pay all costs, fees and expenses incurred in connection with the performance of its obligations hereunder and in connection with the transactions contemplated hereby, including without limitation (i) all expenses incident to the issuance and delivery of the Notes (including all printing and engraving costs), (ii) all necessary issue, transfer and other stamp taxes in connection with the issuance and sale of the Notes, (iii) all fees and expenses of the Company's counsel, independent public or certified public accountants and other advisors to the Company, (iv) all costs and expenses incurred in connection with the preparation, printing, filing, shipping and distribution of the Registration Statement (including financial statements, exhibits, schedules, consents and certificates of experts), each Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, each Company Additional Written Communication, the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus, and all amendments and supplements thereto, and this Agreement, the Indenture, the DTC Agreement and the Notes, (v) all filing fees, reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses incurred by the Company or the Underwriters in connection with qualifying or registering (or obtaining exemptions from the qualification or registration of) all or any part of the Notes for offer and sale under the state securities or blue sky laws, and, if requested by the Representatives, preparing a "Blue Sky Survey" or memorandum, and any supplements thereto, advising the Underwriters of such qualifications, registrations and exemptions, (vi) the filing fees incident to, and the reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel to the Underwriters in connection with, the review, if any, by the FINRA of the terms of the sale of the Notes, (vii) the fees and expenses of the Trustee, including the reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel for the Trustee in connection with the Indenture and the Notes, (viii) any fees payable in connection with the rating of the Notes with the ratings agencies, (ix) all fees and expenses (including reasonable fees and expenses of counsel) of the Company in connection with approval of the Notes by the Depositary for "book-entry" transfer, (x) all other fees, costs and expenses referred to in Item 14 of Part II of the Registration Statement, and (xi) all other fees, costs and expenses incurred in connection with the performance of its obligations hereunder for which provision is not otherwise made in this Section. Except as provided in this Section 4 and Sections 6, 8 and 9 hereof, the Underwriters shall pay their own expenses, including the fees and disbursements of their counsel.
ECTION
Payment of Expenses
 
S 5. . The obligations of the several Underwriters to purchase and pay for the Notes as provided herein on the Closing Date shall be subject to the accuracy of the representations and warranties on the part of the Company set forth in Section 1 hereof as of the date hereof, as of the Initial Sale Time, and as of the Closing Date as though then made and to the timely performance by the Company of its covenants and other obligations hereunder, and to each of the following additional conditions:
ECTION
Conditions of the Obligations of the Underwriters
a) . No stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement shall have been issued under the Securities Act, and no proceedings for that purpose shall have been instituted or be pending or threatened by the Commission, any request on the part of the Commission for additional information shall have been complied with to the reasonable satisfaction of the Underwriters, and the Company shall not have received from the Commission any notice pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) of the Securities Act objecting to use of the automatic shelf registration statement form. The Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus shall have been filed with the Commission in accordance with Rule 424(b).
No Stop Orders
b) On the date hereof, the Representatives shall have received from PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, independent registered public accountants for the Company, a letter dated the date hereof addressed to the Company and the Underwriters, of a type reasonably satisfactory to the Representatives with respect to the audited financial statements and certain financial information contained and incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus.
Accountants' Comfort Letter.
c) . On the Closing Date, the Representatives shall have received from PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, independent registered public accountants for the Company, a letter dated such date addressed to the Company and the Underwriters, of a type reasonably satisfactory to the Representatives, to the effect that they reaffirm the statements made in the letter furnished by them pursuant to subsection (b) of this Section 5, except that the specified date referred to therein for the carrying out of procedures shall be no more than three business days prior to the Closing Date.
Bring-down Comfort Letter
d) For the period from and after the date of this Agreement and prior to the Closing Date:
No Material Adverse Change or Ratings Agency Change.
(i) there shall not have been a Material Adverse Change, the effect of which is, in the sole judgment of the Representatives, so material and adverse as to make it impractical or inadvisable to proceed with the offering or delivery of the Notes as contemplated by the Prospectus;
(ii) there shall not have been any change or decrease specified in the letter or letters referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section 5 which is, in the sole judgment of the Representatives, so material and adverse as to make it impractical or inadvisable to proceed with the offering or delivery of the Notes as contemplated by the Prospectus; and
 
(iii) there shall not have occurred any downgrading, nor shall any notice have been given of any intended or potential downgrading or of any review for a possible change that does not indicate the direction of the possible change, in the rating accorded any securities of the Company or any of its subsidiaries by any "nationally recognized statistical rating organization" as such term is defined for purposes of Rule 436(g)(2) under the Securities Act.
e) On the Closing Date, the Representatives shall have received the favorable opinion of Vinson & Elkins L.L.P., counsel for the Company, dated as of such Closing Date, the form of which is attached as Exhibit A-1.
Opinion of Counsel for the Company.
f) . On the Closing Date, the Representatives shall have received the favorable opinion of Janet B. Wright, Director - Legal of the Company, dated as of such Closing Date, the form of which is attached as Exhibit A-2.
Opinion of General Counsel
g) On the Closing Date, the Representatives shall have received the favorable opinion of Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP, counsel for the Underwriters, dated as of such Closing Date, with respect to such matters as may be reasonably requested by the Underwriters.
Opinion of Counsel for the Underwriters.
h) On the Closing Date, the Representative shall have received a written certificate executed by the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, or a Senior Vice President, and the Chief Financial Officer, the Chief Accounting Officer, or the Treasurer of the Company, dated as of such Closing Date, to the effect that:
Officers' Certificate.
(i) the Company has received no stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement, and no proceedings for such purpose have been instituted or threatened by the Commission;
(ii) the Company has not received from the Commission any notice pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) of the Securities Act objecting to use of the automatic shelf registration statement form;
(iii) the representations, warranties and covenants of the Company set forth in Section 1 of this Agreement are true and correct with the same force and effect as though expressly made on and as of such Closing Date; and
(iv) the Company has complied with all the agreements hereunder and satisfied all the conditions on its part to be performed or satisfied hereunder at or prior to such Closing Date.
i) On or before the Closing Date, the Representatives and counsel for the Underwriters shall have received such information, documents and opinions as
Additional Documents.
 
they may reasonably require for the purposes of enabling them to pass upon the issuance and sale of the Notes as contemplated herein, or in order to evidence the accuracy of any of the representations and warranties, or the satisfaction of any of the conditions or agreements, herein contained.
If any condition specified in this Section 5 is not satisfied when and as required to be satisfied, this Agreement may be terminated by the Representatives by notice to the Company at any time on or prior to the Closing Date, which termination shall be without liability on the part of any party to any other party, except that Sections 4, 6, 8, 9 and 17 shall at all times be effective and shall survive such termination.
S 6. . If this Agreement is terminated by the Representatives pursuant to Section 5 or 11, or if the sale to the Underwriters of the Notes on the Closing Date is not consummated because of any refusal, inability or failure on the part of the Company to perform any agreement herein or to comply with any provision hereof, the Company agrees to reimburse the Representatives and the other Underwriters (or such Underwriters as have terminated this Agreement with respect to themselves), severally, upon demand for all out-of-pocket expenses that shall have been reasonably incurred by the Representatives and the Underwriters in connection with the proposed purchase and the offering and sale of the Notes, including but not limited to reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel, printing expenses, travel expenses, postage, facsimile and telephone charges.
ECTION
Reimbursement of Underwriters' Expenses
S 7. . This Agreement shall not become effective until the execution of this Agreement by the parties hereto.
ECTION
Effectiveness of this Agreement
S 8.
ECTION
Indemnification.
(a) The Company agrees to indemnify and hold harmless each Underwriter, its directors, officers, employees and agents, and each person, if any, who controls any Underwriter within the meaning of the Securities Act and the Exchange Act against any loss, claim, damage, liability or expense, as incurred, to which such Underwriter or such director, officer, employee, agent or controlling person may become subject, under the Securities Act, the Exchange Act or other Federal or state statutory law or regulation, or at common law or otherwise (including in settlement of any litigation, if such settlement is effected with the written consent of the Company), insofar as such loss, claim, damage, liability or expense (or actions in respect thereof as contemplated below) arises out of or is based (i) upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in the Registration Statement, or any amendment thereto, or the omission or alleged omission therefrom of a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading; or (ii) upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, any Company Additional Written Communication, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto) or the omission or alleged omission therefrom of a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; and to reimburse each Underwriter and each such director, officer, employee, agent
Indemnification of the Underwriters.
 
and controlling person for any and all expenses (including the reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel chosen by the Representatives) as such expenses are reasonably incurred by such Underwriter or such director, officer, employee, agent or controlling person in connection with investigating, defending, settling, compromising or paying any such loss, claim, damage, liability, expense or action; , that the foregoing indemnity agreement shall not apply to any loss, claim, damage, liability or expense to the extent, but only to the extent, arising out of or based upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission made in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through the Representatives expressly for use in the Registration Statement, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, any Company Additional Written Communication, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto). The indemnity agreement set forth in this Section 8(a) shall be in addition to any liabilities that the Company may otherwise have.
provided, however
(b) Each Underwriter agrees, severally and not jointly, to indemnify and hold harmless the Company, each of its directors, each of its officers who signed the Registration Statement and each person, if any, who controls the Company within the meaning of the Securities Act or the Exchange Act, against any loss, claim, damage, liability or expense, as incurred, to which the Company or any such director, officer or controlling person may become subject, under the Securities Act, the Exchange Act, or other Federal or state statutory law or regulation, or at common law or otherwise (including in settlement of any litigation, if such settlement is effected with the written consent of such Underwriter), insofar as such loss, claim, damage, liability or expense (or actions in respect thereof as contemplated below) arises out of or is based (i) upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in the Registration Statement, or any amendment thereto, or the omission or alleged omission therefrom of a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading; or (ii) upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, any Company Additional Written Communication, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto) or the omission or alleged omission therefrom of a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, in each case to the extent, but only to the extent, that such untrue statement or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission was made in the Registration Statement, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, any Company Additional Written Communication, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto), in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through the Representatives expressly for use therein; and to reimburse the Company, or any such director, officer or controlling person for any and all expenses (including the reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel chosen by the Company), as such expenses are reasonably incurred by the Company, or any such director, officer or controlling person in connection with investigating, defending, settling, compromising or paying any such loss, claim, damage, liability, expense or action. The Company hereby acknowledges that the only information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through the Representatives expressly for use in the Registration Statement, any Issuer Free Writing
Indemnification of the Company, its Directors and Officers.
 
Prospectus, any Company Additional Written Communication, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto) are the statements set forth in the third and seventh paragraphs in the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus. The indemnity agreement set forth in this Section 8(b) shall be in addition to any liabilities that each Underwriter may otherwise have.
(c) Promptly after receipt by an indemnified party under this Section 8 of notice of the commencement of any action, such indemnified party will, if a claim in respect thereof is to be made against an indemnifying party under this Section 8, notify the indemnifying party in writing of the commencement thereof, but the omission so to notify the indemnifying party will not relieve it from any liability which it may have to any indemnified party for contribution or otherwise than under the indemnity agreement contained in this Section 8 or to the extent it is not prejudiced as a proximate result of such failure. In case any such action is brought against any indemnified party and such indemnified party seeks or intends to seek indemnity from an indemnifying party, the indemnifying party will be entitled to participate in, and, to the extent that it shall elect, jointly with all other indemnifying parties similarly notified, by written notice delivered to the indemnified party, to assume the defense thereof with counsel reasonably satisfactory to such indemnified party; provided, however, such indemnified party shall have the right to employ its own counsel in any such action and to participate in the defense thereof, but the fees and expenses of such counsel shall be at the expense of such indemnified party, unless: (i) the employment of such counsel has been specifically authorized in writing by the indemnifying party; (ii) the indemnifying party has failed promptly to assume the defense and employ counsel reasonably satisfactory to the indemnified party; or (iii) the named parties to any such action (including any impleaded parties) include both such indemnified party and the indemnifying party or any affiliate of the indemnifying party, and such indemnified party shall have reasonably concluded that either (x) there may be one or more legal defenses available to it which are different from or additional to those available to the indemnifying party or such affiliate of the indemnifying party or (y) a conflict may exist between such indemnified party and the indemnifying party or such affiliate of the indemnifying party (it being understood, however, that the indemnifying party shall not, in connection with any one such action or separate but substantially similar or related actions in the same jurisdiction arising out of the same general allegations or circumstances, be liable for the fees and expenses of more than one separate firm of attorneys (in addition to a single firm of local counsel) for all such indemnified parties, which firm shall be designated in writing by the Representatives in the case of paragraph (a) of this Section 8, and by the Company in the case of paragraph (b) of this Section 8 and that all such reasonable fees and expenses shall be reimbursed as they are incurred). Upon receipt of notice from the indemnifying party to such indemnified party of such indemnifying party's election so to assume the defense of such action and approval by the indemnified party of counsel, the indemnifying party will not be liable to such indemnified party under this Section 8 for any legal or other expenses subsequently incurred by such indemnified party in connection with the defense thereof unless the indemnified party shall have employed separate counsel in accordance with the proviso to the next preceding sentence, in which case the reasonable fees and expenses of counsel shall be at the expense of the indemnifying party.
Notifications and Other Indemnification Procedures.
 
(d) The indemnifying party under this Section 8 shall not be liable for any settlement of any proceeding effected without its written consent, but if settled with such consent or if there be a final judgment for the plaintiff, the indemnifying party agrees to indemnify the indemnified party against any loss, claim, damage, liability or expense by reason of such settlement or judgment. No indemnifying party shall, without the prior written consent of the indemnified party, effect any settlement, compromise or consent to the entry of judgment in any pending or threatened action, suit or proceeding in respect of which any indemnified party is or could have been a party and indemnity was or could have been sought hereunder by such indemnified party, unless such settlement, compromise or consent (i) includes an unconditional release of such indemnified party from all liability on claims that are the subject matter of such action, suit or proceeding and (ii) does not include a statement as to or an admission of fault, culpability or a failure to act, by or on behalf of any indemnified party.
Settlements.
S 9. . If the indemnification provided for in Section 8 is for any reason held to be unavailable to or otherwise insufficient to hold harmless an indemnified party in respect of any losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses referred to therein, then each indemnifying party shall contribute to the aggregate amount paid or payable by such indemnified party, as incurred, as a result of any losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses referred to therein (i) in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative benefits received by the Company, on the one hand, and the Underwriters, on the other hand, from the offering of the Notes pursuant to this Agreement or (ii) if the allocation provided by clause (i) above is not permitted by applicable law, in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect not only the relative benefits referred to in clause (i) above but also the relative fault of the Company, on the one hand, and the Underwriters, on the other hand, in connection with the statements or omissions which resulted in such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses, as well as any other relevant equitable considerations. The relative benefits received by the Company, on the one hand, and the Underwriters, on the other hand, in connection with the offering of the Notes pursuant to this Agreement shall be deemed to be in the same respective proportions as the total net proceeds from the offering of the Notes pursuant to this Agreement (before deducting expenses) received by the Company, and the total underwriting discount received by the Underwriters, in each case as set forth on the front cover page of the Prospectus bear to the aggregate initial public offering price of the Notes as set forth on such cover. The relative fault of the Company, on the one hand, and the Underwriters, on the other hand, shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether any such untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information supplied by the Company, on the one hand, or the Underwriters, on the other hand, and the parties' relative intent, knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such statement or omission.
ECTION
Contribution
The amount paid or payable by a party as a result of the losses, claims, damages, liabilities and expenses referred to above shall be deemed to include, subject to the limitations set forth in Section 8(c), any reasonable legal or other fees or expenses reasonably incurred by such party in connection with investigating or defending any action or claim.
 
The Company and the Underwriters agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution pursuant to this Section 9 were determined by pro rata allocation (even if the Underwriters were treated as one entity for such purpose) or by any other method of allocation which does not take account of the equitable considerations referred to in this Section 9.
Notwithstanding the provisions of this Section 9, no Underwriter shall be required to contribute any amount in excess of the underwriting commissions received by such Underwriter in connection with the Notes underwritten by it and distributed to the public. No person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the Securities Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation. The Underwriters' obligations to contribute pursuant to this Section 9 are several, and not joint, in proportion to their respective underwriting commitments as set forth opposite their names in Schedule A. For purposes of this Section 9, each director, officer, employee and agent of an Underwriter and each person, if any, who controls an Underwriter within the meaning of the Securities Act and the Exchange Act shall have the same rights to contribution as such Underwriter, and each director of the Company, each officer of the Company who signed the Registration Statement, and each person, if any, who controls the Company with the meaning of the Securities Act and the Exchange Act shall have the same rights to contribution as the Company.
S 10. . If, on the Closing Date, any one or more of the several Underwriters shall fail or refuse to purchase Notes that it or they have agreed to purchase hereunder on such date, and the aggregate principal amount of Notes, which such defaulting Underwriter or Underwriters agreed but failed or refused to purchase does not exceed 10% of the aggregate principal amount of the Notes to be purchased on such date, the other Underwriters shall be obligated, severally, in the proportion to the aggregate principal amounts of such Notes set forth opposite their respective names on Schedule A bears to the aggregate principal amount of such Notes set forth opposite the names of all such non-defaulting Underwriters, or in such other proportions as may be specified by the Representatives with the consent of the non-defaulting Underwriters, to purchase such Notes which such defaulting Underwriter or Underwriters agreed but failed or refused to purchase on such date. If, on the Closing Date, any one or more of the Underwriters shall fail or refuse to purchase such Notes and the aggregate principal amount of such Notes with respect to which such default occurs exceeds 10% of the aggregate principal amount of Notes to be purchased on such date, and arrangements satisfactory to the Representatives and the Company for the purchase of such Notes are not made within 48 hours after such default, this Agreement shall terminate without liability of any party to any other party except that the provisions of Sections 4, 6, 8, 9 and 17 shall at all times be effective and shall survive such termination. In any such case, either the Representatives or the Company shall have the right to postpone the Closing Date, but in no event for longer than seven days in order that the required changes, if any, to the Registration Statement, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, any Company Additional Written Communication, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus or any other documents or arrangements may be effected.
ECTION
Default of One or More of the Several Underwriters
 
As used in this Agreement, the term "Underwriter" shall be deemed to include any person substituted for a defaulting Underwriter under this Section 10. Any action taken under this Section 10 shall not relieve any defaulting Underwriter from liability in respect of any default of such Underwriter under this Agreement.
S 11. . Prior to the Closing Date, this Agreement may be terminated by the Representatives by notice given to the Company if at any time (i) trading or quotation in any of the Company's securities shall have been suspended or limited by the Commission or the NASDAQ Global Select Market, or trading in securities generally on either the Nasdaq Stock Market, the New York Stock Exchange or the NASDAQ Global Select Market shall have been suspended or limited, or minimum or maximum prices shall have been generally established on any of such stock exchanges by the Commission or the FINRA; (ii) a general banking moratorium shall have been declared by any of Federal or New York authorities; (iii) there shall have occurred any outbreak or escalation of national or international hostilities or any crisis or calamity involving the United States, or any change in the United States or international financial markets, or any substantial change or development involving a prospective substantial change in United States' or international political, financial or economic conditions, as in the judgment of the Representatives is material and adverse and makes it impracticable or inadvisable to market the Notes in the manner and on the terms described in the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus or to enforce contracts for the sale of securities; or (iv) there shall have occurred a material disruption in commercial banking or securities settlement or clearance services. Any termination pursuant to this Section 11 shall be without liability of any party to any other party except as provided in Sections 4 and 6 hereof, and provided further that Sections 4, 6, 8, 9 and 17 shall survive such termination and remain in full force and effect.
ECTION
Termination of this Agreement
S 12. . The Company acknowledges and agrees that: (i) the purchase and sale of the Notes pursuant to this Agreement, including the determination of the public offering price of the Notes and any related discounts and commissions, is an arm's-length commercial transaction between the Company, on the one hand, and the several Underwriters, on the other hand, and the Company is capable of evaluating and understanding and understands and accepts the terms, risks and conditions of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement; (ii) in connection with each transaction contemplated hereby and the process leading to such transaction each Underwriter is and has been acting solely as a principal and is not the financial advisor, agent or fiduciary of the Company or its affiliates, stockholders, creditors or employees or any other party; (iii) no Underwriter has assumed or will assume an advisory, agency or fiduciary responsibility in favor of the Company with respect to any of the transactions contemplated hereby or the process leading thereto (irrespective of whether such Underwriter has advised or is currently advising the Company on other matters) and no Underwriter has any obligation to the Company with respect to the offering contemplated hereby except the obligations expressly set forth in this Agreement; (iv) the several Underwriters and their respective affiliates may be engaged in a broad range of transactions that involve interests that differ from those of the Company and that the several Underwriters have no obligation to disclose any of such interests by virtue of any advisory, agency or fiduciary relationship; and (v) the Underwriters have not provided any legal, accounting, regulatory or tax advice with respect to the offering contemplated hereby and the Company has consulted its own legal, accounting, regulatory and tax advisors to the extent it deemed appropriate.
ECTION
No Fiduciary Duty
 
This Agreement supersedes all prior agreements and understandings (whether written or oral) between the Company and the several Underwriters with respect to the subject matter hereof. The Company hereby waives and releases, to the fullest extent permitted by law, any claims that the Company may have against the several Underwriters with respect to any breach or alleged breach of agency or fiduciary duty.
S 13. . The respective indemnities, agreements, representations, warranties and other statements of the Company, of its officers and of the several Underwriters set forth in or made pursuant to this Agreement (i) will remain operative and in full force and effect, regardless of any (A) investigation, or statement as to the results thereof, made by or on behalf of any Underwriter, the officers or employees of any Underwriter, or any person controlling the Underwriter, the Company, the officers or employees of the Company, or any person controlling the Company, as the case may be or (B) acceptance of the Notes and payment for them hereunder and (ii) will survive delivery of and payment for the Notes sold hereunder and any termination of this Agreement.
ECTION
Representations and Indemnities to Survive Delivery
S 14. . All communications hereunder shall be in writing and shall be mailed, hand delivered or telecopied and confirmed to the parties hereto as follows:
ECTION
Notices
If to the Representatives:
Banc of America Securities LLC
Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated
UBS Securities LLC
c/o Banc of America Securities LLC
One Bryant Park
NY1-100-18-03
New York, NY 10036
Facsimile: 646-855-5859
Attention: High Grade Transaction Management/Legal
with a copy to:
Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP
825 Eighth Avenue
New York, NY 10019
Facsimile: 212-474-3700
Attention: LizabethAnn R. Eisen, Esq.
 
If to the Company:
Dell Inc.
One Dell Way
Round Rock, TX 78682
Facsimile: 512-283-0544
Attention: Assistant Secretary
with a copy to:
Vinson & Elkins L.L.P.
3700 Trammell Crow Center
2001 Ross Avenue
Dallas, TX 75201
Facsimile: 214-999-7860
Attention: Robert L. Kimball
Any party hereto may change the address for receipt of communications by giving written notice to the others.
S 15. . This Agreement will inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the parties hereto, including any substitute Underwriters pursuant to Section 10 hereof, and to the benefit of the directors, officers, employees, agents and controlling persons referred to in Sections 8 and 9, and in each case their respective successors, and no other person will have any right or obligation hereunder. The term "successors" shall not include any purchaser of the Notes as such from any of the Underwriters merely by reason of such purchase.
ECTION
Successors
S 16. . The invalidity or unenforceability of any Section, paragraph or provision of this Agreement shall not affect the validity or enforceability of any other Section, paragraph or provision hereof. If any Section, paragraph or provision of this Agreement is for any reason determined to be invalid or unenforceable, there shall be deemed to be made such minor changes (and only such minor changes) as are necessary to make it valid and enforceable.
ECTION
Partial Unenforceability
S 17. . THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED AND INTERPRETED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE INTERNAL LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK APPLICABLE TO AGREEMENTS MADE AND TO BE PERFORMED IN THAT STATE.
ECTION
Governing Law Provisions
S 18. . This Agreement may be executed in two or more counterparts, each one of which shall be an original, with the same effect as if the signatures thereto and hereto were upon the same instrument. This Agreement may not be amended or modified unless in writing by all of the parties hereto, and no condition herein (express or implied) may be waived unless waived in writing by each party whom the condition is meant to benefit. The Section headings herein are for the convenience of the parties only and shall not affect the construction or interpretation of this Agreement.
ECTION
General Provisions
 
Each of the parties hereto acknowledges that it is a sophisticated business person who was adequately represented by counsel during negotiations regarding the provisions hereof, including, without limitation, the indemnification provisions of Section 8 and the contribution provisions of Section 9, and is fully informed regarding said provisions. Each of the parties hereto further acknowledges that the provisions of Sections 8 and 9 hereto fairly allocate the risks in light of the ability of the parties to investigate the Company, its affairs and its business in order to assure that adequate disclosure has been made in the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus (and any amendments and supplements thereto), as required by the Securities Act and the Exchange Act.
 
If the foregoing is in accordance with your understanding of our agreement, kindly sign and return to the Company the enclosed copies hereof, whereupon this instrument, along with all counterparts hereof, shall become a binding agreement in accordance with its terms.
 
 
The foregoing Underwriting Agreement is hereby confirmed and accepted by the Representatives as of the date first above written.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Final Term Sheet dated April 1, 2009 relating to the Notes
 
Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meaning ascribed to such terms in the underwriting agreement, dated April 1, 2009 (the "Underwriting Agreement") among Dell Inc, a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), and Banc of America Securities LLC, Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated and UBS Securities LLC as representatives of the several underwriters listed on Schedule A of the Underwriting Agreement.
(i) The Company is a corporation validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the State of Delaware, with corporate power and authority to own or lease, as the case may be, its properties and conduct its business as described in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus and to authorize, issue and sell the Notes as contemplated by this Agreement.
(ii) The Underwriting Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company.
(iii) The Indenture has been duly qualified under the Trust Indenture Act and has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company and (assuming the due authorization, execution and delivery thereof by the Trustee) constitutes a legal, valid and binding obligation of the Company enforceable against the Company in accordance with its terms (subject, as to enforcement of legal remedies, to applicable bankruptcy, reorganization, insolvency, moratorium or other laws affecting creditors' rights generally from time to time in effect, and, as to remedies of specific performance and injunctive and other forms of equitable relief, to equitable defenses or principles and to the discretion of the court before which any proceeding may therefor be brought).
(iv) The Notes have been duly authorized by the Company and, when executed and authenticated in accordance with the provisions of the Indenture and delivered to and paid for by the Underwriters in accordance with the terms of this Agreement, will constitute legal, valid and binding obligations of the Company entitled to the benefits of the Indenture and enforceable against the Company in accordance with their terms (subject, as to enforcement of legal remedies, to applicable bankruptcy, reorganization, insolvency, moratorium or other laws affecting creditors' rights generally from time to time in effect, and, as to remedies of specific performance and injunctive and other forms of equitable relief, to equitable defenses or principles and to the discretion of the court before which any proceeding may therefor be brought).
(v) The Indenture conforms, and the Notes, when issued and delivered, will conform, in all material respects as to legal matters to the description contained in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus under the caption "Description of Notes" and "Description of Debt Securities."
(vi) The Registration Statement became effective and to the best of our knowledge, no stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement has been issued. The Registration Statement, as of its effective date and as of the date of the Underwriting Agreement, appears on its face to comply as to form in all material respects with the requirements of the Securities Act and the Trust Indenture Act.
 
(vii) The Prospectus, as of its date, appears on its face to comply as to form in all material respects with the requirements of the Securities Act.
(viii) The Disclosure Package, as of the Initial Sale Time, appears on its face to comply as to form in all material respects with the requirements of the Securities Act.
(ix) The statements in each of the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus under the caption "Material United States Federal Income Tax Considerations," insofar as such statements constitute a summary as to legal matters, fairly present and summarize, in all material respects, the legal matters referred to therein.
(x) The Company's execution, delivery and performance of the Underwriting Agreement and the issuance and sale of the Notes (i) will not result in any Default under the certificate of incorporation or by-laws of the Company, (ii) will not result in a breach or violation of any of the terms or provisions of, or constitute a default under, any indenture, mortgage, deed of trust, loan agreement or other agreement or instrument that is included as an exhibit to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended January 30, 2009, and (iii) will not result in any violation of the Delaware General Corporation Law or any United States federal or New York or Texas state statute, law, rule, or regulation, except with respect to clauses (ii) and (iii) above, for such breaches, defaults or violations that would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Change; provided, however, we express no opinion in this opinion (x) with respect to federal or state securities laws or blue sky laws, rules or regulations or any state or federal anti-fraud statute, rule or regulation. No consent, approval, authorization or order of, or filing with, any governmental or regulatory agency or body or any court is required for the Company's execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement and the issuance and sale of the Notes, except (a) such as have been obtained or made on or prior to the date hereof; (b) such as may be required under state securities and blue sky laws; (c) such as may be required after the date hereof pursuant to the Company's periodic reporting obligations under the Exchange Act; (d) those for which the failure to obtain or make would not, either individually or in the aggregate (1) have a Material Adverse Change, or (2) interfere with or adversely affect the issuance of the Notes in any jurisdiction or adversely affect the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, the Disclosure Package or the Notes.
(xi) The Company is not, and after receipt of payment for the Notes and the application of the net proceeds thereof as contemplated under the caption "Use of Proceeds" in the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus will not be, required to register as an "investment company," as such term is defined in the Investment Company Act.
We have participated in conferences with officers and other representatives of the Company, in-house attorneys for the Company, representatives of the registered public accountants for the Company, representatives of the Underwriters and counsel for the Underwriters at which the contents of the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package, the Prospectus and related matters were discussed and, although we did not verify such information
 
and are not passing on and do not assume responsibility for, or express any opinion regarding the accuracy, completeness or fairness of the statements contained in the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus, except as expressly set forth in opinions (v) and (ix) above, on the basis of the foregoing, (relying as to materiality to the extent we deem appropriate on officers, employees and other representatives of the Company), no facts have come to our attention that have caused us to believe that (i) the Registration Statement, at the time it became effective or on the date of this Agreement, contained an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, (ii) the Prospectus, as of its date and as of the Closing Date, contained or contains an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted or omits to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading or (iii) the Disclosure Package as of the Initial Sale Time and as of the Closing Date, contained or contains an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted or omits to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. We express no opinion, view, belief or comment with respect to the form, accuracy, completeness or fairness of the financial statements, notes or schedules thereto or other financial data included in the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus.
 
Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meaning ascribed to such terms in the Underwriting Agreement, dated April 1, 2009 among Dell Inc, a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), and Banc of America Securities LLC, Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated and UBS Securities LLC as representatives of the several underwriters listed on Schedule A of the Underwriting Agreement.
(i) The Company has been duly qualified as a foreign corporation for the transaction of business and is in good standing under the law of the State of Texas.
(ii) To my knowledge and other than as set forth in the Prospectus and the Disclosure Package, there are no legal or governmental actions, suits, proceedings or investigations pending or overtly threatened against the Company or any of its subsidiaries which would reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Change.
(iii) The issue and sale of the Notes and the compliance by the Company with the provisions of the Notes, the Indenture and this Agreement and the consummation of the transactions contemplated therein will not result in any violation of any judgment, order or decree of any court, regulatory body, administrative agency, governmental body, arbitrator or other authority known to me directed to the Company or any of its subsidiaries or any of its or their properties in a proceeding to which any of them or their property is a party, except for any such violation that would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Change.
(iv) The documents incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus, at the time they were filed with the Commission, appear on their face to comply as to form in all material respects with the requirements of the Exchange Act.
 
 
 
A securities rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time.
The issuer has filed a registration statement (including a prospectus) with the SEC for the offering to which this communication relates. Before you invest, you should read the prospectus in that registration statement and other documents the issuer has filed with the SEC for more complete information about the issuer and this offering. You may get these documents for free by visiting EDGAR on the SEC Web site at . Alternatively, any of the Representatives can arrange to send you the prospectus if you request it by calling or e-mailing:
www.sec.gov
Banc of America Securities LLC toll-free at 1-800-294-1322 or
dg.prospectus_distribution@bofasecurities.com
UBS Securities LLC toll-free at 1-877-827-6444 (ext. 561-3884)
Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated toll-free at 1-866-718-1649
 

Exhibit 4.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This cross-reference table shall not, for any purpose, be deemed to be part of the Indenture.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
INDENTURE, dated as of April 6, 2009, between DELL INC., a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (herein called the "Company"), having its principal office at One Dell Way, Round Rock, Texas 78682, and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., a national banking association duly organized and existing under the laws of the United States, as Trustee hereunder (herein called the "Trustee").
The Company has duly authorized the execution and delivery of this Indenture to provide for the issuance from time to time of its unsecured debentures, notes or other evidences of indebtedness (herein called the "Securities"), unlimited as to principal amount, to bear such rates of interest, to mature at such time or times, to be issued in one or more series and to have such other provisions as shall be fixed as hereinafter provided.
All things necessary to make this Indenture a valid agreement of the Company, in accordance with its terms, have been done.
NOW, THEREFORE, THIS INDENTURE WITNESSETH
For and in consideration of the premises and the purchase of the Securities by the Holders thereof, it is mutually agreed, for the equal and proportionate benefit of all Holders of the Securities or of any series thereof, as follows:
Section 101. Definitions.
For all purposes of this Indenture, except as otherwise expressly provided or unless the context otherwise requires:
(1) the terms defined in this Article have the meanings assigned to them in this Article and include the plural as well as the singular;
(2) all other terms used herein which are defined in the Trust Indenture Act, either directly or by reference therein, have the meanings assigned to them therein;
(3) all accounting terms not otherwise defined herein have the meanings assigned to them in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America, and, except as otherwise herein expressly provided, the term "generally accepted accounting principles" with respect to any computation required or permitted hereunder shall mean such accounting principles as are generally accepted at the date of such computation; and
 
(4) the words "herein," "hereof" and "hereunder" and other words of similar import refer to this Indenture as a whole and not to any particular Article, Section or other subdivision.
"Act", when used with respect to any Holder, has the meaning specified in Section 104.
"Affiliate" of any specified Person means any other Person directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by or under direct or indirect common control with such specified Person. For the purposes of this definition, "control" when used with respect to any specified Person means the power to direct the management and policies of such Person, directly or indirectly, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise; and the terms "controlling" and "controlled" have meanings correlative to the foregoing.
"Attributable Indebtedness" when used in connection with a Sale and Lease-Back Transaction involving a Principal Property means, at the time of determination, the lesser of (a) the fair market value of property or assets involved in the Sale and Lease-Back Transaction (as determined in good faith by the Company's Board of Directors), (b) the present value of the total net amount of rent required to be paid under such lease during the remaining term thereof (including any renewal term or period for which such lease has been extended) computed by discounting from the respective due dates to such date such total net amount of rent at the rate of interest set forth or implicit in the terms of such lease or, if not practicable to determine such rate, the rate per annum equal to the weighted average interest rate per annum borne by the Securities of each series Outstanding pursuant to this Indenture compounded semi-annually, or (c) if the obligation with respect to the Sale and Lease-Back Transaction constitutes an obligation that is required to be classified and accounted for as a capitalized lease for financial reporting purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, the amount equal to the capitalized amount of such obligation determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and included in the financial statements of the lessee. For purposes of the foregoing definition, rent shall not include amounts required to be paid by the lessee, whether or not designated as rent or additional rent, on account of or contingent upon maintenance and repairs, insurance, taxes, assessments, water rates and similar charges. In the case of any lease that is terminable by the lessee upon the payment of a penalty, such net amount shall be the lesser of the net amount determined assuming termination upon the first date such lease may be terminated (in which case the net amount shall also include the amount of the penalty, but no rent shall be considered as required to be paid under such lease subsequent to the first date upon which it may be so terminated) or the net amount determined assuming no such termination.
"Authenticating Agent" means any Person authorized by the Trustee pursuant to Section 614 to act on behalf of the Trustee to authenticate Securities of one or more series.
"Board of Directors" means either the board of directors of the Company or any committee of that board duly authorized to act for it in respect thereof.
"Board Resolution" means a copy of one or more resolutions certified by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Company to have been duly adopted by the Board of Directors and to be in full force and effect on the date of such certification, and delivered to the Trustee.
 
"Business Day", when used with respect to any Place of Payment, means each Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and Friday which is not a day on which banking institutions in that Place of Payment are authorized or obligated by law or executive order to close, except as may otherwise be provided in the form of Securities of any particular series pursuant to the provisions of this Indenture.
"Commission" means the Securities and Exchange Commission, as from time to time constituted, created under the Exchange Act, or, if at any time after the execution of this instrument such Commission is not existing and performing the duties now assigned to it under the Trust Indenture Act, then the body performing such duties at such time.
"Company" means the Person named as the "Company" in the first paragraph of this instrument until a successor Person shall have become such pursuant to the applicable provisions of this Indenture, and thereafter "Company" shall mean such successor Person.
"Company Request" or "Company Order" means a written request or order signed in the name of the Company by its Chairman, its Vice Chairman, its President or a Vice President, and by its Treasurer, an Assistant Treasurer, its Secretary or an Assistant Secretary, and delivered to the Trustee.
"Consolidated Net Tangible Assets" means, as of any particular time, the aggregate amount of assets (less applicable reserves and other properly deductible items) after deducting therefrom: (a) all current liabilities except for (1) notes and loans payable, (2) current maturities of long-term debt and (3) current maturities of obligations under capital leases; and (b) to the extent included in such aggregate amount of assets, all goodwill, trade names, trademarks, patents, organization expenses, unamortized debt discount and expenses (other than capitalized unamortized product development costs, such as, without limitation, capitalized hardware and software development costs), all as set forth on the most recent consolidated balance sheet of the Company and its consolidated Subsidiaries and computed in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
"Corporate Trust Office" means the designated office of the Trustee at which at any particular time its corporate trust business shall be conducted, which office, at the date of execution of this Indenture, is located at 601 Travis Street, 16th Floor, Houston, Texas 77002, Attention: Corporate Trust Administration, or at such other address as the Trustee may designate from time to time by notice to the Holders and the Company.
"Covenant Defeasance" has the meaning specified in Section 1303.
"Debt" has the meaning specified in Section 1008.
"Defaulted Interest" has the meaning specified in Section 307.
 
"Defeasance" has the meaning specified in Section 1302.
"Depositary" means, with respect to Securities of any series issuable in whole or in part in the form of one or more Global Securities, a clearing agency registered under the Exchange Act that is designated to act as Depositary for such Securities as contemplated by Section 301(r).
"Equivalent Principal Terms" has the meaning specified in Section 1102.
"Event of Default" has the meaning specified in Section 501.
"Exchange Act" means the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
"Global Security" means a Security that evidences all or part of the Securities of any series and is authenticated and delivered to, and registered in the name of, the Depositary for such Securities or a nominee thereof.
"Holder" means a Person in whose name a Security is registered in the Security Register.
"Indenture" means this instrument as originally executed or as it may from time to time be supplemented or amended by one or more indentures supplemental hereto entered into pursuant to the applicable provisions hereof, including, for all purposes of this instrument and any such supplemental indenture, the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act that are deemed to be a part of and govern this instrument and any such supplemental indenture, respectively. The term "Indenture" shall also include the terms of the particular series of Securities established as contemplated by Section 301; provided, however, that if at any time more than one Person is acting as Trustee under this Indenture due to the appointment of one or more separate Trustees for any one or more separate series of Securities, "Indenture" shall mean, with respect to such series of Securities for which any such Person is Trustee, this instrument as originally executed or as it may from time to time be supplemented or amended by one or more indentures supplemental hereto entered into pursuant to the applicable provisions hereof and shall include the terms of particular series of Securities for which such Person is Trustee established as contemplated by Section 301, exclusive, however, of any provisions or terms which relate solely to other series of Securities for which such Person is not Trustee, regardless of when such terms or provisions were adopted, and exclusive of any provisions or terms adopted by means of one or more indentures supplemental hereto executed and delivered after such Person had become such Trustee, but to which such Person, as such Trustee, was not a party; provided further that in the event that this indenture is supplemented or amended by one or more indentures supplemental hereto which are only applicable to certain series of Securities, the term "Indenture" for a particular series of Securities shall only include the supplemental indentures applicable thereto.
"Interest Payment Date", when used with respect to any Security, means the Stated Maturity of an installment of interest on such Security.
"Judgment Currency" has the meaning specified in Section 506.
 
"Lien" and "liens" have the respective meanings specified in Section 1008.
"Maturity", when used with respect to any Security, means the date on which the principal of such Security or an installment of principal becomes due and payable as therein or herein provided, whether at the Stated Maturity or by declaration of acceleration, call for redemption, exercise of option for repayment or otherwise.
"Nonrecourse Obligation" means indebtedness or other obligations substantially related to (a) the acquisition of assets not previously owned by the Company or any Subsidiary or (b) the financing of a project involving the development or expansion of properties of the Company or any Subsidiary, as to which the obligee with respect to such indebtedness or obligation has no recourse to the Company or any Subsidiary or any assets of the Company or any Subsidiary other than the assets which were acquired with the proceeds of such transaction or the project financed with the proceeds of such transaction (and the proceeds thereof).
"Notice of Default" means a written notice of the kind specified in Section 501(4).
"Officer" means the Chairman, any Vice Chairman, the President, or a Vice President, the Treasurer, an Assistant Treasurer, the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary, of the Company.
"Officers' Certificate" means a certificate signed by the Chairman, any Vice Chairman, the President or a Vice President, and by the Treasurer, an Assistant Treasurer, the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary, of the Company, and delivered to the Trustee.
"Opinion of Counsel" means a written opinion of counsel, who may be counsel for the Company (and who may be an employee of the Company), or other counsel acceptable to the Trustee.
"Original Issue Discount Security" means any Security which provides for an amount less than the principal amount thereof to be due and payable upon a declaration of acceleration of the Maturity thereof pursuant to Section 502.
"Outstanding", when used with respect to Securities, means, as of the date of determination, all Securities theretofore authenticated and delivered under this Indenture, except:
(1) Securities theretofore canceled by the Trustee or delivered to the Trustee for cancellation;
(2) Securities for whose payment or redemption money in the necessary amount has been theretofore deposited with the Trustee or any Paying Agent (other than the Company) in trust or set aside and segregated in trust by the Company (if the Company shall act as its own Paying Agent) for the Holders of such Securities; provided that, if such Securities are to be redeemed, notice of such redemption has been duly given pursuant to this Indenture or provision therefor satisfactory to the Trustee has been made;
 
(3) Securities as to which Defeasance has been effected pursuant to Section 1302; and
(4) Securities which have been paid pursuant to Section 307 or in exchange for or in lieu of which other Securities have been authenticated and delivered pursuant to this Indenture, other than any such Securities in respect of which there shall have been presented to the Trustee proof satisfactory to it that such Securities are held by a bona fide purchaser in whose hands such Securities are valid obligations of the Company; provided, however, that in determining whether the Holders of the requisite principal amount of the Outstanding Securities have given any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent or waiver hereunder or are present at a meeting of Holders for quorum purposes, (a) the principal amount of an Original Issue Discount Security that shall be deemed to be Outstanding shall be the amount of the principal thereof that would be due and payable as of the date of such determination upon acceleration of the Maturity thereof pursuant to Section 502, (b) the principal amount of a Security denominated in one or more foreign currencies or currency units shall be the U.S. dollar equivalent, determined in the manner provided as contemplated by Section 301(l) on the date of original issuance of such Security, of the principal amount (or, in the case of an Original Issue Discount Security, the U.S. dollar equivalent on the date of original issuance of such Security of the amount determined as provided in (a) above) of such Security, and (c) Securities owned by the Company or any other obligor upon the Securities or any Affiliate of the Company or of such other obligor shall be disregarded and deemed not to be Outstanding, except that, in determining whether the Trustee shall be protected in relying upon any such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent or waiver or upon any such determination as to the presence of a quorum, only Securities which the Trustee knows to be so owned shall be so disregarded. Securities so owned which have been pledged in good faith may be regarded as Outstanding if the pledgee establishes to the satisfaction of the Trustee the pledgee's right so to act with respect to such Securities and that the pledgee is not the Company or any other obligor upon the Securities or any Affiliate of the Company or of such other obligor.
"Paying Agent" has the meaning specified in Section 305.
"Permitted Liens" means (a) liens on property, shares of stock, indebtedness or other assets of any Person existing at the time such Person becomes a Subsidiary; provided that such liens are not incurred in anticipation of such Person becoming a Subsidiary; (b)(i) liens on property, shares of stock, indebtedness or other assets existing at the time of acquisition thereof by the Company or a Subsidiary or liens thereon to secure the payment of all or any part of the purchase price thereof, or (ii) liens on property, shares of stock, indebtedness or other assets to secure any Debt incurred prior to, at the time of, or within one year after, the latest of the acquisition thereof, or, in the case of property, the completion of construction, the completion of improvements or the commencement of substantial commercial operation of such property for the purpose of financing all or any part of the purchase price thereof, such construction or the making of such improvements; (c) liens to secure Debt owing to the Company or to a Subsidiary; (d) liens existing on the date of initial issuance of the Securities of such series; (e) liens on
 
property or other assets of a Person (which is not a Subsidiary) existing at the time such Person is merged into or consolidated with the Company or a Subsidiary or at the time of a sale, lease or other disposition of the properties of a Person as an entirety or substantially as an entirety to the Company or a Subsidiary; (f) liens in favor of the United States of America or any State, territory or possession thereof (or the District of Columbia), or any department, agency, instrumentality or political subdivision of the United States of America or any State, territory or possession thereof (or the District of Columbia), to secure partial, progress, advance or other payments pursuant to any contract or statute or to secure any Debt incurred for the purpose of financing all or any part of the purchase price or the cost of constructing or improving the property subject to such liens; (g) liens created in connection with a project financed with, and created to secure, a Nonrecourse Obligation; (h) liens on any property to secure bonds for the construction, installation or financing of pollution control or abatement facilities, or other forms of industrial revenue bond financing, or indebtedness issued or guaranteed by the United States, any State or any department, agency or instrumentality thereof; and (i) any extensions, renewals or replacements (or successive extensions, renewals or replacements), in whole or in part, of any lien referred to in the foregoing clauses (a) through (h), without increase of the principal of the Debt secured thereby; provided, however, that any liens permitted by any of the foregoing clauses (a) through (h) shall not extend to or cover any property of the Company or such Subsidiary, as the case may be, other than the property specified in such clauses and improvements thereto.
"Person" means any individual, corporation, partnership, limited liability company, joint venture, association, joint-stock company, trust, unincorporated organization, government or any agency or political subdivision thereof or any other entity.
"Place of Payment", when used with respect to the Securities of any series, means the place or places where the principal of and any premium and interest on the Securities of that series are payable as specified as contemplated by Section 301.
"Predecessor Security" of any particular Security means every previous Security evidencing all or a portion of the same debt as that evidenced by such particular Security and, for the purposes of this definition, any Security authenticated and delivered under Section 306 in exchange for or in lieu of a mutilated, destroyed, lost or wrongfully taken Security shall be deemed to evidence the same debt as the mutilated, destroyed, lost or wrongfully taken Security.
"Principal Property" means the land, land improvements, buildings and fixtures (to the extent they constitute real property interests) (including any leasehold interest therein) constituting the principal corporate office, any manufacturing plant or any manufacturing facility (whether owned at the date of this Indenture or thereafter acquired) and the equipment located thereon which (a) is owned by the Company or any Subsidiary; (b) has not been determined in good faith by the Board of Directors not to be materially important to the total business conducted by the Company and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole; and (c) has a net book value on the date as of which the determination is being made in excess of 1% of Consolidated Net Tangible Assets of the Company as most recently determined on or prior to such date (including for purposes of such calculation the land, land improvements, buildings and such fixtures comprising such office, plant or facility, as the case may be).
 
"Redemption Date", when used with respect to any Security to be redeemed, means the date fixed for such redemption by or pursuant to this Indenture.
"Redemption Price", when used with respect to any Security to be redeemed, means the price at which it is to be redeemed pursuant to this Indenture.
"Regular Record Date" for the interest payable on any Interest Payment Date on the Securities of any series means the date specified for that purpose as contemplated by Section 301.
"Repayment Date", when used with respect to any Security to be repaid upon exercise of option for repayment by the Holders, means the date fixed for such repayment by or pursuant to this Indenture.
"Repayment Price", when used with respect to any Security to be repaid upon the exercise of an option for repayment by the Holder, means the price at which it is to be repaid pursuant to this Indenture.
"Required Currency" has the meaning specified in Section 506.
"Sale and Lease-Back Transaction" means any arrangement with any Person providing for the leasing by the Company or any Subsidiary of any Principal Property, which property has been or is to be sold or transferred by the Company or such Subsidiary to such Person, other than (a) any such transaction involving a lease for a term of not more than three years, (b) any such transaction between the Company and a Subsidiary or between Subsidiaries, or (c) any such transaction executed by the time of or within one year after the latest of the acquisition, the completion of construction or improvement or the commencement of commercial operation of such Principal Property.
"Security" or "Securities" has the meaning stated in the first recital of this Indenture and more particularly means any Security or Securities authenticated and delivered under this Indenture.
"Security Register" and "Security Registrar" have the respective meanings specified in Section 305.
"series" means Securities that bear the same rate of interest and have the same Stated Maturities.
"Special Record Date" for the payment of any Defaulted Interest means a date fixed by the Trustee pursuant to Section 307(1).
"Stated Maturity", when used with respect to any Security or any installment of principal thereof or interest thereon, means the date specified in such Security as the fixed date on which the principal of such Security or such installment of principal or interest is due and payable.
 
"Subsidiary" means (a) any Person of which more than 50% of the outstanding voting stock is at the time owned, directly or indirectly, by the Company or by one or more other Subsidiaries of the Company, or (b) any other Person (other than a corporation) in which the Company or one or more other Subsidiaries of the Company directly or indirectly has more than 50% equity ownership and power to direct the policies, management and affairs thereof. For the purposes of this definition, "voting stock" means stock that ordinarily has voting power for the election of directors, whether at all times or only so long as no senior class of stock has such voting power by reason of any contingency.
"Successor Company" has the meaning specified in Section 801.
"Trust Indenture Act" means the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 as in force at the date as of which this instrument was executed, except as provided in Section 905; provided, however, that in the event the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 is amended after such date, "Trust Indenture Act" means, to the extent required by any such amendment, the Trust Indenture Act of 1939.
"Trust Officer" means the Chairman of the Board, the President or any other officer or assistant officer of the Trustee assigned by the Trustee to administer its corporate trust matters.
"Trustee" means the Person named as the "Trustee" in the first paragraph of this instrument until a successor Trustee shall have become such pursuant to the applicable provisions of this Indenture, and thereafter "Trustee" shall mean or include each Person who is then a Trustee hereunder, and if at any time there is more than one such Person, "Trustee" as used with respect to the Securities of any series shall mean the Trustee with respect to Securities of that series.
"Uniform Commercial Code" means the New York Uniform Commercial Code as in effect from time to time.
"U.S. Government Obligations" means securities that are (a) direct obligations of the United States of America for the payment of which its full faith and credit is pledged or (b) obligations of a Person controlled or supervised by and acting as an agency or instrumentality of the United States of America, the timely payment of which is unconditionally guaranteed as a full faith and credit obligation by the United States of America, which, in either case under clauses (a) or (b) are not callable or redeemable at the option of the issuer thereof, and shall also include a depository receipt issued by a bank (as defined in Section 3(a)(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended) as custodian with respect to any such U.S. Government Obligation or a specific payment of interest on or principal of any such U.S. Government Obligation held by such custodian for the account of the holder of a depository receipt, provided that (except as required by law) such custodian is not authorized to make any deduction from the amount payable to the holder of such depository receipt from any amount received by the custodian in respect of the U.S. Government Obligation or the specific payment of principal of or interest on the U.S. Government Obligation evidenced by such depository receipt.
 
"Vice President", when used with respect to the Company, means any vice president, whether or not designated by a number or a word or words added before or after the title "vice president".
Section 102. Certificates and Opinions.
Upon any application or request by the Company to the Trustee to take any action under any provision of this Indenture, the Company shall furnish to the Trustee such certificates and opinions as may be required under the Trust Indenture Act. Each such certificate or opinion shall be given in the form of an Officers' Certificate, if to be given by an officer of the Company, or an Opinion of Counsel, if to be given by counsel, and shall comply with the requirements of the Trust Indenture Act and any other requirements set forth in this Indenture.
Every certificate or opinion with respect to compliance with a condition or covenant provided for in this Indenture (other than those provided for in Section 1004) shall include:
(1) a statement that each individual signing such certificate or opinion has read such covenant or condition and the definitions herein related thereto;
(2) a brief statement as to the nature and scope of the examination or investigation upon which the statements or opinions contained in such certificate or opinion are based;
(3) a statement that, in the opinion of each such individual, he has made such examination or investigation as is necessary to enable him to express an informed opinion as to whether or not such covenant or condition has been complied with; and
(4) a statement as to whether, in the opinion of each such individual, such condition or covenant has been complied with.
Section 103. Form of Documents Delivered to Trustee.
In any case where several matters are required to be certified by, or covered by an opinion of, any specified Person, it is not necessary that all such matters be certified by, or covered by the opinion of, only one such Person, or that they be so certified or covered by only one document, but one such Person may certify or give an opinion with respect to some matters and one or more other such Persons as to other matters, and any such Person may certify or give an opinion as to such matters in one or several documents.
Any certificate or opinion of an officer of the Company may be based, insofar as it relates to legal matters, upon a certificate or opinion of, or representations by, counsel, unless such officer knows, or in the exercise of reasonable care should know, that the certificate or opinion or representations with respect to the matters upon which his certificate or opinion is based are erroneous. Any such certificate or opinion of counsel may be based, insofar as it
 
relates to factual matters, upon a certificate or opinion of, or representations by, an officer or officers of the Company stating that the information with respect to such factual matters is in the possession of the Company, unless such counsel knows, or in the exercise of reasonable care should know, that the certificate or opinion or representations with respect to such matters are erroneous.
Where any Person is required to make, give or execute two or more applications, requests, consents, certificates, statements, opinions or other instruments under this Indenture, they may, but need not, be consolidated and form one instrument.
Section 104. Acts of Holders; Record Dates.
(a) Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action provided by this Indenture to be given or taken by Holders may be embodied in and evidenced by one or more instruments of substantially similar tenor signed by such Holders in person or by an agent duly appointed in writing; and, except as herein otherwise expressly provided, such action shall become effective when such instrument or instruments are delivered to the Trustee and, where it is hereby expressly required, to the Company. Such instrument or instruments (and the action embodied therein and evidenced thereby) are herein sometimes referred to as the "Act" of the Holders signing such instrument or instruments. Proof of execution of any such instrument or of a writing appointing any such agent shall be sufficient for any purpose of this Indenture and (subject to Section 601) conclusive in favor of the Trustee and the Company, if made in the manner provided in this Section.
(b) The fact and date of the execution by any Person of any such instrument or writing may be proved by the affidavit of a witness of such execution or by a certificate of a notary public or other officer authorized by law to take acknowledgments of deeds, certifying that the individual signing such instrument or writing acknowledged to him the execution thereof. Where such execution is by a signer acting in a capacity other than his individual capacity, such certificate or affidavit shall also constitute sufficient proof of his authority. The fact and date of the execution of any such instrument or writing, or the authority of the Person executing the same, may also be proved in any other manner which the Trustee deems sufficient.
(c) The ownership of Securities shall be proved by the Security Register.
(d) Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other Act of the Holder of any Security shall bind every future Holder of the same Security and the Holder of every Security issued upon the registration of transfer thereof or in exchange therefor or in lieu thereof in respect of anything done, omitted or suffered to be done by the Trustee or the Company in reliance thereon, whether or not notation of such action is made upon such Security.
(e) The Company may, in the circumstances permitted by the Trust Indenture Act, fix any day as the record date for the purpose of determining the Holders of Securities of any series entitled to give or take any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action, or to vote on any action, authorized or permitted to be given or taken by Holders of Securities of such series. If not set by the Company prior to the first solicitation of a
 
Holder of Securities of such series made by any Person in respect of any such action, or, in the case of any such vote, prior to such vote, the record date for any such action or vote shall be the 30th day (or, if later, the date of the most recent list of Holders required to be provided pursuant to Section 701) prior to such first solicitation or vote, as the case may be. With regard to any record date for action to be taken by the Holders of one or more series of Securities, only the Holders of Securities of such series on such date (or their duly designated proxies) shall be entitled to give or take, or vote on, the relevant action. With regard to any record date set pursuant to this paragraph, the Holders of Outstanding Securities of the relevant series on such record date (or their duly appointed agents), and only such Persons, shall be entitled to give or take the relevant action, whether or not such Holders remain Holders after such record date. With regard to any action that may be given or taken hereunder only by Holders of a requisite principal amount of Outstanding Securities of any series (or their duly appointed agents) and for which a record date is set pursuant to this paragraph, the Company may, at its option, set an expiration date after which no such action purported to be given or taken by any Holder shall be effective hereunder unless given or taken on or prior to such expiration date by Holders of the requisite principal amount of Outstanding Securities of such series on such record date (or their duly appointed agents). On or prior to any expiration date set pursuant to this paragraph, the Company may, on one or more occasions at its option, extend such date to any later date. Nothing in this paragraph shall prevent any Holder (or any duly appointed agent thereof) from giving or taking, after any expiration date, any action identical to, or, at any time, contrary to or different from, any action given or taken, or purported to have been given or taken, hereunder by a Holder on or prior to such date, in which event the Company may set a record date in respect thereof pursuant to this paragraph. Notwithstanding the foregoing or the Trust Indenture Act, the Company shall not set a record date for, and the provisions of this paragraph shall not apply with respect to, any action to be given or taken by Holders pursuant to Section 501, 502 or 512.
(f) Without limiting the foregoing, a Holder entitled hereunder to give or take any action hereunder with regard to any particular Security may do so with regard to all or any part of the principal amount of such Security or by one or more duly appointed agents each of which may do so pursuant to such appointment with regard to all or any different part of such principal amount.
Section 105. Notices, Etc., to Trustee and Company.
Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or Act of Holders or other document provided or permitted by this Indenture to be made upon, given or furnished to, or filed with,
(1) the Trustee by any Holder or by the Company shall be sufficient for every purpose hereunder if made, given, furnished or filed in writing to or with the Trustee at its Corporate Trust Office, Attention: Corporate Trust Administration, or
(2) the Company by the Trustee or by any Holder shall be sufficient for every purpose hereunder (unless otherwise herein expressly provided) if in writing and mailed, first-class postage prepaid, to the Company addressed to the attention of the Treasurer at the address of the Company's principal office specified in the first paragraph of this instrument or at any other address previously furnished in writing to the Trustee by the Company; provided, however, that such notice shall not be deemed to be given until received by the Company.
 
Section 106. Notice to Holders; Waiver.
Where this Indenture provides for notice to Holders of any event, such notice shall be sufficiently given (unless otherwise herein expressly provided) if in writing and mailed, first-class postage prepaid, to each Holder affected by such event, at his address as it appears in the Security Register, not later than the latest date (if any), and not earlier than the earliest date (if any), prescribed for the giving of such notice. In any case where notice to Holders is given by mail, neither the failure to mail such notice, nor any defect in any notice so mailed, to any particular Holder shall affect the sufficiency of such notice with respect to other Holders. Where this Indenture provides for notice in any manner, such notice may be waived in writing by the Person entitled to receive such notice, either before or after the event, and such waiver shall be the equivalent of such notice. Waivers of notice by Holders shall be filed with the Trustee, but such filing shall not be a condition precedent to the validity of any action taken in reliance upon such waiver.
In case by reason of the suspension of regular mail service or by reason of any other cause it shall be impracticable to give such notice by mail, then such notification as shall be made with the approval of the Trustee shall constitute a sufficient notification for every purpose hereunder.
Section 107. Conflict with Trust Indenture Act.
If any provision hereof limits, qualifies or conflicts with a provision of the Trust Indenture Act that is required under such Act to be a part of and govern this Indenture, the latter provision shall control. If any provision of this Indenture modifies or excludes any provision of the Trust Indenture Act that may be so modified or excluded, the latter provision shall be deemed to apply to this Indenture as so modified or to be excluded, as the case may be.
Section 108. Effect of Headings and Table of Contents.
The Article and Section headings herein, the Table of Contents and cross-reference sheet are for convenience only, are not intended to be considered a part hereof and shall not modify or restrict any of the terms or provisions hereof.
Section 109. Successors and Assigns.
All covenants and agreements in this Indenture and the Securities by the Company shall bind its successors and assigns, whether so expressed or not. All agreements of the Trustee in this Indenture shall bind its successors.
 
Section 110. Separability Clause.
In case any provision in this Indenture or in the Securities shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.
Section 111. Benefits of Indenture.
Nothing in this Indenture or in the Securities, express or implied, shall give to any Person, other than the parties hereto and their successors hereunder, any Authenticating Agent, Paying Agent, Security Registrar and the Holders, any benefit or any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under this Indenture.
Section 112. Governing Law.
This Indenture and the Securities shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.
Section 113. Legal Holidays.
In any case where any Interest Payment Date, Redemption Date, Repayment Date or Stated Maturity of any Security shall not be a Business Day at any Place of Payment, then (notwithstanding any other provision of this Indenture or the Securities (other than a provision of the Securities of any series which specifically states that such provision shall apply in lieu of this Section)) payment of interest or principal (and premium, if any) need not be made at such Place of Payment on such date, but may be made on the next succeeding Business Day at such Place of Payment with the same force and effect as if made on the Interest Payment Date, Redemption Date or Repayment Date or at the Stated Maturity; provided that no interest shall accrue for the period from and after such Interest Payment Date, Redemption Date, Repayment Date or Stated Maturity, as the case may be.
Section 114. No Recourse Against Others.
An incorporator or any past, present or future director, officer, employee or stockholder, as such, of the Company shall not have any liability for any obligations of the Company under the Securities or this Indenture or for any claim based on or otherwise in respect of the Securities or the Indenture. By accepting a Security, each Holder shall waive and release all such liability. The waiver and release shall be part of the consideration for the issue of the Securities.
Section 115. Counterparts.
This instrument may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which so executed shall be deemed to be an original, but all such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.
 
Section 116. Force Majeure.
Subject to Section 601, in no event shall the Trustee be responsible or liable for any failure or delay in the performance of its obligations hereunder arising out of or caused by, directly or indirectly, forces beyond its control, including, without limitation, strikes, work stoppages, accidents, acts of war or terrorism, civil or military disturbances, nuclear or natural catastrophes or acts of God, and interruptions, loss or malfunctions of utilities, communications or computer (software and hardware) services; it being understood that the Trustee shall use reasonable efforts that are consistent with accepted practices in the banking industry to resume performance as soon as practicable under the circumstances.
Section 117. Waiver of Jury Trial.
EACH OF THE COMPANY AND THE TRUSTEE HEREBY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ANY RIGHT IT MAY HAVE TO A TRIAL BY JURY IN RESPECT OF ANY LITIGATION DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY ARISING OUT OF, UNDER OR IN CONNECTION WITH THIS INDENTURE.
Section 201. Forms Generally.
The Securities of each series shall be in substantially the form set forth in this Article, or in such other form as shall be established by or pursuant to a Board Resolution or in one or more indentures supplemental hereto, in each case with such appropriate insertions, omissions, substitutions and other variations as are required or permitted by this Indenture, and may have such letters, numbers or other marks of identification and such legends or endorsements placed thereon as may be required to comply with the rules of any securities exchange or as may, consistently herewith, be determined by the officers executing such Securities, as evidenced by their execution of the Securities. If the form of Securities of any series is established by action taken pursuant to a Board Resolution, a copy of an appropriate record of such action shall be certified by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Company and delivered to the Trustee at or prior to the delivery of the Company Order contemplated by Section 303 for the authentication and delivery of such Securities.
The definitive Securities shall be printed, lithographed or engraved on steel engraved borders or may be produced in any other manner, all as determined by the officers executing such Securities, as evidenced by their execution of such Securities.
Section 202. Form of Face of Security.
[INSERT ANY LEGEND REQUIRED BY THE INTERNAL REVENUE CODE AND THE REGULATIONS THEREUNDER.]
 
 
DELL INC., a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (herein called the "Company," which term includes any successor Person under the Indenture hereinafter referred to), for value received, hereby promises to pay to             , or registered assigns, the principal sum of             Dollars on             [IF THE SECURITY IS TO BEAR INTEREST PRIOR TO MATURITY, INSERT, and to pay interest thereon from             or from the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, semiannually on             and             in each year, commencing             , at the rate of     % per annum, until the principal hereof is paid or made available for payment [IF APPLICABLE, INSERT, and (to the extent that the payment of such interest shall be legally enforceable) at the rate of     % per annum on any overdue principal and premium and on any overdue installment of interest]. The interest so payable, and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date will, as provided in such Indenture, be paid to the Person in whose name this Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest, which shall be the             or             (whether or not a Business Day), as the case may be, next preceding such Interest Payment Date. Any such interest not so punctually paid or duly provided for will forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on such Regular Record Date and may either be paid to the Person in whose name this Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest to be fixed by the Trustee, notice whereof shall be given to Holders of Securities of this series not less than 10 days prior to such Special Record Date, or be paid at any time in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which the Securities of this series may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, all as more fully provided in said Indenture.]
[IF THE SECURITY IS NOT TO BEAR INTEREST PRIOR TO MATURITY, INSERTThe principal of this Security shall not bear interest except in the case of a default in payment of principal upon acceleration, upon redemption, upon repayment or at Stated Maturity and in such case the overdue principal of this Security shall bear interest at the rate of             % per annum (to the extent that the payment of such interest shall be legally enforceable), which shall accrue from the date of such default in payment to the date payment of such principal has been made or duly provided for. Interest on any overdue principal shall be payable on demand. Any such interest on any overdue principal that is not so paid on demand shall bear interest at the rate of     % per annum (to the extent that the payment of such interest shall be legally enforceable), which shall accrue from the date of such demand for payment to the date payment of such interest has been made or duly provided for, and such interest shall also be payable on demand.]
 
Payment of principal of (and premium, if any) and [IF APPLICABLE, INSERTany such] interest on this Security will be made at the office or agency of the Trustee maintained for that purpose in             , in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts. In the event the Global Security representing the Securities becomes exchangeable for definitive Securities pursuant to the terms of the Indenture, at the option of the Company payment of interest may be made by check mailed to the address of the Person entitled thereto as such address shall appear in the Security Register.
[IF APPLICABLE, INSERTSo long as all of the Securities of this series are represented by Global Securities, the principal of, premium, if any, and interest, if any, on this Global Security shall be paid in same day funds to the Depositary, or to such name or entity as is requested by an authorized representative of the Depositary. If at any time the Securities of this series are no longer represented by the Global Securities and are issued in definitive form ("Certificated Securities"), then the principal of, premium, if any, and interest, if any, on each Certificated Security at Maturity shall be paid in same day funds to the Holder upon surrender of such Certificated Security at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee, or at such other place or places as may be designated in or pursuant to the Indenture, provided that such Certificated Security is surrendered to the Trustee, acting as Paying Agent, in time for the Paying Agent to make such payments in such funds in accordance with its normal procedures. Payments of interest with respect to Certificated Securities other than at Maturity may, at the option of the Company, be made by check mailed to the address of the Person entitled thereto as it appears on the Security Register on the relevant Regular or Special Record Date or by wire transfer in same day funds to such account as may have been appropriately designated to the Paying Agent by such Person in writing not later than such relevant Regular or Special Record Date.]
Reference is hereby made to the further provisions of this Security set forth on the reverse hereof, which further provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at this place.
Unless the certificate of authentication hereof has been executed by the Trustee referred to on the reverse hereof by manual signature, this Security shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed under its corporate seal.
 
 
Section 203. Form of Reverse of Security.
This Security is one of a duly authorized issue of securities of the Company (herein called the "Securities"), issued and to be issued in one or more series under an Indenture, dated as of             ,             (herein called the "Indenture"), between the Company and [Name of Trustee], as Trustee (herein called the "Trustee," which term includes any successor trustee under the Indenture), to which Indenture and all indentures supplemental thereto reference is hereby made for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and immunities thereunder of the Company, the Trustee and the Holders of the Securities and of the terms upon which the Securities are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered. This Security is one of the series designated on the face hereof [, limited in aggregate amount to $            ].
[IF APPLICABLE, INSERTThe Securities of this series are subject to redemption upon not less than 30 days' notice by mail, [IF APPLICABLE, INSERT(1) on             in any year commencing with the year and ending with the year             through operation of the sinking fund for this series at a Redemption Price equal to 100% of the principal amount, and (2)] at any time [on or after             ,             ], as a whole or in part, at the election of the Company, at the following Redemption Prices (expressed as percentages of the principal amount): If redeemed [on or before             ,             %, and if redeemed] during the 12 month period beginning             of the years indicated, and thereafter at a Redemption Price equal to             % of the principal amount, together in the case of any such redemption [IF APPLICABLE, INSERT(whether through operation of the sinking fund or otherwise) ] with accrued interest to the Redemption Date, but interest installments whose Stated Maturity is on or prior to such Redemption Date will be payable to the Holders of such Securities, or one or more Predecessor Securities, of record at the close of business on the relevant Record Dates referred to on the face hereof, all as provided in the Indenture.]
 
[IF APPLICABLE, INSERTThe Securities of this series are subject to redemption upon not less than 30 days' notice by mail, (1) on             in any year commencing with the year             and ending with the year             through operation of the sinking fund for this series at the Redemption Prices for redemption through operation of the sinking fund (expressed as percentages of the principal amount) set forth in the table below, and (2) at any time [on or after             ], as a whole or in part, at the election of the Company, at the Redemption Prices for redemption otherwise than through operation of the sinking fund (expressed as percentages of the principal amount) set forth in the table below: If redeemed during the 12-month period beginning             of the years indicated, and thereafter at a Redemption Price equal to             % of the principal amount, together in the case of any such redemption (whether through operation of the sinking fund or otherwise) with accrued interest to the Redemption Date, but interest installments whose Stated Maturity is on or prior to such Redemption Date will be payable to the Holders of such Securities, or one or more Predecessor Securities, of record at the close of business on the relevant Record Dates referred to on the face hereof, all as provided in the Indenture.]
 
[Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company may not, prior to             , redeem any Securities of this series as contemplated by [Clause (2) of] the preceding paragraph as a part of, or in anticipation of, any refunding operation by the application, directly or indirectly, of moneys borrowed having an interest cost to the Company (calculated in accordance with generally accepted financial practice) of less than             % per annum.]
[The sinking fund for this series provides for the redemption on             in each year beginning with the year             and ending with the year             of [not less than $            ("mandatory sinking fund") and not more than] $            aggregate principal amount of Securities of this series. Securities of this series acquired or redeemed by the Company otherwise than through [mandatory] sinking fund payments may be credited against subsequent [mandatory] sinking fund payments otherwise required to be made [in the inverse order in which they become due].]
[IF THE SECURITY IS TO BE SUBJECT TO REPAYMENT AT THE OPTION OF THE HOLDER, INSERTTo be repaid at the option of the Holder, the Company must receive this Security, with the form of "Option to Elect Repayment" hereon duly completed, at an office or agency of the Company maintained for that purpose in             (or at such other place of which the Company shall from time to time notify the Holder of this Security) not less than             nor more than             days prior to the Repayment Date. The exercise of the repayment option by the Holder shall be irrevocable.]
[IF THE SECURITY IS SUBJECT TO REDEMPTION, INSERTIn the event of redemption of this Security in part only, a new Security or Securities of this series and of like tenor for the unredeemed portion hereof will be issued in the name of the Holder hereof upon the cancellation hereof.]
[IF THE SECURITY IS NOT AN ORIGINAL ISSUE DISCOUNT SECURITY, INSERTIf an Event of Default with respect to Securities of this series shall occur and be continuing, the principal of the Securities of this series may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture.]
[IF THE SECURITY IS AN ORIGINAL ISSUE DISCOUNT SECURITY, INSERTIf an Event of Default with respect to Securities of this series shall occur and be continuing, an amount of principal of the Securities of this series may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture. Such amount shall be equal
 
toINSERT FORMULA FOR DETERMINING THE AMOUNT. Upon payment (i) of the amount of principal so declared due and payable and (ii) of interest on any overdue principal and overdue interest (in each case to the extent that the payment of such interest shall be legally enforceable), all of the Company's obligations in respect of the payment of the principal of and interest, if any, on the Securities of this series shall terminate.]
The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the amendment thereof and the modification of the rights and obligations of the Company and the rights of the Holders of the Securities of each series to be affected under the Indenture at any time by the Company and the Trustee with the consent of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Securities at the time Outstanding of each series to be affected. The Indenture also contains provisions permitting the Holders of specified percentages in principal amount of the Securities of each series at the time Outstanding, on behalf of the Holders of Securities of such series, to waive compliance by the Company with certain provisions of the Indenture and certain defaults under the Indenture and their consequences. Any such consent or waiver by the Holder of this Security shall be conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all future Holders of this Security and of any Security issued upon the registration of transfer hereof or in exchange hereof or in lieu hereof, whether or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Security.
[IF APPLICABLE, INSERTEach of the defeasance and covenant defeasance provisions of Article Thirteen of the Indenture shall apply to this Security.]
No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Security or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of and any premium and interest on this Security at the times, place and rate, and in the coin or currency, herein prescribed.
As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the transfer of this Security is registrable in the Security Register, upon surrender of this Security for registration of transfer at the office or agency of the Company in any place where the principal of and any premium and interest on this Security are payable, duly endorsed by, or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Security Registrar, duly executed by the Holder hereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon one or more new Securities of this series and of like tenor, of authorized denominations and for the same aggregate principal amount, will be issued to the designated transferee or transferees.
The Securities of this series are issuable only in registered form without coupons in denominations of $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof. As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, Securities of this series are exchangeable for a like aggregate principal amount of Securities of this series of a different authorized denomination, as requested by the Holder surrendering the same.
 
No service charge shall be made for any such registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge payable in connection therewith.
Prior to due presentment of this Security for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name this Security is registered as the owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this Security be overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
This Security shall for all purposes be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York.
The terms used in this Security that are defined in the Indenture shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture.
The undersigned hereby irrevocably requests and instructs the Company to repay the within Security (or portion thereof specified below) pursuant to its terms at a price equal to the principal amount thereof, together with interest to the Repayment Date, to the undersigned, at
 
For this Security to be repaid, the Company must receive this Security, with this "Option to Elect Repayment" form duly completed, at an office or agency of the Company maintained for that purpose in             , or at such other place of which the Company shall from time to time notify the Holder, no less than             days nor more than             days prior to [            , or             ] [the            or            (commencing on             )].
If less than the entire principal amount of the within Security is to be repaid, specify the portion thereof (which shall be $2,000 or integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof) which the Holder elects to have repaid: $            .
Dated:
                        
 
Note: The signature must correspond with the name as written upon the face of the Security in every particular without alteration or enlargement
Section 204. Form of Legend for Global Securities.
Any Global Security authenticated and delivered hereunder may bear any legend required to comply with the requirements of any Depositary.
Section 205. Form of Trustee's Certificate of Authentication.
The Trustee's certificates of authentication on all Securities authenticated by the Trustee shall be in substantially the following form:
This is one of the Securities of the series designated therein referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
 
Section 301. Amount Unlimited; Issuable in Series.
The aggregate principal amount of Securities which may be issued, executed, authenticated, delivered and Outstanding under this Indenture is unlimited.
The Securities may be issued from time to time in one or more series as may be authorized from time to time by the Company's Board of Directors. There shall be established in or pursuant to a Board Resolution and, subject to Section 303, set forth, or determined in a manner provided, in an Officers' Certificate, or established in one or more indentures supplemental hereto, prior to the issuance of Securities of any series any or all of the following:
(a) the title of the Securities of the series (which shall distinguish the Securities of the series from all other Securities);
 
(b) any limit upon the aggregate principal amount of the Securities of the series that may be authenticated and delivered under this Indenture (except for Securities authenticated and delivered upon registration of transfer of, or in exchange for, or in lieu of, other Securities of the series pursuant to Section 304, 305, 306, 906, 1107 or 1403 and except for any Securities which, pursuant to Section 303, are deemed never to have been authenticated and delivered hereunder);
(c) the price or prices at which the Securities will be sold;
(d) the Person to whom any interest on a Security of the series shall be payable, if other than the Person in whose name that Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date;
(e) the date or dates on which the principal and premium, if any, of the Securities of the series are payable;
(f) the rate or rates (which may be fixed or variable) at which the Securities of the series shall bear interest, if any, or the method of determining the rate or rates, the date or dates from which such interest shall accrue, the Interest Payment Dates on which any such interest shall be payable or the method by which the dates will be determined, the Regular Record Date for any interest payable on any Interest Payment Date and the basis upon which interest shall be calculated if other than that of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months;
(g) the place or places where the principal of and any premium and interest on Securities of the series shall be payable, if other than The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., 101 Barclay, 7 East, New York, NY 10286, Attention: Corporate Trust;
(h) the period or periods within which and the terms and conditions upon which the Securities of the series may be redeemed, in whole or in part, at the option of the Company or otherwise;
(i) the obligation of the Company, if any, to redeem, purchase or repay the Securities of the series pursuant to any sinking fund or analogous provisions or at the option of a Holder thereof and the period or periods within which, the price or prices at which and the terms and conditions upon which such Securities of the series shall be redeemed, purchased or repaid, in whole or in part, pursuant to such obligation, and any provisions for the remarketing of such Securities;
(j) the terms, if any, upon which Securities of the series may be exchanged for other securities of the Company and the terms and conditions upon which the exchange shall be effected, including the initial exchange price or rate, the exchange period and any other additional provisions;
(k) if other than denominations of $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof, the denominations in which the Securities of the series shall be issuable;
 
(l) the currency, currencies or currency units in which payment of principal of and any premium and interest on Securities of the series shall be payable, if other than the currency of the United States of America;
(m) any index, formula or other method used to determine the amount of payments of principal of or any premium or interest on the Securities;
(n) if the principal amount payable at the stated maturity of the Securities of the series will not be determinable as of any one or more dates prior to the stated maturity, the amount that will be deemed to be the principal amount as of any date for any purpose, including the principal amount thereof which will be due and payable upon any maturity other than the stated maturity or which will be deemed to be outstanding as of any date (or, in any such case, the manner in which the deemed principal amount is to be determined), and, if necessary, the manner of determining the equivalent thereof in United States currency;
(o) if the principal of or any premium or interest on any Securities of the series is to be payable, at the election of the Company or the Holders thereof, in one or more currencies or currency units other than that or those in which the Securities are stated to be payable, the currency, currencies or currency units in which payment of the principal of and any premium and interest on Securities of such series shall be payable, and the periods within which and the terms and conditions upon which such election is to be made;
(p) the applicability of, and any addition to or change in, the covenants and definitions then set forth in this Indenture or in terms then set forth herein relating to permitted consolidations, mergers or sale of assets;
(q) any changes or additions to the provisions provided in Article Thirteen of this Indenture dealing with defeasance, including the addition of additional covenants that may be subject to the Company's covenant defeasance option;
(r) whether any of the Securities of such series shall be issuable in permanent global form and, if so, the Depositary or Depositaries for such Global Security or Global Securities and the terms and conditions, if any, other than those set forth in Section 305, upon which interests in such Global Security may be exchanged, in whole or in part, for the individual Securities represented thereby in definitive registered form, and the form of any legend or legends to be borne by the Global Security in addition to or in lieu of the legend referred to in this Indenture;
(s) the Trustee and any authenticating agents, Paying Agents, transfer agents or registrars;
(t) the terms, if any, of any guarantee of the payment of principal, premium and interest with respect to Securities of the series and any corresponding changes to the provisions of this Indenture as then in effect;
(u) the terms, if any, of the transfer, mortgage, pledge or assignment as security for the Securities of the series of any properties, assets, moneys, proceeds, securities or other collateral, including whether certain provisions of the Trust Indenture Act are applicable and any corresponding changes to provisions of this Indenture as then in effect;
 
(v) any addition to or change in the Events of Default with respect to the Securities of the series and any change in the right of the Trustee or the holders to declare the principal, premium and interest with respect to the Securities due and payable; and
(w) any other terms of the Securities of such series (which terms shall not be inconsistent with the provisions of this Indenture, except as permitted by Section 901(g)).
All Securities of any one series shall be substantially identical except as to denomination and except as may otherwise be provided in or pursuant to the Board Resolution referred to above and (subject to Section 303) set forth, or determined in the manner provided, in the Officers' Certificate referred to above or in any such indenture supplemental hereto. All Securities of any one series need not be issued at the same time and, unless otherwise provided, a series may be reopened for issuances of additional Securities of such series.
If any of the terms of the Securities of any series are established by action taken pursuant to a Board Resolution, a copy of an appropriate record of such action shall be certified by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Company and delivered to the Trustee at or prior to the delivery of the Officers' Certificate setting forth the terms of the series.
Section 302. Denominations.
The Securities of each series shall be issuable in registered form without coupons in such denominations as shall be specified as contemplated by Section 301. In the absence of any such provisions with respect to the Securities of any series, the Securities of such series shall be issuable in denominations of $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof.
Section 303. Execution, Authentication, Delivery and Dating.
Two Officers shall sign the Securities for the Company by manual or facsimile signature. The Company's seal shall be impressed, affixed, imprinted or reproduced on the Securities and may be in facsimile form.
If an Officer whose signature is on a Security no longer holds that office at the time the Trustee authenticates the Security, the Security shall be valid nevertheless.
A Security shall not be valid until an authorized signatory of the Trustee manually signs the certificate of authentication on the Security. The signature shall be conclusive evidence that the Security has been authenticated under this Indenture.
At any time and from time to time after the execution and delivery of this Indenture, the Company may deliver Securities of any series executed by the Company to the Trustee for authentication, together with a Company Order for the authentication and delivery of such Securities, and the Trustee in accordance with the Company Order (which may provide that Securities that are the subject thereof will be authenticated and delivered by the Trustee from
 
time to time upon the telephonic or written order of Persons designated in said Company Order and that such Persons are authorized to determine such terms and conditions of said Securities as are specified in the Company Order) shall authenticate and deliver such Securities. If the form or terms of the Securities of the series have been established in or pursuant to one or more Board Resolutions as permitted by Sections 201 and 301, in authenticating such Securities, and accepting the additional responsibilities under this Indenture in relation to such Securities, the Trustee shall be entitled to receive, and (subject to Section 601) shall be fully protected in relying upon, an Opinion of Counsel stating:
(1) if the form such Securities has been established by or pursuant to a Board Resolution as permitted by Section 201, that such form has been established in conformity with the provisions of this Indenture;
(2) if the terms of such Securities have been established by or pursuant to a Board Resolution as permitted by Section 301, that such terms have been established in conformity with the provisions of this Indenture; and
(3) that such Securities, when authenticated and delivered by the Trustee and issued by the Company in the manner and subject to any conditions specified in such Opinion of Counsel, will constitute valid and legally binding obligations of the Company enforceable in accordance with their terms, subject to bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent transfer, reorganization, moratorium and similar laws of general applicability relating to or affecting creditors' rights and to general equity principles and to such other matters as counsel may specify.
If such form or terms have been so established, the Trustee shall not be required to authenticate such Securities if the issue of such Securities pursuant to this Indenture will affect the Trustee's own rights, duties or immunities under the Securities and this Indenture or otherwise in a manner which is not reasonably acceptable to the Trustee.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 301 and of the preceding paragraph, if all Securities of a series are not to be originally issued at one time, it shall not be necessary to deliver the Officers' Certificate otherwise required pursuant to Section 301 or the Company Order and Opinion of Counsel otherwise required pursuant to such preceding paragraph at or prior to the time authentication of each Security of such series if such documents are delivered at or prior to the authentication upon original issuance of the first Security of such series to be issued and contemplate issuance of all Securities of such series.
Each Security shall be dated the date of its authentication.
No Security shall be entitled to any benefit under this Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose unless there appears on such Security a certificate of authentication substantially in the form provided for herein executed by the Trustee by manual signature, and such certificate upon any Security shall be conclusive evidence, and the only evidence, that such Security has been duly authenticated and delivered hereunder. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any Security shall have been authenticated and delivered hereunder but never issued and sold by the Company, and the Company shall deliver such Security to the Trustee for cancellation as
 
provided in Section 309, for all purposes of this Indenture such Security shall be deemed never to have been authenticated and delivered hereunder and shall never be entitled to the benefits of this Indenture.
The Trustee may appoint an authenticating agent reasonably acceptable to the Company to authenticate the Securities of a series. Unless limited by the terms of such appointment, an authenticating agent may authenticate Securities of a series whenever the Trustee may do so. Each reference in this Indenture to authentication by the Trustee includes authentication by such agent. An authenticating agent has the same rights as any Security Registrar, Paying Agent or agent for service of notices and demands.
Section 304. Temporary Securities.
Until definitive Securities of any series are ready for delivery, the Company may prepare and the Trustee shall authenticate temporary Securities. Temporary Securities shall be substantially in the form of definitive Securities but may have variations that the Company considers appropriate for temporary Securities.
Without unreasonable delay, the Company shall prepare and the Trustee shall authenticate definitive Securities and deliver them in exchange for temporary Securities. After the preparation of definitive Securities of such series, the temporary Securities of such series shall be exchangeable for definitive Securities of such series upon surrender of the temporary Securities of such series at the office or agency of the Company maintained pursuant to Section 1002 in a Place of Payment for that series for the purpose of exchanges of Securities of such series, without charge to the Holder thereof. Upon surrender for cancellation of any one or more temporary Securities of any series the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver in exchange therefor one or more definitive Securities of the same series, of any authorized denominations and of a like aggregate principal amount and tenor. Until so exchanged the temporary Securities of any series shall in all respects be entitled to the same benefits under this Indenture as definitive Securities of such series and tenor.
Section 305. Registration, Registration of Transfer and Exchange; Paying Agent.
The Company shall maintain an office or agency where Securities may be presented for registration of transfer or for exchange (the "Security Registrar") and an office or agency where Securities may be presented for payment (the "Paying Agent"). The Security Registrar shall keep a register of the Securities and of their transfer and exchange (the register maintained in such office and in any office or agency of the Company in a Place of Payment being herein sometimes collectively referred to as the "Security Register"). The Company may have one or more co-registrars and one or more additional paying agents. The term "Paying Agent" includes any additional paying agent.
The Company shall enter into an appropriate agency agreement with any Security Registrar, Paying Agent or co-registrar not a party to this Indenture, which shall incorporate the terms of the Trust Indenture Act. The agreement shall implement the provisions of this Indenture that relate to such agent. The Company shall notify the Trustee of the name and address of any such agent. If the Company fails to maintain a Security Registrar or Paying
 
Agent, the Trustee shall act as such and shall be entitled to appropriate compensation therefor pursuant to Section 607. The Company or any wholly owned Subsidiary incorporated or organized within The United States of America may act as Paying Agent, Security Registrar, co-registrar or transfer agent.
The Company initially appoints the Trustee as Security Registrar and Paying Agent in connection with the Securities.
Upon surrender for registration of transfer of any Security of any series at the office or agency maintained pursuant to Section 1002 for such purpose in a Place of Payment for that series, the Company shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, in the name of the designated transferee or transferees, one or more new Securities of the same series, of any authorized denominations and of a like aggregate principal amount and tenor.
At the option of the Holder, Securities of any series may be exchanged for other Securities of the same series of any authorized denominations and of a like aggregate principal amount and tenor, upon surrender of the Securities to be exchanged at such office or agency. Whenever any Securities are so surrendered for exchange, the Company shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, the Securities which the Holder making the exchange is entitled to receive.
All Securities issued upon any registration of transfer or exchange of Securities shall be the valid obligations of the Company, evidencing the same debt, and entitled to the same benefits under this Indenture, as the Securities surrendered upon such registration of transfer or exchange.
Every Security presented or surrendered for registration of transfer or for exchange shall (if so required by the Company or the Trustee) be duly endorsed, or be accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Security Registrar duly executed, by the Holder thereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing.
No service charge shall be made for any registration of transfer or exchange of Securities, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge that may be imposed in connection with any registration of transfer or exchange of Securities, other than exchanges pursuant to Section 304, 906, 1107 or 1403 not involving any transfer.
In the event of any redemption, the Company shall not be required to (a) issue, register the transfer of or exchange Securities of any series during a period beginning at the opening of business 15 days before the day of the mailing of a notice of redemption of Securities of that series selected for redemption under Section 1103 and ending at the close of business on the day of such mailing, or (b) to register the transfer of or exchange any Security, or portion thereof called for redemption, except the unredeemed portion of any Security being redeemed in part.
Notwithstanding any other provision in this Indenture, any Global Security shall be exchangeable pursuant to this Section 305 for Securities registered in the names of Persons
 
other than the Depositary for such Global Security or its nominee only when (a) such Depositary notifies the Company and the Trustee in writing that it is unwilling or unable to continue as Depositary for such Global Security or if at any time such Depositary ceases to be a clearing agency registered under the Exchange Act, and a successor Depositary is not appointed by the Company within 90 days, (b) the Company in its sole discretion determines that Securities shall no longer be represented by a Global Security and executes and delivers to the Trustee a Company Order that such Global Security shall be so exchangeable, (c) there shall have occurred and be continuing an Event of Default or an event which, with the giving of notice or lapse of time, or both, would constitute an Event of Default with respect to the Securities represented by such Global Security or (d) there shall exist such other circumstances, if any, as shall be specified for this purpose as contemplated by Section 301. Any Global Security that is exchangeable pursuant to clause (a), (b), (c) or (d) above, shall be surrendered by the Depositary, or such other depositary as shall be specified in the Company Order with respect thereto, to the Trustee, as the agent for such purpose, to be exchanged, in whole or in part, for definitive Securities without charge, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, in exchange for each portion of such permanent Global Security, an equal aggregate principal amount of definitive Securities, executed by the Company, of the same series of authorized denominations and of like tenor as the portion of such Global Security to be exchanged, which shall be in the form of registered Securities as provided in the Company Order.
Every Security authenticated and delivered upon registration of transfer of, or in exchange for or in lieu of, a Global Security other than pursuant to clauses (a), (b), (c) or (d) in the preceding paragraph, whether pursuant to this Section, Sections 304, 306, 906, 1107 or 1403 or otherwise, shall be authenticated and delivered in the form of, and shall be, a Global Security.
Section 306. Replacement Securities.
If a mutilated Security is surrendered to the Security Registrar or if the Holder of a Security claims that the Security has been lost, destroyed or wrongfully taken, the Company shall issue and the Trustee shall authenticate a replacement Security of the same series if the requirements of Section 8-405 of the Uniform Commercial Code are met and the Holder satisfies any other reasonable requirements of the Trustee. If required by the Trustee or the Company, such Holder shall furnish an indemnity bond sufficient in the judgment of the Company and the Trustee to protect the Company, the Trustee, the Paying Agent, the Security Registrar and any co-registrar from any loss which any of them may suffer if a Security is replaced. The Company and the Trustee may charge the Holder for their expenses in replacing a Security.
Every new Security of any series issued pursuant to this Section in lieu of any destroyed, lost or wrongfully taken Security shall constitute an original additional contractual obligation of the Company, whether or not the destroyed, lost or wrongfully taken Security shall be at any time enforceable by anyone, and shall be entitled to all the benefits of this Indenture equally and proportionally with any and all other Securities of that series duly issued hereunder.
In case any such mutilated, lost, destroyed or wrongfully taken Security has become or is about to become due and payable, the Company in its discretion may, instead of issuing a new Security, pay such Security.
 
The provisions of this Section are exclusive and shall preclude (to the extent lawful) all other rights and remedies with respect to the replacement or payment of mutilated, destroyed, lost or wrongfully taken Securities.
Section 307. Payment of Interest; Interest Rights Preserved.
Except as otherwise provided as contemplated by Section 301 with respect to any series of Securities, interest on any Security which is payable, and is punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date shall be paid to the Person in whose name that Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest.
In the case of Securities represented by a Global Security registered in the name of or held by a Depositary or its nominee, unless otherwise specified by Section 301, payment of principal, premium, if any, and interest, if any, will be made to the Depositary or its nominee, as the case may be, as the registered owner or Holder of such Global Security. None of the Company, the Trustee, any Paying Agent, any Authenticating Agent nor the Security Registrar for such Securities will have any responsibility or liability for any aspect of the records relating to or payments made on account of a beneficial ownership interest in a Global Security or for maintaining, supervising or reviewing any records relating to such beneficial ownership interests.
Any interest on any Security of any series which is payable, but is not punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date (herein called "Defaulted Interest") shall forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on the relevant Regular Record Date by virtue of having been such Holder, and such Defaulted Interest may be paid by the Company, at its election in each case, as provided in Clause (1) or (2) below:
(1) The Company may elect to make payment of any Defaulted Interest to the Persons in whose names the Securities of such series (or their respective Predecessor Securities) are registered at the close of business on a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest, which shall be fixed in the following manner. The Company shall notify the Trustee in writing of the amount of Defaulted Interest proposed to be paid on each Security of such series and the date of the proposed payment, and at the same time the Company shall deposit with the Trustee an amount of money equal to the aggregate amount proposed to be paid in respect of such Defaulted Interest or shall make arrangements satisfactory to the Trustee for such deposit prior to the date of the proposed payment, such money when deposited to be held in trust for the benefit of the Persons entitled to such Defaulted Interest as in this Clause provided. Thereupon the Trustee shall fix a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest which shall be not more than 15 days and not less than 10 days prior to the date of the proposed payment and not less than 10 days after the receipt by the Trustee of the notice of the proposed payment. The Trustee shall promptly notify the Company of such Special Record Date and, in the name and at the expense of the Company, shall cause notice of the proposed payment of such Defaulted Interest and the Special Record Date therefor to be mailed, first-class postage prepaid, to each Holder of Securities of such series at his address as it appears in the Security Register, not less than 10 days prior to such Special Record Date. Notice of the proposed payment of such Defaulted Interest and the Special
 
Record Date therefor having been so mailed, such Defaulted Interest shall be paid to the Persons in whose names the Securities of such series (or their respective Predecessor Securities) are registered at the close of business on such Special Record Date and shall no longer be payable pursuant to the following Clause (2).
(2) The Company may make payment of any Defaulted Interest on the Securities of any series in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which such Securities may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, if, after notice is given by the Company to the Trustee of the proposed payment pursuant to this Clause, such manner of payment shall be deemed practicable by the Trustee.
At the option of the Company, interest on Securities of any series that bear interest may be paid by mailing a check to the address of the Person entitled thereto as such address shall appear in the Security Register, except as otherwise provided pursuant to Section 301.
Subject to the foregoing provisions of this Section, each Security delivered under this Indenture upon registration of transfer of or in exchange for or in lieu of any other Security shall carry the rights to interest accrued and unpaid, and to accrue, which were carried by such other Security.
Section 308. Persons Deemed Owners.
Prior to due presentment of a Security for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name such Security is registered as the owner of such Security for the purpose of receiving payment of principal of and any premium and (except as otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 301(e) and subject to Section 307) any interest on such Security and for all other purposes whatsoever, whether or not such Security be overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any agent of the Company or the Trustee shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
In the case of a Global Security, so long as the Depositary for such Global Security, or its nominee, is the registered owner of such Global Security, such Depositary or such nominee, as the case may be, will be considered the sole owner or Holder of the Securities represented by such Global Security for all purposes under this Indenture. Except as provided in Section 305, owners of beneficial interests in a Global Security will not be entitled to have Securities that are represented by such Global Security registered in their names, will not receive or be entitled to receive physical delivery of such Securities in definitive form and will not be considered the owners or Holders thereof under this Indenture.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, with respect to any Global Security, nothing herein shall (a) prevent the Company, the Trustee, or any agent of the Company or the Trustee, from giving effect to any written certification, proxy or other authorization furnished by a Depositary or (b) impair, as between a Depositary and holders of beneficial interests in any Global Security, the operation of customary practices governing the exercise of the rights of the Depositary as Holder of such Global Security.
 
None of the Company, the Trustee, any Paying Agent or the Security Registrar will have any responsibility or liability for any aspect of the records relating to or payments made on account of beneficial ownership interests of a Security issued in global form or for maintaining, supervising or reviewing any records relating to such beneficial ownership interests.
Section 309. Cancellation.
The Company at any time may deliver Securities to the Trustee for cancellation. The Registrar and the Paying Agent shall forward to the Trustee any Securities surrendered to them for payment, redemption, registration of transfer or exchange. All Securities surrendered for payment, redemption, registration of transfer or exchange or for credit against any sinking fund payment shall, if surrendered to any Person other than the Trustee, be delivered to the Trustee and shall be promptly canceled by it. The Trustee and no one else shall cancel and destroy (subject to the record retention requirements of the Exchange Act) all Securities surrendered for payment, redemption, registration of transfer, exchange or cancellation and deliver a certificate of such destruction to the Company unless the Company directs the Trustee to deliver canceled Securities to the Company. The Company may not issue new Securities to replace Securities it has redeemed, paid or delivered to the Trustee for cancellation.
Section 310. Computation of Interest.
Except as otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 301 for Securities of any series, interest on the Securities of each series shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months.
Section 311. Wire Transfers.
Notwithstanding any other provision to the contrary in this Indenture, the Company may make any payment of moneys required to be deposited with the Trustee on account of principal of, or premium, if any, or interest on, the Securities (whether pursuant to optional or mandatory redemption payments, interest payments or otherwise) by wire transfer in immediately available funds to an account designated by the Trustee on or before the date and time such moneys are to be paid to the Holders of the Securities in accordance with the terms hereof.
Section 312. CUSIP Numbers.
The Company in issuing the Securities may use "CUSIP" numbers, ISINs and "Common Code" numbers (in each case if then generally in use) and, if so, the Trustee shall use "CUSIP" numbers, ISINs and "Common Code" numbers in notices of redemption as a convenience to Holders; , , that any such notice may state that no representation is made as to the correctness of such numbers either as printed on the Securities or as contained in any notice of a redemption and that reliance may be placed only on the other identification numbers printed on the Securities, and any such redemption shall not be affected by any defect in or omission of such numbers. The Company shall advise the Trustee in writing of any change in any "CUSIP" numbers, ISINs or "Common Code" numbers applicable to the Securities.
provided
however
 
Section 401. Satisfaction and Discharge of Indenture.
This Indenture shall upon Company Request cease to be of further effect (except as to any surviving rights of registration of transfer or exchange of Securities herein expressly provided for), and the Trustee, at the expense of the Company, shall execute proper instruments acknowledging satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture, when
(1) either
(A) all Securities theretofore authenticated and delivered (other than (i) Securities which have been destroyed, lost or wrongfully taken and which have been replaced or paid as provided in Section 306 and (ii) Securities for whose payment money has theretofore been deposited in trust or segregated and held in trust by the Company and thereafter repaid to the Company or discharged from such trust, as provided in Section 1003) have been delivered to the Trustee for cancellation; or
(B) all such Securities not theretofore delivered to the Trustee for cancellation
(i) have become due and payable; or
(ii) will become due and payable at their Stated Maturity within one year and are not repayable at the option of the Holder prior thereto; or
(iii) are to be called for redemption within one year under arrangements satisfactory to the Trustee for the giving of notice of redemption by the Trustee in the name, and at the expense, of the Company and are not repayable at the option of the Holder prior thereto;
and the Company, in the case of (i), (ii) or (iii) above, has deposited or caused to be deposited with the Trustee as trust funds in trust for the purpose, lawful money of the United States or U.S. Government Obligations which through the payment of interest and principal in respect thereof in accordance with their terms will provide lawful money not later than the due dates of principal (and premium, if any) or interest, or any combination thereof, in an amount sufficient to pay and discharge the entire indebtedness on such Securities not theretofore delivered to the Trustee for cancellation, for principal and any premium and interest to the date of such deposit (in the case of Securities which have become due and payable) or to the Stated Maturity or Redemption Date, as the case may be;
 
(2) the Company has paid or caused to be paid all other sums payable hereunder by the Company; and
(3) the Company has delivered to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel, each stating that all conditions precedent herein provided for relating to the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture have been complied with.
In the event there are Outstanding Securities of two or more series hereunder, the Trustee shall be required to execute an instrument prepared by the Company acknowledging satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture only if requested to do so with respect to the Securities of all series to which it is Trustee and if the other conditions thereto are met. In the event there are two or more Trustees hereunder, then the effectiveness of any such instrument shall be conditioned upon receipt of such instruments from all Trustees hereunder.
Notwithstanding the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture, the obligations of the Company to the Trustee under Section 607, the obligations of the Trustee to any Authenticating Agent under Section 614 and, if money shall have been deposited with the Trustee pursuant to subclause (B) of Clause (1) of this Section, the obligations of the Trustee under Section 402 and the last paragraph of Section 1003 shall survive.
Section 402. Application of Trust Money.
Subject to the provisions of the last paragraph of Section 1003, all money and U.S. Government Obligations deposited with the Trustee pursuant to Section 401 shall be held in trust and applied by it, in accordance with the provisions of the Securities and this Indenture, to the payment, either directly or through any Paying Agent (including the Company acting as its own Paying Agent) as the Trustee may determine, to the Persons entitled thereto as set forth in the Securities Register, of the principal and any premium and interest for whose payment such money has been deposited with the Trustee.
Section 501. Events of Default.
"Event of Default", wherever used herein with respect to a series of Securities, means any one of the following events (whatever the reason for such Event of Default and whether it shall be voluntary or involuntary or be effected by operation of law or pursuant to any judgment, decree or order of any court or any order, rule or regulation of any administrative or governmental body), except to the extent such event is specifically deleted or modified as contemplated by Section 301(w) for the Securities of that series:
(1) failure to pay the principal of (or any premium on) any Security of that series at its Maturity; or
 
(2) failure to pay any interest upon any Security of that series when it becomes due and payable, and continuance of such default for a period of 30 days; or
(3) failure to deposit any sinking fund payment, when and as due by the terms of a Security of that series; or
(4) with respect to a series of Securities, failure to perform, or the breach of, any other covenant of the Company in this Indenture (other than a covenant a default in whose performance or whose breach is specifically dealt with elsewhere in this Section or which has expressly been included in this Indenture solely for the benefit of a series of Securities other than that series or which has been included in this Indenture but not made applicable to the Securities of such series), and continuance of such default or breach for a period of 90 days after there has been given a written notice specifying such failure or breach and requiring it to be remedied and stating that such notice is a "Notice of Default" hereunder, by registered or certified mail, to the Company by the Trustee or to the Company and the Trustee by the Holders of at least 25% in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of that series; or
(5) the entry by a court having jurisdiction in the premises of (a) a decree or order for relief in respect of the Company in an involuntary case or proceeding under any applicable Federal or State bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or other similar law or (b) a decree or order adjudging the Company a bankrupt or insolvent, or approving as properly filed a petition seeking reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition of or in respect of the Company under any applicable Federal or State law, or appointing a custodian, receiver, liquidator, assignee, trustee, sequestrator or other similar official of the Company or of any substantial part of its properties, or ordering the winding up or liquidation of its affairs, and the continuance of any such decree or order for relief or any such other decree or order unstayed and in effect for a period of 90 consecutive days; or
(6) the commencement by the Company of a voluntary case or proceeding under any applicable Federal or State bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or other similar law or of any other case or proceeding to be adjudicated a bankrupt or insolvent, or the consent by the Company to the entry of a decree or order for relief in respect of the Company in an involuntary case or proceeding under any applicable Federal or State bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or other similar law or to the commencement of any bankruptcy or insolvency case or proceeding against the Company, or the filing by the Company of a petition or answer or consent seeking reorganization or relief under any applicable Federal or State law, or the consent by the Company to the filing of such petition or to the appointment of or taking possession by a custodian, receiver, liquidator, assignee, trustee, sequestrator or other similar official of the Company or of any substantial part of its properties, or the making by the Company of an assignment for the benefit of creditors, or the admission by the Company in writing its inability to pay its debts generally as they become due, or the taking of corporate action by the Company in furtherance of any such action; or
(7) the occurrence of any other Event of Default established as contemplated by Section 301 with respect to Securities of that series.
 
Upon receipt by the Trustee of any Notice of Default pursuant to this Section with respect to Securities of any series, a record date shall automatically and without any other action by any Person be set for the purpose of determining the Holders of Outstanding Securities of such series entitled to join in such Notice of Default, which record date shall be the close of business on the day the Trustee receives such Notice of Default. Promptly after the establishment of a record date pursuant to the provisions of this Section, the Trustee shall notify the Company and the Holders of Outstanding Securities of such series of the establishment of such record date. The Holders of Outstanding Securities of such series on such record date (or their duly appointed agents), and only such Persons, shall be entitled to join in such Notice of Default, whether or not such Holders remain Holders after such record date; provided that, unless such Notice of Default shall have become effective by virtue of Holders of the requisite principal amount of Outstanding Securities of such series on such record date (or their duly appointed agents) having joined therein on or prior to the 90th day after such record date, such Notice of Default shall automatically and without any action by any Person be canceled and of no further effect. Nothing in this paragraph shall prevent a Holder (or a duly appointed agent thereof) from giving, before or after the expiration of such 90-day period, a Notice of Default contrary to or different from, or, after the expiration of such period, identical to, a Notice of Default that has been canceled pursuant to the proviso to the preceding sentence, in which event a new record date in respect thereof shall be set pursuant to this paragraph.
Section 502. Acceleration of Maturity; Rescission and Annulment.
If an Event of Default with respect to Securities of any series at the time Outstanding occurs and is continuing, then in every such case either the Trustee or the Holders of at least 25% in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of that series may declare the principal amount (or, if the Securities of that series are Original Issue Discount Securities, such portion of the principal amount of such Securities as may be specified in the terms of that series) of all of the Securities of that series to be due and payable immediately, by a notice in writing to the Company (and to the Trustee if given by Holders), and upon any such declaration such principal amount (or specified amount) shall become immediately due and payable.
At any time after such a declaration of acceleration with respect to Securities of any series has been made, but before a judgment or decree for payment of the money due has been obtained by the Trustee, as hereinafter in this Article provided, the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of that series, by written notice to the Company and the Trustee, may rescind and annul such acceleration and its consequences if:
(1) the Company has paid or deposited with the Trustee a sum sufficient to pay
(A) all overdue interest on all Securities of that series,
(B) the principal of (and premium, if any, on) any Securities of that series which have become due otherwise than by such declaration of acceleration and any interest thereon at the rate or rates prescribed therefor in such Securities, to the extent that payment of such interest is lawful,
 
(C) to the extent that payment of such interest is lawful, interest upon overdue interest at the rate or rates prescribed therefor in such Securities, and
(D) all sums paid or advanced by the Trustee hereunder and the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel;
and
(2) all Events of Default with respect to Securities of that series, other than the non-payment of the principal of Securities of that series which have become due solely by such declaration of acceleration, have been cured or waived as provided in Section 513.
No such rescission shall affect any subsequent default or impair any right consequent thereon.
Upon receipt by the Trustee of any declaration of acceleration, or any rescission and annulment of any such declaration, pursuant to this Section with respect to Securities of any series, a record date shall automatically and without any other action by any Person be set for the purpose of determining the Holders of Outstanding Securities of such series entitled to join in such declaration, or rescission or annulment, as the case may be, which record date shall be the close of business on the day the Trustee receives such declaration, or rescission and annulment, as the case may be. Promptly after the establishment of a record date pursuant to the provisions of this Section 502, the Trustee shall notify the Company and the Holders of Outstanding Securities of such series of the establishment of such record date. The Holders of Outstanding Securities of such series on such record date (or their duly appointed agents), and only such Persons, shall be entitled to join in such declaration, or rescission and annulment, as the case may be, whether or not such Holders remain Holders after such record date; provided that, unless such declaration, or rescission and annulment, as the case may be, shall have become effective by virtue of Holders of the requisite principal amount of Outstanding Securities of such series on such record date (or their duly appointed agents) having joined therein on or prior to the 90th day after such record date, such declaration or rescission and annulment, as the case may be, shall automatically and without any action by any Person be canceled and of no further effect. Nothing in this paragraph shall prevent a Holder (or a duly appointed agent thereof) from giving, before or after the expiration of such 90-day period, a declaration of acceleration, or a rescission and annulment of any such declaration, contrary to or different from, or, after the expiration of such period, identical to, a declaration, or rescission and annulment, as the case may be, that has been canceled pursuant to the proviso to the preceding sentence, in which event a new record date in respect thereof shall be set pursuant to this paragraph.
Section 503. Collection of Indebtedness and Suits for Enforcement by Trustee.
The Company covenants that if:
(1) default is made in the payment of any interest on any Security when such interest becomes due and payable and such default continues for a period of 30 days; or
 
(2) default is made in the payment of the principal of (or premium, if any, on) any Security at the Maturity thereof; or
(3) default is made in the payment of any sinking or purchase fund or analogous obligation when the same becomes due by the terms of any Security of any series, and any such default continues for any period of grace provided with respect to any Securities of such series;
the Company will, upon demand of the Trustee, pay to it, for the benefit of the Holder of any such Security (or the Holders of any such series in the case of clause (3) above), the whole amount then due and payable on any such Security (or on the Securities of any such series in the case of clause (3) above) for principal and any premium and interest and, to the extent that payment of such interest shall be legally enforceable, interest on any overdue principal and premium and on any overdue interest, at the rate or rates prescribed therefor by the terms of any such Security (or of Securities of any such series in the case of clause (3) above); and, in addition thereto, such further amount as shall be sufficient to cover the costs and expenses of collection, including the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel.
If the Company fails to pay such amounts forthwith upon such demand, the Trustee, in its own name and as trustee of an express trust, may institute a judicial proceeding for the collection of the sums so due and unpaid, and may prosecute such proceedings to judgment or final decree, and may enforce the same against the Company or any other obligor upon the Securities of such series and collect the money adjudged or decreed to be payable in the manner provided by law out of the property of the Company or any other obligor upon such Securities, wherever situated.
If an Event of Default with respect to Securities of any series occurs and is continuing, the Trustee may in its discretion proceed to protect and enforce its rights and the rights of the Holders of Securities of such series by such appropriate judicial proceedings as the Trustee shall deem most effectual to protect and enforce any such rights, whether for the specific enforcement of any covenant or agreement in this Indenture or in aid of the exercise of any power granted herein, or to enforce any other proper remedy.
Section 504. Trustee May File Proofs of Claim.
In case of any judicial proceeding relative to the Company (or any other obligor upon the Securities), its property or its creditors, the Trustee shall be entitled and empowered, by intervention in such proceeding or otherwise, to take any and all actions authorized under the Trust Indenture Act in order to have claims of the Holders and the Trustee allowed in any such proceeding. In particular, the Trustee shall be authorized to collect and receive any moneys or other property payable or deliverable on any such claims and to distribute the same; and any custodian, receiver, assignee, trustee, liquidator, sequestrator or other similar official in any such judicial proceeding is hereby authorized by each Holder to make such payments to the Trustee and, in the event that the Trustee shall consent to the making of such payments to the Trustee and, in the event that the Trustee shall consent to the making of such payments directly to the Holders, to pay to the Trustee any amount due it for reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel, and any other amounts due the Trustee under Section 607.
 
No provision of this Indenture shall be deemed to authorize the Trustee to authorize or consent to or accept or adopt on behalf of any Holder any plan of reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition affecting the Securities or the rights of any Holder thereof or to authorize the Trustee to vote in respect of the claim of any Holder in any such proceeding.
Section 505. Trustee May Enforce Claims Without Possession of Securities.
All rights of action and claims under this Indenture or the Securities may be prosecuted and enforced by the Trustee without the possession of any of the Securities or the production thereof in any proceeding relating thereto, and any such proceeding instituted by the Trustee shall be brought in its own name as trustee of an express trust, and any recovery of judgment shall, after provision for the payment of the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel, be for the ratable benefit of the Holders of the Securities in respect of which such judgment has been recovered.
Section 506. Application of Money Collected
Any money collected by the Trustee pursuant to this Article shall be applied in the following order, at the date or dates fixed by the Trustee and, in case of the distribution of such money on account of principal or any premium or interest, upon presentation of the Securities and the notation thereon of the payment if only partially paid and upon surrender thereof if fully paid:
FIRST: To the payment of all amounts due the Trustee under Section 607;
SECOND: To the payment of the amounts then due and unpaid for principal of and any premium and interest on the Securities in respect of which or for the benefit of which such money has been collected, ratably, without preference or priority of any kind, according to the amounts due and payable on such Securities for principal and any premium and interest, respectively; and
THIRD: The balance, if any, to the Company or any other Person or Persons entitled thereto.
In any case where Securities are Outstanding and are denominated in more than one currency, or in a composite currency and at least one other currency, and the Trustee is directed to make ratable payments under this Section to Holders of Securities, the Trustee shall calculate the amount of such payments as follows: (i) as of the day the Trustee collects an amount under this Article, the Trustee shall, as to each Holder of a Security to whom an amount is due and payable under this Section which is denominated in a foreign currency or currency units, determine that amount of U.S. Dollars that would be obtained for the amount owing such Holder, using the rate of exchange at which in accordance with normal banking procedures the Trustee could purchase U.S. Dollars in The City of New York with such amount owing, (ii)
 
calculate the sum of all U.S. Dollar amounts determined under (i) and add thereto any amounts due and payable in U.S. Dollars; and (iii) using the individual amounts determined in (i) or any individual amounts due and payable in U.S. Dollars, as the case may be, as a numerator and the sum calculated in (ii) as a denominator, calculate as to each Holder of a Security to whom an amount is owed under this Section the fraction of the amount collected under this Article payable to such Holder. Any expenses incurred by the Trustee in actually converting amounts owing to Holders of Securities denominated in a currency or composite currency other than that in which any amount is collected under this Article shall be likewise (in accordance with this paragraph) borne ratably by all Holders of Securities to whom amounts are payable under this Section.
To the fullest extent allowed under applicable law, if for the purpose of obtaining judgment against the Company in any court it is necessary to convert the sum due in respect of the principal of, or any premium or interest on the Securities of any series (the "Required Currency") into a currency in which judgment will be rendered (the "Judgment Currency"), the rate of exchange used shall be the rate at which in accordance with normal banking procedures the Trustee could purchase in The City of New York the Required Currency with the Judgment Currency on the New York Business Day preceding that on which final judgment is given. The Company shall not be liable for any shortfall nor shall it benefit from any windfall in payments to Holders of Securities under this Section caused by a change in exchange rates between the time the amount of a judgment against it is calculated as above and the time the Trustee converts the Judgment Currency into the Required Currency to make payments under this Section to Holders of Securities, but payment of such judgment shall discharge all amounts owed by the Company on the claim or claims underlying such judgment.
Section 507. Limitation on Suits.
No Holder of any Security of any series shall have any right to institute any proceeding, judicial or otherwise, with respect to this Indenture, or for the appointment of a receiver or trustee, or for any other remedy hereunder, unless:
(1) such Holder has previously given written notice to the Trustee of a continuing Event of Default with respect to the Securities of that series;
(2) the Holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of that series shall have made written request to the Trustee to institute proceedings in respect of such Event of Default in its own name as Trustee hereunder;
(3) such Holder or Holders have offered to the Trustee reasonable indemnity against the costs, expenses and liabilities to be incurred in compliance with such request;
(4) the Trustee for 60 days after receipt of such notice, request and offer of indemnity has failed to institute any such proceeding; and
(5) no direction inconsistent with such written request has been given to the Trustee during such 60-day period by the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of that series;
 
it being understood and intended that no one or more of such Holders shall have any right in any manner whatever by virtue of, or by availing of, any provision of this Indenture to affect, disturb or prejudice the rights of any other of such Holders, or to obtain or to seek to obtain priority or preference over any other of such Holders or to enforce any right under this Indenture, except in the manner herein provided and for the equal and ratable benefit of all of such Holders.
Section 508. Unconditional Right of Holders to Receive Principal, Premium and Interest.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Indenture, the Holder of any Security shall have the right, which is absolute and unconditional, to receive payment of the principal of, premium, if any, and (except as specified as contemplated by Section 301(d) and subject to Section 307) any interest on such Security on the Stated Maturity or Maturities expressed in such Security (or, in the case of redemption, on the Redemption Date) and to institute suit for the enforcement of any such payment, and such rights shall not be impaired without the consent of such Holder.
Section 509. Restoration of Rights and Remedies.
If the Trustee or any Holder has instituted any proceeding to enforce any right or remedy under this Indenture and such proceeding has been discontinued or abandoned for any reason, or has been determined adversely to the Trustee or to such Holder, then and in every such case, subject to any determination in such proceeding, the Company, the Trustee and the Holders shall be restored severally and respectively to their former positions hereunder and thereafter all rights and remedies of the Trustee and the Holders shall continue as though no such proceeding had been instituted.
Section 510. Rights and Remedies Cumulative.
Except as otherwise provided with respect to the replacement or payment of mutilated, destroyed, lost or wrongfully taken Securities in the last paragraph of Section 306, no right or remedy herein conferred upon or reserved to the Trustee or to the Holders is intended to be exclusive of any other right or remedy, and every right and remedy shall, to the extent permitted by law, be cumulative and in addition to every other right and remedy given hereunder or now or hereafter existing at law or in equity or otherwise. The assertion or employment of any right or remedy hereunder, or otherwise, shall not prevent the concurrent assertion or employment of any other appropriate right or remedy.
Section 511. Delay or Omission Not Waiver.
No delay or omission of the Trustee or of any Holder of any Securities to exercise any right or remedy accruing upon any Event of Default shall impair any such right or remedy or constitute a waiver of any such Event of Default or an acquiescence therein. Every right and remedy given by this Article or by law to the Trustee or to the Holders may be exercised from time to time, and as often as may be deemed expedient, by the Trustee or by the Holders, as the case may be.
 
Section 512. Control by Holders.
The Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of any series shall have the right to direct the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for any remedy available to the Trustee, or exercising any trust or power conferred on the Trustee, with respect to the Securities of such series, provided that
(1) such direction shall not be in conflict with any rule of law or with this Indenture,
(2) the Trustee shall not determine (it being understood that the Trustee shall have no obligation to make such determination) that the action so directed would be unjustly prejudicial to Holders of Securities of that series, or any other series, not taking part in such direction, and
(3) the Trustee may take any other action deemed proper by the Trustee which is not inconsistent with such direction.
Upon receipt by the Trustee of any Notice of Default pursuant to this Section with respect to Securities of any series, a record date shall automatically and without any other action by any Person be set for the purpose of determining the Holders of Outstanding Securities of such series entitled to join in such Notice of Default, which record date shall be the close of business on the day the Trustee receives such Notice of Default. Promptly after the establishment of a record date pursuant to the provisions of this Section, the Trustee shall notify the Company and the Holders of Outstanding Securities of such series of the establishment of such record date. The Holders of Outstanding Securities of such series on such record date (or their duly appointed agents), and only such Persons, shall be entitled to join in such Notice of Default, whether or not such Holders remain Holders after such record date; provided that, unless such Notice of Default shall have become effective by virtue of Holders of the requisite principal amount of Outstanding Securities of such series on such record date (or their duly appointed agents) having joined therein on or prior to the 90th day after such record date, such Notice of Default shall automatically and without any action by any Person be canceled and of no further effect. Nothing in this paragraph shall prevent a Holder (or a duly appointed agent thereof) from giving, before or after the expiration of such 90-day period, a Notice of Default contrary to or different from, or, after the expiration of such period, identical to, a Notice of Default that has been canceled pursuant to the proviso to the preceding sentence, in which event a new record date in respect thereof shall be set pursuant to this paragraph.
Section 513. Waiver of Past Defaults.
The Holders of not less than a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of any series may on behalf of the Holders of all the Securities of such series waive any past default hereunder with respect to such series and its consequences, except a default
(1) in the payment of the principal of or any premium or interest on any Security of such series, or
 
(2) in respect of a covenant or provision hereof which under Article Nine cannot be modified or amended without the consent of the Holder of each Outstanding Security of such series affected.
Upon any such waiver, such default shall cease to exist, and any Event of Default arising therefrom shall be deemed to have been cured, for every purpose of this Indenture; but no such waiver shall extend to any subsequent or other default or impair any right consequent thereon.
Section 514. Undertaking for Costs.
In any suit for the enforcement of any right or remedy under this Indenture, or in any suit against the Trustee for any action taken, suffered or omitted by it as Trustee, a court may require any party litigant in such suit to file an undertaking to pay the costs of such suit, and may assess costs against any such party litigant, in the manner and to the extent provided in the Trust Indenture Act; provided that neither this Section nor the Trust Indenture Act shall be deemed to authorize any court to require such an undertaking and that the provisions of this Section shall not apply to any suit instituted by the Trustee, to any suit instituted by any Holder, or group of Holders, holding in the aggregate more than 10% in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of that series or to any suit instituted by any Holder in each case for the enforcement of the payment of the principal of, or premium, if any, or interest on, any Security on or after the due date for such payment.
Section 515. Waiver of Stay or Extension Laws.
The Company covenants (to the extent that it may lawfully do so) that it will not at any time insist upon, or plead, or in any manner whatsoever claim or take the benefit or advantage of, any stay or extension law wherever enacted, now or at any time hereafter in force, which may affect the covenants or the performance of this Indenture; and the Company (to the extent that it may lawfully do so) hereby expressly waives all benefit or advantage of any such law and covenants that it will not hinder, delay or impede the execution of any power herein granted to the Trustee, but will suffer and permit the execution of every such power as though no such law had been enacted.
Section 601. Certain Duties and Responsibilities.
The duties and responsibilities of the Trustee shall be as provided by the Trust Indenture Act. Notwithstanding the foregoing (but subject to Section 107), no provision of this Indenture shall require the Trustee to expend or risk its own funds or otherwise incur any financial liability in the performance of any of its duties hereunder, or in the exercise of any of its rights or powers, if it shall have reasonable grounds for believing that repayment of such funds or adequate indemnity against such risk or liability is not reasonably assured to it. Whether or not therein expressly so provided, every provision of this Indenture relating to the conduct or affecting the liability of or affording protection to the Trustee shall be subject to the provisions of this Section.
 
Section 602. Notice of Defaults.
If a default occurs hereunder with respect to Securities of any series, the Trustee shall give the Holders of Securities of such series notice of such default known to the Trustee as and to the extent provided by the Trust Indenture Act and in the manner provided in Section 106; provided, however, that in the case of any default of the character specified in Section 501(4) with respect to Securities of such series, no such notice to Holders shall be given until at least 30 days after the occurrence thereof. Except in the case of a Default in the payment of principal of or interest on any Security (including payments pursuant to the mandatory redemption provisions of such Security, if any), the Trustee may withhold the notice if and so long as a committee of its Trust Officers in good faith determines that withholding the notice is not opposed to the interests of the Security Holders. For the purpose of this Section, the term "default" means any event which is, or after notice or lapse of time or both would become, an Event of Default with respect to Securities of such series.
Section 603. Certain Rights of Trustee.
Subject to the provisions of Section 601:
(1) in the absence of bad faith on the part of the Trustee, the Trustee may conclusively rely and shall be protected in acting or refraining from acting upon any resolution, certificate, statement, instrument, opinion, report, notice, request, direction, consent, order, bond, debenture, note, other evidence of indebtedness or other paper or document believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed or presented by the proper party or parties;
(2) any request or direction of the Company mentioned herein shall be sufficiently evidenced by a Company Request or Company Order and any resolution of the Board of Directors may be sufficiently evidenced by a Board Resolution;
(3) whenever in the administration of this Indenture the Trustee shall deem it desirable that a matter be proved or established prior to taking, suffering or omitting any action hereunder, the Trustee (unless other evidence be herein specifically prescribed) shall be entitled to receive and may, in the absence of bad faith on its part, conclusively rely upon an Officers' Certificate;
(4) the Trustee may consult with counsel of its selection and the advice of such counsel or any Opinion of Counsel shall be full and complete authorization and protection in respect of any action taken, suffered or omitted by it hereunder in good faith and in reliance thereon;
(5) the Trustee shall be under no obligation to exercise any of the rights or powers vested in it by this Indenture at the request or direction of any of the Holders pursuant to this Indenture (including, without limitation, under Section 512), unless such
 
Holders shall have offered to the Trustee reasonable security or indemnity against the costs, expenses and liabilities which might be incurred by it in compliance with such request or direction;
(6) the Trustee shall not be bound to make any investigation into the facts or matters stated in any resolution, certificate, statement, instrument, opinion, report, notice, request, direction, consent, order, bond, debenture, note, other evidence of indebtedness or other paper or document, unless requested in writing to do so by the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of Outstanding Securities of a series affected by such matter, and if so requested, the Trustee shall be entitled to examine the books, records and premises of the Company, personally or by agent or attorney at the sole cost of the Company and shall incur no liability or additional liability of any kind by reason of such inquiry or investigation;
(7) the Trustee may execute any of the trusts or powers hereunder or perform any duties hereunder either directly or by or through agents or attorneys and the Trustee shall not be responsible for any misconduct or negligence on the part of any agent or attorney appointed with due care by it hereunder and shall not be responsible for the supervision of officers and employees of such agents or attorneys;
(8) the Trustee may request that the Company deliver an Officers' Certificate setting forth the names of individuals and/or titles of officers authorized at such time to take specified actions pursuant to this Indenture which Officers' Certificate may be signed by any person authorized to sign an Officers' Certificate, including any person specified as so authorized in any such certificate previously delivered and not superseded;
(9) the Trustee shall not be liable for any action taken, suffered or omitted to be taken by it in good faith and reasonably believed by it to be authorized or within the discretion or rights or powers conferred upon it by this Indenture;
(10) the Trustee shall not be deemed to have notice of any default or Event of Default unless a Trust Officer of the Trustee has actual knowledge thereof or unless written notice of any event which is in fact such a default is received by the Trustee at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee, and such notice references the Securities and this Indenture; and
(11) the rights, privileges, protections, immunities and benefits given to the Trustee, including its rights to be indemnified, are extended to, and shall be enforceable by, the Trustee in each of its capacities hereunder.
Section 604. Not Responsible for Recitals or Issuance of Securities.
The recitals contained herein and in the Securities, except the Trustee's certificates of authentication, shall be taken as the statements of the Company, and the Trustee or any Authenticating Agent assumes no responsibility for their correctness. The Trustee makes no representations as to the validity or sufficiency of this Indenture or of the Securities, if any, of any series, except that the Trustee represents that it is duly authorized to execute and deliver this
 
Indenture, authenticate the Securities and perform its obligations hereunder, and that the statements made by it or to be made by it in a Statement of Eligibility and Qualification on Form T-1 supplied to the Company are true and accurate. The Trustee or any Authenticating Agent shall not be accountable for the use or application by the Company of Securities or the proceeds thereof.
Section 605. May Hold Securities.
The Trustee, any Authenticating Agent, any Paying Agent, any Security Registrar or any other agent of the Company, in its individual or any other capacity, may become the owner or pledgee of Securities and, subject to Sections 608 and 613, may otherwise deal with the Company with the same rights it would have if it were not Trustee, Authenticating Agent, Paying Agent, Security Registrar or such other agent.
Section 606. Money Held in Trust.
Subject to the provisions of Section 1305(c) and the last paragraph of Section 1003, all moneys received by the Trustee shall, until used or applied as herein provided, be held in trust for the purposes for which they were received, but need not be segregated from other funds except to the extent required by law. The Trustee shall be under no liability for investment of or interest on any money received by it hereunder except as otherwise agreed in writing with the Company. Except for amounts deposited pursuant to Article Thirteen, so long as no Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, all interest allowed on any such moneys shall be paid from time to time to the Company upon a Company Order.
Section 607. Compensation and Reimbursement.
The Company agrees:
(1) to pay to the Trustee from time to time reasonable compensation for all services rendered by it hereunder (which compensation shall not be limited by any provision of law in regard to the compensation of a trustee of an express trust);
(2) except as otherwise expressly provided herein, to reimburse the Trustee upon its request for all reasonable expenses, disbursements and advances incurred or made by the Trustee in accordance with any provision of this Indenture (including the reasonable compensation and the expenses and disbursements of its agents and counsel), except to the extent any such expense, disbursement or advance may be attributable to its negligence or bad faith; and
(3) to indemnify the Trustee and its officers, directors, agents and employees for, and to hold it harmless against, any loss, liability or expense, arising out of or in connection with the acceptance or administration of the trust or trusts hereunder or the performance of its duties hereunder, including the costs and expenses of defending itself against any claim or liability in connection with the exercise or performance of any of its powers or duties hereunder, except to the extent any such loss, liability or expense may be attributable to its negligence, willful misconduct or bad faith.
 
As security for the performance of the obligations of the Company under this Section the Trustee shall have a lien prior to the Securities upon all property and funds held or collected by the Trustee as such, except funds held in trust for payment of principal of (and premium, if any) or interest, if any, on particular Securities.
"Trustee", for purposes of this Section, includes any predecessor Trustee, provided that the negligence, willful misconduct or bad faith of any Trustee shall not affect the rights under this Section of any other Trustee.
Section 608. Disqualification; Conflicting Interests.
If the Trustee has or shall acquire a conflicting interest within the meaning of the Trust Indenture Act, the Trustee shall either eliminate such interest within 90 days, apply to the Commission for permission to continue or resign, to the extent and in the manner provided by, and subject to the provisions of, the Trust Indenture Act and this Indenture, and the Company shall take prompt action to have a successor Trustee appointed in the manner provided herein. For purposes of Section 310(b)(1) of the Trust Indenture Act, no Trustee hereunder will be deemed to have a conflicting interest solely by reason of being Trustee in respect of more than one series of Securities.
Section 609. Corporate Trustee Required; Eligibility.
There shall at all times be a Trustee hereunder with respect to the Securities of each series, which shall be a Person that is eligible pursuant to the Trust Indenture Act to act as such, has a combined capital and surplus of at least $50,000,000, and be subject to supervision or examination by Federal or State authority. If such Person publishes reports of condition at least annually, pursuant to law or to the requirements of said supervising or examining authority, then, for the purposes of this Section, the combined capital and surplus of such Person shall be deemed to be its combined capital and surplus as set forth in its most recent report of condition so published. If at any time the Trustee shall cease to be eligible in accordance with the provisions of this Section, it shall resign immediately in the manner and with the effect hereinafter specified in this Article. No obligor upon the Securities of a particular series or Person directly or indirectly controlling, controlled by or under common control with such obligor shall serve as Trustee upon the Securities of such series.
Section 610. Resignation and Removal; Appointment of Successor.
(a) No resignation or removal of the Trustee and no appointment of a successor Trustee pursuant to this Article shall become effective until the acceptance of appointment by the successor Trustee in accordance with the applicable requirements of Section 611.
(b) The Trustee may resign at any time with respect to the Securities of one or more series by giving written notice thereof to the Company. If the instrument of acceptance by a successor Trustee required by Section 611 shall not have been delivered to the Trustee within 30 days after the giving of such notice of resignation, the resigning Trustee may petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of such series.
 
(c) The Trustee may be removed at any time with respect to the Securities of any series by Act of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such series, delivered to the Trustee and to the Company.
(d) If at any time:
(1) the Trustee shall fail to comply with Section 608 after written request therefor by the Company or by any Holder who has been a bona fide Holder of a Security for at least six months, or
(2) the Trustee shall cease to be eligible under Section 609 and shall fail to resign after written request therefor by the Company or by any such Holder, or
(3) the Trustee shall become incapable of acting or shall be adjudged a bankrupt or insolvent or a receiver of the Trustee or of its property shall be appointed or any public officer shall take charge or control of the Trustee or of its property or affairs for the purpose of rehabilitation, conservation or liquidation,
then, in any such case, (i) the Company by a Board Resolution may remove the Trustee with respect to all Securities, or (ii) subject to Section 514, any Holder who has been a bona fide Holder of a Security for at least six months may, on behalf of himself and all others similarly situated, petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the removal of the Trustee with respect to all Securities and the appointment of a successor Trustee or Trustees.
(e) If the Trustee shall resign, be removed or become incapable of acting, or if a vacancy shall occur in the office of Trustee for any cause, with respect to the Securities of one or more series, the Company, by a Board Resolution, shall promptly appoint a successor Trustee or Trustees with respect to the Securities of that or those series (it being understood that any such successor Trustee may be appointed with respect to the Securities of one or more or all of such series and that at any time there shall be only one Trustee with respect to the Securities of any particular series) and shall comply with the applicable requirements of Section 611. If, within six months after such resignation, removal or incapability, or the occurrence of such vacancy, a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of any series shall be appointed by Act of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such series delivered to the Company and the retiring Trustee, the successor Trustee so appointed shall, forthwith upon its acceptance of such appointment in accordance with the applicable requirements of Section 611, become the successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of such series and to that extent supersede the successor Trustee appointed by the Company. If no successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of any series shall have been so appointed by the Company or the Holders and accepted appointment in the manner required by Section 611, any Holder who has been a bona fide Holder of a Security of such series for at least six months may, on behalf of himself and all others similarly situated, petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of such series.
 
(f) The Company shall give notice of each resignation and each removal of the Trustee with respect to Securities of any series and each appointment of a successor Trustee with respect to Securities of any series to all Holders of Securities of such series in the manner provided in Section 106. Each notice shall include the name of the successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of such series and the address of its Corporate Trust Office.
Section 611. Acceptance of Appointment by Successor.
(a) In case of the appointment hereunder of a successor Trustee with respect to all Securities, every such successor Trustee so appointed shall execute, acknowledge and deliver to the Company and to the retiring Trustee an instrument accepting such appointment, and thereupon the resignation or removal of the retiring Trustee shall become effective and such successor Trustee, without any further act, deed or conveyance, shall become vested with all the rights, powers, trusts and duties of the retiring Trustee; but, on the request of the Company or the successor Trustee, such retiring Trustee shall, upon payment of its charges, execute and deliver an instrument transferring to such successor Trustee all the rights, powers and trusts of the retiring Trustee and shall duly assign, transfer and deliver to such successor Trustee all property and money held by such retiring Trustee hereunder.
(b) In case of the appointment hereunder of a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of one or more (but not all) series, the Company, the retiring Trustee and each successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of one or more series shall execute and deliver an indenture supplemental hereto wherein each successor Trustee shall accept such appointment and which (i) shall contain such provisions as shall be necessary or desirable to transfer and confirm to, and to vest in, each successor Trustee all the rights, powers, trusts and duties of the retiring Trustee with respect to the Securities of that or those series to which the appointment of such successor Trustee relates, (ii) if the retiring Trustee is not retiring with respect to all Securities, shall contain such provisions as shall be deemed necessary or desirable to confirm that all the rights, powers, trusts and duties of the retiring Trustee with respect to the Securities of that or those series as to which the retiring Trustee is not retiring shall continue to be vested in the retiring Trustee, and (iii) shall add to or change any of the provisions of this Indenture as shall be necessary to provide for or facilitate the administration of the trusts hereunder by more than one Trustee, it being understood that nothing herein or in such supplemental indenture shall constitute such Trustees co-trustees of the same trust and that each such Trustee shall be trustee of a trust or trusts hereunder separate and apart from any trust or trusts hereunder administered by any other such Trustee; and upon the execution and delivery of such supplemental indenture the resignation or removal of the retiring Trustee shall become effective to the extent provided therein and each such successor Trustee, without any further act, deed or conveyance, shall become vested with all the rights, powers, trusts and duties of the retiring Trustee with respect to the Securities of that or those series to which the appointment of such successor Trustee relates; but, on request of the Company or any successor Trustee, such retiring Trustee shall duly assign, transfer and deliver to such successor Trustee all property and money held by such retiring Trustee hereunder with respect to the Securities of that or those series to which the appointment of such successor Trustee relates.
(c) Upon request of any such successor Trustee, the Company shall execute any and all instruments for more fully and certainly vesting in and confirming to such successor Trustee all such rights, powers and trusts referred to in paragraph (a) or (b) of this Section, as the case may be.
 
(d) No successor Trustee shall accept its appointment unless at the time of such acceptance such successor Trustee shall be qualified and eligible under this Article.
Section 612. Merger, Conversion, Consolidation or Succession to Business.
Any corporation into which the Trustee may be merged or converted or with which it may be consolidated, or any corporation resulting from any merger, conversion or consolidation to which the Trustee shall be a party, or any corporation succeeding to all or substantially all the corporate trust business of the Trustee, shall be the successor of the Trustee hereunder, provided such corporation shall be otherwise qualified and eligible under this Article, without the execution or filing of any paper or any further act on the part of any of the parties hereto. In case any Securities shall have been authenticated, but not delivered, by the Trustee then in office, any successor by merger, conversion or consolidation to such authenticating Trustee may adopt such authentication and deliver the Securities so authenticated with the same effect as if such successor Trustee had itself authenticated such Securities. In the event any Securities shall not have been authenticated by such predecessor Trustee, any such successor Trustee may authenticate and deliver such Securities, in either its own name or that of its predecessor Trustee, with the full force and effect which this Indenture provides for the certificate of authentication of the Trustee.
Section 613. Preferential Collection of Claims Against Company.
The Trustee shall comply with Section 311(a) of the Trust Indenture Act, excluding any creditor relationship listed in Section 311(b) of the Trust Indenture Act. A Trustee who has resigned or been removed shall be subject to Section 311(a) of the Trust Indenture Act to the extent indicated therein.
Section 614. Appointment of Authenticating Agent.
The Trustee may appoint an Authenticating Agent or Agents with respect to one or more series of Securities which shall be authorized to act on behalf of the Trustee to authenticate Securities of such series issued upon original issue and upon exchange, registration of transfer or partial redemption thereof or pursuant to Section 306, and Securities so authenticated shall be entitled to the benefits of this Indenture and shall be valid and obligatory for all purposes as if authenticated by the Trustee hereunder. Wherever reference is made in this Indenture to the authentication and delivery of Securities by the Trustee or the Trustee's certificate of authentication, such reference shall be deemed to include authentication and delivery on behalf of the Trustee by an Authenticating Agent and a certificate of authentication executed on behalf of the Trustee by an Authenticating Agent. Each Authenticating Agent shall be acceptable to the Company and shall at all times be a corporation organized and doing business under the laws of the United States of America, any State thereof or the District of Columbia, authorized under such laws to act as Authenticating Agent, having a combined capital and surplus of not less than $50,000,000 and subject to supervision or examination by Federal or State authority. If such Authenticating Agent publishes reports of condition at least annually,
 
pursuant to law or to the requirements of said supervising or examining authority, then, for the purposes of this Section, the combined capital and surplus of such Authenticating Agent shall be deemed to be its combined capital and surplus as set forth in its most recent report of condition so published. If at any time an Authenticating Agent shall cease to be eligible in accordance with the provisions of this Section, such Authenticating Agent shall resign immediately in the manner and with the effect specified in this Section.
Any corporation into which an Authenticating Agent may be merged or converted or with which it may be consolidated, or any corporation resulting from any merger, conversion or consolidation to which such Authenticating Agent shall be a party, or any corporation succeeding to the corporate agency or corporate trust business of an Authenticating Agent, shall continue to be an Authenticating Agent, provided such corporation shall be otherwise eligible under this Section, without the execution or filing of any paper or any further act on the part of the Trustee or the Authenticating Agent.
An Authenticating Agent may resign at any time by giving written notice thereof to the Trustee and the Company. The Trustee may at any time terminate the agency of an Authenticating Agent by giving written notice thereof to such Authenticating Agent and to the Company. Upon receiving such a notice of resignation or upon such a termination, or in case at any time such Authenticating Agent shall cease to be eligible in accordance with the provisions of this Section, the Trustee may appoint a successor Authenticating Agent which shall be acceptable to the Company and shall mail written notice of such appointment by first-class mail, postage prepaid, to all Holders of Securities of the series with respect to which such Authenticating Agent will serve, as their names and addresses appear in the Security Register. Any successor Authenticating Agent upon acceptance of its appointment hereunder shall become vested with all the rights, powers and duties of its predecessor hereunder, with like effect as if originally named as an Authenticating Agent. No successor Authenticating Agent shall be appointed unless eligible under the provisions of this Section.
The Trustee agrees to pay to each Authenticating Agent from time to time reasonable compensation for its services under this Section, and the Trustee shall be entitled to be reimbursed for such payments, subject to the provisions of Section 607.
If an appointment with respect to one or more series is made pursuant to this Section, the Securities of such series may have endorsed thereon, in addition to the Trustee's certificate of authentication, an alternative certificate of authentication in the following form:
This is one of the Securities of the series designated therein referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
 
 
Section 615. Compliance with Tax Laws.
The Trustee hereby agrees to comply with all U.S. Federal income tax information reporting and withholding requirements applicable to it with respect to payments of premium (if any) and interest on the Securities of any series, whether acting as Trustee, Security Registrar, Paying Agent or otherwise with respect to the Securities of any series.
Section 701. Company to Furnish Trustee Names and Addresses of Holders.
The Company will furnish or cause to be furnished to the Trustee
(1) semi-annually, not later than 15 days after the Regular Record Date for each series of Securities, a list, in such form as the Trustee may reasonably require, of the names and addresses of the Holders of Securities as of such Regular Record Date (unless the Trustee has such information), or if there is no Regular Record Date for interest for such series of Securities, semi-annually, upon such dates as are set forth in the Board Resolution or indenture supplemental hereto authorizing such series, and
(2) at such other times as the Trustee may request in writing, within 30 days after the receipt by the Company of any such request, a list of similar form and content as of a date not more than 15 days prior to the time such list is furnished,
provided, however, that so long as the Trustee is the Security Registrar, no such list shall be required to be furnished.
Section 702. Preservation of Information; Communications to Holders.
(a) The Trustee shall preserve, in as current a form as is reasonably practicable, the names and addresses of Holders of Securities (i) contained in the most recent list furnished to the Trustee for each series as provided in Section 701 and (ii) received by the Trustee for each series in the capacity as Security Registrar if the Trustee is acting in such capacity. The Trustee may destroy any list furnished to it as provided in Section 701 upon receipt of a new list so furnished.
 
(b) The rights of Holders to communicate with other Holders with respect to their rights under this Indenture or under the Securities, and the corresponding rights and privileges of the Trustee, shall be as provided by the Trust Indenture Act.
(c) Every Holder of Securities, by receiving and holding the same, agrees with the Company and the Trustee that neither the Company nor the Trustee nor any agent of either of them shall be held accountable by reason of any disclosure of information as to the names and addresses of Holders made pursuant to the Trust Indenture Act.
Section 703. Reports by Trustee.
(a) The Trustee shall transmit to Holders of Securities, as their names and addresses appear in the Security Register, such reports, if any, concerning the Trustee and its actions under this Indenture as may be required pursuant to the Trust Indenture Act at the times and in the manner provided pursuant thereto. The reports required pursuant to Section 313(a) of the Trust Indenture Act shall be dated as of May 15 of each year and transmitted not more than 60 days after the date thereof.
(b) A copy of such report shall, at the time of such transmission to Holders, be filed by the Trustee with each stock exchange upon which any Securities are listed, with the Commission and with the Company. The Company will notify the Trustee when any Securities are listed on any stock exchange and any delisting thereof.
Section 704. Reports by Company.
The Company shall file with the Trustee and the Commission, and transmit to Holders, such information, documents and other reports, if any, and such summaries thereof, as may be required pursuant to the Trust Indenture Act at the times and in the manner provided pursuant to the Trust Indenture Act; provided that any such information, documents or reports required to be filed with the Commission pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act shall be filed with the Trustee within 15 days after the Company files the same with the Commission (unless such information, documents or reports are available on the Commission's Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis and Retrieval system (or any successor thereto)). Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, the sole remedy for a breach of this Section 704 by the Company shall be established in an Officer's Certificate or in one or more indentures supplement hereto.
 
Section 801. Company May Consolidate, Etc., Only on Certain Terms.
The Company shall not consolidate with or merge with or into any Person, or convey, transfer or lease all or substantially all of its assets, or permit any Person to consolidate with or merge into the Company, unless the following conditions have been satisfied:
(a) either (1) the Company shall be the continuing Person in the case of a merger or (2) the resulting, surviving or transferee Person, if other than the Company (the "Successor Company"), is a Person (if such Person is not a corporation, then the Successor Company shall include a corporate co-issuer of the Securities) organized and existing under the laws of the United States, any State or the District of Columbia and shall expressly assume all the obligations of the Company under the Securities and the Indenture.
(b) immediately after giving effect to the transaction (and treating any Debt that becomes an obligation of the Successor Company or any Subsidiary of the Company as a result of the transaction as having been incurred by the Successor Company or the Subsidiary at the time of the transaction), no default, Event of Default or event that, after notice or lapse of time, would become an Event of Default under this Indenture would occur or be continuing; and
(c) the Company shall have delivered to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel, each stating that the consolidation, merger, transfer or lease complies with this Indenture.
Section 802. Successor Substituted.
Upon any consolidation by the Company with, or merger by the Company into, any other Person or any conveyance, transfer or lease of the properties and assets of the Company as an entirety or substantially as an entirety as described in the preceding paragraph, the Successor Company resulting from such consolidation or into which the Company is merged or the transferee or lessee to which such conveyance, transfer or lease is made, will succeed to, and be substituted for, and may exercise every right and power of, the Company under this Indenture, and thereafter, except in the case of a lease, the predecessor (if still in existence) will be released from its obligations and covenants under this Indenture and all Outstanding Securities.
Section 901. Supplemental Indentures Without Consent of Holders.
Without the consent of any Holders, the Company, when authorized by a Board Resolution, and the Trustee, at any time and from time to time, may enter into one or more indentures supplemental hereto, in form satisfactory to the Trustee, for any of the following purposes:
(a) to cure any ambiguity or omission or to correct or supplement any provision contained in this Indenture, in any supplemental indenture or in any Securities that may be defective or inconsistent with any other provision contained therein, to convey, transfer, assign, mortgage or pledge any property to or with the Trustee, or to make such other provisions in regard to matters or questions arising under this Indenture, in each case as shall not adversely affect the interests of any Holders of Securities of any series in any material respect;
 
(b) to evidence the succession of another Person to the Company pursuant to the provisions of this Indenture relating to consolidations, mergers and sales of assets and the assumption by the successor of the covenants, agreements and obligations of the Company herein and in the Securities;
(c) to surrender any right or power conferred upon the Company by this Indenture, to add to the covenants of the Company such further covenants, restrictions, conditions or provisions for the protection of the Holders of all or any series of Securities as the Board of Directors of the Company shall consider to be for the protection of the Holders of the Securities, and to make the occurrence, or the occurrence and continuance of a default in any of the additional covenants, restrictions, conditions or provisions a default or an Event of Default under this Indenture (provided, however, that with respect to any such additional covenant, restriction, condition or provision, the supplemental indenture may provide for a period of grace after default, which may be shorter or longer than that allowed in the case of other defaults, may provide for an immediate enforcement upon the default, may limit the remedies available to the Trustee upon the default, or may limit the right of Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of any or all series of Securities to waive the default);
(d) to modify or amend this Indenture in such a manner as to permit the qualification of this Indenture or any supplemental indenture under the Trust Indenture Act as then in effect;
(e) to add guarantees with respect to any or all of the Securities of a series or to secure any or all of the Securities of a series;
(f) to make any change that does not adversely affect the rights of any Holder;
(g) to add to, change or eliminate any of the provisions of this Indenture with respect to one or more series of Securities, so long as any such addition, change or elimination not otherwise permitted hereunder shall (1) neither apply to any Security of any series created prior to the execution of the supplemental indenture and entitled to the benefit of the provision nor modify the rights of the Holders of any Security with respect to the provision, or (2) become effective only when there is no such Security outstanding;
(h) to evidence and provide for the acceptance of appointment by a successor or separate Trustee with respect to the Securities of one or more series and to add to or change any of the provisions of this Indenture as shall be necessary to provide for or facilitate the administration of this Indenture by more than one Trustee;
 
(i) to comply with the rules of any Depositary;
(j) to establish the form or terms of Securities of any series; and
(k) to provide for uncertificated Securities in addition to or in place of certificated Securities (provided that the uncertificated Securities are issued in registered form for purposes of Section 163(f) of the Internal Revenue Code or in a manner such that the uncertificated Securities are described in Section 163(f)(2)(B) of such code).
Section 902. Supplemental Indentures with Consent of Holders.
With the consent of the Holders of not less than a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of each series affected by such supplemental indenture, by Act of said Holders delivered to the Company and the Trustee, the Company, when authorized by a Board Resolution, and the Trustee may enter into an indenture or indentures supplemental hereto for the purpose of adding any provisions to or changing in any manner or eliminating any of the provisions of this Indenture or of modifying in any manner the rights of the Holders of Securities of such series under this Indenture and any past default or compliance with any provisions may also be waived by Act of said Holders; provided, however, that no such supplemental indenture shall without the consent of the Holder of each Outstanding Security affected thereby,
(1) change the Stated Maturity of the principal of, or any installment of principal of or interest on, any Security, or reduce the principal amount thereof or the rate of interest thereon or any premium, Redemption Price or Repayment Price payable upon the redemption thereof, or reduce the amount of the principal of an Original Issue Discount Security that would be due and payable upon a declaration of acceleration of the Maturity thereof pursuant to Section 502, or change any Place of Payment where, or the coin or currency in which, any Security or any premium or interest thereon is payable, or impair the right to institute suit for the enforcement of any payment on or after the Stated Maturity thereof (or, in the case of redemption or repayment, on or after the Redemption Date or Repayment Date, as the case may be), or
(2) reduce the percentage in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of any series, the consent of whose Holders is required for any such supplemental indenture, or the consent of whose Holders is required for any waiver (of compliance with certain provisions of this Indenture or certain defaults hereunder and their consequences) provided for in this Indenture, or
(3) modify any of the provisions of this Section, Section 513 or Section 1010, except to increase any such percentage or to provide that certain other provisions of this Indenture cannot be modified or waived without the consent of the Holder of each Outstanding Security affected thereby, provided, however, that this clause shall not be deemed to require the consent of any Holder with respect to changes in the references to "the Trustee" and concomitant changes in this Section and Section 1010, or the deletion of this proviso, in accordance with the requirements of Sections 611(b) and 901(d).
 
A supplemental indenture which changes or eliminates any covenant or other provision of this Indenture which has expressly been included solely for the benefit of one or more particular series of Securities, or which modifies the rights of the Holders of Securities of such series with respect to such covenant or other provision, shall be deemed not to affect the rights under this Indenture of the Holders of Securities of any other series.
It shall not be necessary for any Act of Holders under this Section to approve the particular form of any proposed supplemental indenture, but it shall be sufficient if such Act shall approve the substance thereof.
Section 903. Execution of Supplemental Indentures.
In executing, or accepting the additional trusts created by, any supplemental indenture permitted by this Article or the modifications thereby of the trusts created by this Indenture, the Trustee shall be entitled to receive, and (subject to Section 601) shall be fully protected in relying upon, an Opinion of Counsel and Officers' Certificate stating that the execution of such supplemental indenture is authorized or permitted by this Indenture. The Trustee may, but shall not be obligated to, enter into any such supplemental indenture which affects the Trustee's own rights, duties or immunities under this Indenture or otherwise.
Section 904. Effect of Supplemental Indentures.
Upon the execution of any supplemental indenture under this Article, this Indenture shall be modified in accordance therewith, and such supplemental indenture shall form a part of this Indenture for all purposes; and every Holder of Securities theretofore or thereafter authenticated and delivered hereunder shall be bound thereby.
Section 905. Conformity with Trust Indenture Act.
Every supplemental indenture executed pursuant to this Article shall conform to the requirements of the Trust Indenture Act as then in effect.
Section 906. Reference in Securities to Supplemental Indentures.
Securities of any series authenticated and delivered after the execution of any supplemental indenture pursuant to this Article may, and shall if required by the Trustee, bear a notation in form approved by the Trustee as to any matter provided for in such supplemental indenture. If the Company shall so determine, new Securities of any series so modified as to conform, in the opinion of the Trustee and the Company, to any such supplemental indenture may be prepared and executed by the Company and authenticated and delivered by the Trustee in exchange for Outstanding Securities of such series.
 
Section 1001. Payment of Principal, Premium and Interest.
The Company covenants and agrees for the benefit of each series of Securities that it will duly and punctually pay the principal of and any premium and interest on the Securities of that series in accordance with the terms of the Securities and this Indenture. Principal, premium and interest shall be considered paid on the date due if on such date the Trustee or the Paying Agent holds in accordance with this Indenture money sufficient to pay all principal, premium and interest then due.
Section 1002. Maintenance of Office or Agency.
The Company will maintain in each Place of Payment for any series of Securities an office or agency where Securities of that series may be presented or surrendered for payment, where Securities of that series may be surrendered for registration of transfer or exchange and where notices and demands to or upon the Company in respect of the Securities of that series and this Indenture may be served. The Company will give prompt written notice to the Trustee of the location, and any change in the location, of such office or agency. If at any time the Company shall fail to maintain any such required office or agency or shall fail to furnish the Trustee with the address thereof, such presentations, surrenders, notices and demands may be made or served at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee, and the Company hereby appoints the Trustee as its agent to receive all such presentations, surrenders, notices and demands.
The Company may also from time to time designate one or more other offices or agencies where the Securities of one or more series may be presented or surrendered for any or all such purposes and may from time to time rescind such designations; provided, however, that no such designation or rescission shall in any manner relieve the Company of its obligation to maintain an office or agency in each Place of Payment for Securities of any series for such purposes. The Company will give prompt written notice to the Trustee of any such designation or rescission and of any change in the location of any such other office or agency.
Section 1003. Money for Securities Payments to Be Held in Trust.
If the Company shall at any time act as its own Paying Agent with respect to any series of Securities, it will, on or before each due date of the principal of or any premium or interest on any of the Securities of that series, segregate and hold in trust for the benefit of the Persons entitled thereto a sum sufficient to pay the principal and any premium and interest so becoming due until such sums shall be paid to such Persons or otherwise disposed of as herein provided and will promptly notify the Trustee of its action or failure so to act.
Whenever the Company shall have one or more Paying Agents for any series of Securities, it will, on or prior to each due date of the principal of, or any premium or interest on, any Securities of that series, deposit with a Paying Agent a sum sufficient to pay such amount, such sum to be held as provided by the Trust Indenture Act, and (unless such Paying Agent is the Trustee) the Company will promptly notify the Trustee of its action or failure so to act.
 
The Company will cause each Paying Agent for any series of Securities other than the Trustee to execute and deliver to the Trustee an instrument in which such Paying Agent shall agree with the Trustee, subject to the provisions of this Section, that such Paying Agent will (a) comply with the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act applicable to it as a Paying Agent and (b) during the continuance of any default by the Company (or any other obligor upon the Securities of that series) in the making of any payment in respect of the Securities of that series, upon the written request of the Trustee, forthwith pay to the Trustee all sums held in trust by such Paying Agent for payment in respect of the Securities of that series.
The Company may at any time, for the purpose of obtaining the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture or for any other purpose, pay, or by Company Order direct any Paying Agent to pay, to the Trustee all sums held in trust by the Company or such Paying Agent, such sums to be held by the Trustee upon the same trusts as those upon which such sums were held by the Company or such Paying Agent; and, upon such payment by any Paying Agent to the Trustee, such Paying Agent shall be released from all further liability with respect to such money.
All monies deposited with the Trustee or any Paying Agent, or then held by the Company, in trust for the payment of the principal of or any premium or interest on any Security of any series and remaining unclaimed for two years after such principal, premium or interest has become due and payable shall be paid to the Company on Company Request (including interest income on such funds, if any), or (if then held by the Company) shall be discharged from such trust; and the Holder of such Security shall thereafter, as an unsecured general creditor, look only to the Company for payment thereof, and all liability of the Trustee or such Paying Agent with respect to such trust money, and all liability of the Company as trustee thereof, shall thereupon cease.
Section 1004. Statement by Officers as to Default.
The Company will deliver to the Trustee, within 120 days after the end of each fiscal year of the Company ending after the date hereof, a brief certificate from the principal executive, financial or accounting officer or treasurer of the Company as to his or her knowledge of the Company's compliance (without regard to any period of grace or requirement of notice provided hereunder) with all conditions and covenants hereof.
Section 1005. Existence.
Subject to Article Eight, the Company will do or cause to be done all things necessary to preserve and keep in full force and effect its corporate existence, rights (charter and statutory) and franchises; provided, however, that the Company shall not be required to preserve any such right or franchise if the Company shall determine that the preservation thereof is no longer desirable in the conduct of the business of the Company and that the loss thereof is not disadvantageous in any material respect to the Holders.
 
Section 1006. Maintenance of Properties.
The Company will cause all material properties used or useful in the conduct of its business or the business of any Subsidiary to be maintained and kept in good condition, repair and working order and supplied with all necessary equipment and will cause to be made all necessary repairs, renewals, replacements, betterments and improvements thereof, all as (and to the extent) in the judgment of the Company may be necessary or appropriate in connection with its business; provided, however, that nothing in this Section shall prevent the Company from discontinuing the operation or maintenance of any of such properties if such discontinuance is, in the judgment of the Company, desirable in the conduct of its business or the business of any Subsidiary and not disadvantageous in any material respect to the Holders.
Section 1007. Payment of Taxes and Other Claims.
The Company will pay or discharge or cause to be paid or discharged, within 30 days after the Company shall have received notice that the same has become delinquent (1) all material taxes, assessments and governmental charges levied or imposed upon the Company or any Subsidiary or upon the income, profits or property of the Company or any Subsidiary, and (2) all lawful claims for labor, materials and supplies which, if unpaid, might by law become a material lien upon the property of the Company or any Subsidiary; provided, however, that the Company shall not be required to pay or discharge or cause to be paid or discharged any such tax, assessment, charge or claim whose amount, applicability or validity is being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings; provided, further, that the Company shall not be required to pay or discharge or cause to be paid or discharged any such tax, assessment, charge or claim unless the failure to pay or discharge such tax, assessment, charge or claim would, individually or in the aggregate with all such failures, have a material adverse effect on the Company and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole.
Section 1008. Limitations on Liens.
Unless the terms of a particular series of Securities otherwise provide, so long as any Securities of such series remain Outstanding, the Company will not, nor will it permit any Subsidiary to, issue, incur, create, assume or guarantee any debt for borrowed money (hereinafter referred to as "Debt"), secured by a mortgage, security interest, pledge, lien, charge or other encumbrance (mortgages, security interests, pledges, liens, charges and other encumbrances being hereinafter in this Article Ten referred to as "lien" or "liens") upon any Principal Property of the Company or any Subsidiary or upon any shares of stock or indebtedness of any Subsidiary that owns any Principal Property (whether such Principal Property, shares of stock or indebtedness are now existing or owed or hereafter created or acquired) without in any such case effectively providing concurrently with the issuance, incurrence, creation, assumption or guaranty of any such Debt that the Securities of such series (together with, if the Company shall so determine, any other indebtedness of or guarantee by the Company or such Subsidiary ranking equally with the Securities of such series and then existing or thereafter created) shall be secured equally and ratably with (or, at the Company's option, prior to) such secured Debt until such time as such Debt is no longer secured by a lien. The preceding sentence shall not require the Company to secure any Securities of such series if the lien consists of either of the following:
(a) Permitted Liens; or
 
(b) liens securing Debt if, after giving pro forma effect to the incurrence, creation, assumption or guaranty of such Debt (and the receipt and application of the proceeds thereof) or the securing of outstanding Debt, the sum of (without duplication) (i) the aggregate principal amount of all such Debt of the Company and its Subsidiaries secured by liens (other than Permitted Liens) upon Principal Property of the Company or any Subsidiary or upon any shares of stock or indebtedness of any Subsidiary that owns Principal Property (or, in the case of a lien, the lesser of such principal amount and the fair market value of the property subject to such lien, as determined in good faith by the Board of Directors) and (ii) all Attributable Indebtedness in respect of Sale and Lease-Back Transactions in each case not otherwise permitted under Section 1009, at the time of determination does not exceed the greater of 10% of Consolidated Net Tangible Assets or $800,000,000.
Section 1009. Limitations on Sale and Lease-Back Transactions.
Unless the terms of a particular series of Securities otherwise provide, so long as any Securities of such series remain Outstanding, the Company will not, nor will it permit any Subsidiary to, enter into any Sale and Lease-Back Transaction unless (a) the Company or such Subsidiary would be entitled to incur Debt secured by a lien on the Principal Property involved in such transaction in an amount at least equal to the Attributable Indebtedness with respect to such Sale and Lease-Back Transaction without equally and ratably securing the Securities of such series pursuant to Section 1008 or (b) the Company, within six months after the effective date of such Sale and Lease-Back Transaction, applies an amount equal to the Attributable Indebtedness in respect of such Sale and Lease-Back Transaction to the defeasance or retirement (other than any mandatory retirement, mandatory prepayment or sinking fund payment or by way of payment at maturity) of Securities or other Debt of the Company or a Subsidiary that matures more than one year after the creation of such Debt or to the purchase, construction or development of other comparable property.
Section 1010. Waiver of Certain Covenants.
The Company may omit in any particular instance to comply with any term, provision or condition set forth in Sections 1008 and 1009 with respect to the Securities of any series if before the time for such compliance the Holders of not less than a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such series shall, by Act of such Holders, either waive such compliance in such instance or generally waive compliance with such term, provision or condition, but no such waiver shall extend to or affect such term, provision or condition except to the extent so expressly waived, and, until such waiver shall become effective, the obligations of the Company and the duties of the Trustee in respect of any such term, provision or condition shall remain in full force and effect.
 
Section 1101. Applicability of Article.
Securities of any series which are redeemable before their Stated Maturity shall be redeemable in accordance with their terms and (except as otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 301 for Securities of any series) in accordance with this Article.
Section 1102. Election to Redeem; Notice to Trustee.
The election of the Company to redeem any Securities shall be evidenced by a Board Resolution. In case of any redemption at the election of the Company of less than all the Securities of any series, the Company shall, at least 60 days (45 days in the case of redemption of all Securities of any series or of any series with the same (i) Stated Maturity, (ii) period or periods within which, price or prices at which and terms and conditions upon which such Securities may or shall be redeemed or purchased, in whole or in part, at the option of the Company or pursuant to any sinking fund or analogous provision or repayable at the option of the Holder and (iii) rate or rates at which the Securities bear interest, if any, or formula pursuant to which such rate or rates accrue (collectively, the "Equivalent Principal Terms")) prior to the Redemption Date fixed by the Company (unless a shorter notice shall be satisfactory to the Trustee), notify the Trustee of such Redemption Date of the principal amount of Securities of such series to be redeemed and, if applicable, of the tenor of the Securities to be redeemed. In the case of any redemption of Securities prior to the expiration of any restriction on such redemption provided in the terms of such Securities or elsewhere in this Indenture, the Company shall furnish the Trustee with an Officers' Certificate evidencing compliance with such restriction.
Section 1103. Selection by Trustee of Securities to Be Redeemed.
If fewer than all the Securities with Equivalent Principal Terms of any series are to be redeemed (unless all of the Securities of such series and of a specified tenor are to be redeemed), the particular Securities to be redeemed shall be selected (pro rata, to the extent practicable) not more than 60 days prior to the Redemption Date by the Trustee. The Trustee shall make the selection from the Outstanding Securities of such series not previously called for redemption. The Trustee may select for redemption portions of the principal of Securities that have denominations larger than $2,000. Securities and portions of them the Trustee selects shall be in principal amounts of $2,000 or any integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof. Provisions of this Indenture that apply to Securities called for redemption also apply to portions of Securities called for redemption.
The Trustee shall promptly notify the Company in writing of the Securities selected for redemption and, in the case of any Securities selected for partial redemption, the principal amount thereof to be redeemed.
For all purposes of this Indenture, unless the context otherwise requires, all provisions relating to the redemption of Securities shall relate, in the case of any Securities redeemed or to be redeemed only in part, to the portion of the principal amount of such Securities which has been or is to be redeemed.
 
Section 1104. Notice of Redemption.
Notice of redemption shall be given by first-class mail, postage prepaid, mailed not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the Redemption Date, unless a shorter period is specified in the Securities to be redeemed, to each Holder of Securities to be redeemed, at his address appearing in the Security Register.
Any notice that is mailed to the Holder of any Securities in the manner herein provided shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given, whether or not such Holder receives the notice.
All notices of redemption shall state:
(1) the Redemption Date;
(2) the Redemption Price and the amount of accrued interest, if any, to be paid;
(3) if less than all the Outstanding Securities of any series are to be redeemed, the identification (and, in the case of partial redemption of any Securities, the principal amounts) of the particular Securities to be redeemed;
(4) in case any Security is to be redeemed in part only, the notice which relates to such Security shall state that on and after the Redemption Date, upon surrender of such Security, the Holder of such Security will receive, without charge, a new Security or Securities of authorized denominations for the principal amount thereof remaining unredeemed;
(5) that on the Redemption Date the Redemption Price will become due and payable upon each such Security to be redeemed and, if applicable, that interest thereon will cease to accrue on and after said date;
(6) the place or places where such Securities are to be surrendered for payment of the Redemption Price;
(7) that the redemption is for a sinking fund, if such is the case;
(8) the "CUSIP" number, ISIN or "Common Code" number, if any, printed on the Securities being redeemed; and
(9) that no representation is made as to the correctness or accuracy of the "CUSIP" number, ISIN, or "Common Code" number, if any, listed in such notice or printed on the Securities.
 
Notice of redemption of Securities to be redeemed at the election of the Company shall be given by the Company or, at the Company's request, by the Trustee in the name and at the expense of the Company and shall be irrevocable.
Section 1105. Deposit of Redemption Price.
On or prior to any Redemption Date, the Company shall deposit with the Trustee or with a Paying Agent (or, if the Company is acting as its own Paying Agent, segregate and hold in trust as provided in Section 1003) an amount of money sufficient to pay the Redemption Price of, and (except if the Redemption Date shall be an Interest Payment Date) accrued interest on, all the Securities which are to be redeemed on that date.
Section 1106. Securities Payable on Redemption Date.
Notice of redemption having been given as aforesaid, the Securities so to be redeemed shall, on the Redemption Date, become due and payable at the Redemption Price therein specified, and from and after such date (unless the Company shall default in the payment of the Redemption Price and accrued interest) such Securities shall cease to bear interest. Upon surrender of any such Security for redemption in accordance with said notice, such Security shall be paid by the Company at the Redemption Price, together with accrued interest to the Redemption Date; provided, however, that, unless otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 301, installments of interest whose Stated Maturity is on or prior to the Redemption Date will be payable to the Holders of such Securities, or one or more Predecessor Securities, registered as such at the close of business on the relevant Record Dates according to their terms and the provisions of Section 307.
If any Security called for redemption shall not be so paid upon surrender thereof for redemption, the principal and any premium shall, until paid, bear interest from the Redemption Date at the rate prescribed therefor in the Security.
Section 1107. Securities Redeemed in Part.
Any Security which is to be redeemed only in part shall be surrendered at a Place of Payment therefor (with, if the Company or the Trustee so requires, due endorsement by, or a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Trustee duly executed by, the Holder thereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing), and the Company shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the Holder of such Security without service charge, a new Security or Securities of the same series and of like tenor, of any authorized denomination as requested by such Holder, in aggregate principal amount equal to and in exchange for the unredeemed portion of the principal of the Security so surrendered.
 
Section 1201. Applicability of Article.
The provisions of this Article shall be applicable to any sinking fund for the retirement of Securities of a series except as otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 301 for Securities of such series.
The minimum amount of any sinking fund payment provided for by the terms of Securities of any series is herein referred to as a "mandatory sinking fund payment," and any payment in excess of such minimum amount provided for by the terms of Securities of any series is herein referred to as an "optional sinking fund payment." The cash amount of any sinking fund payment may be subject to reduction as provided in Section 1202. Each sinking fund payment shall be applied to the redemption of Securities of any series as provided for by the terms of Securities of such series.
Section 1202. Satisfaction of Sinking Fund Payments with Securities.
The Company (a) may deliver Outstanding Securities of a series (other than any previously called for redemption) and (b) may apply as a credit Securities of a series which have been redeemed either at the election of the Company pursuant to the terms of such Securities or through the application of permitted optional sinking fund payments pursuant to the terms of such Securities, in each case in satisfaction of all or any part of any sinking fund payment with respect to the Securities of such series required to be made pursuant to the terms of such Securities as provided for by the terms of such Series; provided that such Securities have not been previously so credited. Such Securities shall be received and credited for such purpose by the Trustee at the Redemption Price specified in such Securities for redemption through operation of the sinking fund and the amount of such sinking fund payment shall be reduced accordingly.
Section 1203. Redemption of Securities for Sinking Fund.
Not less than 60 days prior to each sinking fund payment date for any series of Securities, the Company will deliver to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate specifying the amount of the next ensuing sinking fund payment for that series pursuant to the terms of that series, the portion thereof, if any, which is to be satisfied by payment of cash and the portion thereof, if any, which is to be satisfied by delivering the crediting Securities of that series pursuant to Section 1202 and will also deliver to the Trustee any Securities to be so delivered. Not less than 30 days before each such sinking fund payment date the Trustee shall select the Securities, if any, to be redeemed upon such sinking fund payment date in the manner specified in Section 1103 and cause notice of the redemption thereof to be given in the name of and at the expense of the Company in the manner provided in Section 1104. Such notice having been duly given, the redemption of such Securities shall be made upon the terms and in the manner stated in Sections 1106 and 1107.
 
Section 1301. Company's Option to Effect Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance.
Section 1302 and/or Section 1303 shall apply to the Outstanding Securities of any series to the extent specified as contemplated by Section 301 for Securities of such series.
Section 1302. Defeasance and Discharge.
The Company shall be deemed to have been discharged from its obligations with respect to the Outstanding Securities of such series as provided in this Section on and after the date the conditions set forth in Section 1304, in the case of defeasance, are satisfied (hereinafter called "Defeasance"). For this purpose, such Defeasance means that the Company shall be deemed to have paid and discharged the entire indebtedness represented by the Outstanding Securities of such series and to have satisfied all of its other obligations under the Securities of such series and this Indenture insofar as the Securities of such series are concerned (and the Trustee, at the expense of the Company, shall execute proper instruments acknowledging the same), subject to the following which shall survive until all the Securities of such series have in fact been paid in full: (a) the rights of Holders of Securities of such series to receive, solely from the trust fund described in Section 1304 and as more fully set forth in such Section, payments in respect of the principal of and any premium and interest on such Securities of such series when payments are due, and (b) the Company's obligations with respect to the Securities of such series under Sections 304, 305, 306, 1002 and 1003. Thereafter, the Company's obligations set forth in Sections 607 and 1305 shall survive. The rights, powers, trusts, duties and immunities of the Trustee hereunder and the provisions of this Article shall survive until otherwise terminated or discharged hereunder.
Subject to compliance with this Article, the Company may defease the Outstanding Securities of any series pursuant to this Section notwithstanding the prior Covenant Defeasance of the Outstanding Securities of such series pursuant to Section 1303.
Section 1303. Covenant Defeasance.
The Company shall be released from its obligations under Sections 1005 through 1009, inclusive, and the occurrence of any event specified in Sections 501(4) (with respect to any of Sections 1005 through 1009 inclusive) and 501(7) or under any covenant added with respect to a series of Securities pursuant to Section 301 shall be deemed not to be or result in an Event of Default, in each case with respect to Outstanding Securities of any series as provided in this Section on and after the date the conditions set forth in Section 1304 are satisfied (hereinafter called "Covenant Defeasance"). For this purpose, such Covenant Defeasance means that the Company may omit to comply with and shall have no liability in respect of any term, condition or limitation set forth in any such specified Section (to the extent so specified in the case of Section 501(4)), whether directly or indirectly by reason of any reference elsewhere herein to any such Section or by reason of any reference in any such Section to any other provision herein or in any other document, but the remainder of this Indenture and the Securities of such series shall be unaffected thereby.
 
Section 1304. Conditions to Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance.
The following shall be the conditions to Defeasance pursuant to Section 1302 or Covenant Defeasance pursuant to Section 1303 of the Outstanding Securities of any series:
(1) The Company shall irrevocably have deposited or caused to be deposited with the Trustee (or another trustee that satisfies the requirements contemplated by Section 609 and agrees to comply with the provisions of this Article applicable to it) as trust funds in trust for the purpose of making the following payments, specifically pledged as security for, and dedicated solely to, the benefit of the Holders of Outstanding Securities of such series, (A) money in an amount, or (B) U.S. Government Obligations that through the scheduled payment of principal and interest in respect thereof in accordance with their terms will provide, not later than the due date of any payment, money in an amount, or (C) a combination thereof, in each case sufficient, in the opinion of a nationally recognized firm of independent public accountants expressed in a written certification thereof delivered to the Trustee, to pay and discharge each installment of principal (including mandatory sinking fund payments) of, and premium (not relating to optional redemption), if any, and interest on, the Outstanding Securities of such series on the dates such installments of principal of, and premium (not relating to optional redemption), if any, or interest are due.
(2) In the case of Defeasance under Section 1302, the Company shall have delivered to the Trustee an Opinion of Counsel stating that (A) the Company has received from, or there has been published by, the Internal Revenue Service a ruling or (B) since the date first set forth hereinabove, there has been a change in the applicable Federal income tax law, in either case (A) or (B) to the effect that, and based thereon such opinion shall confirm that, the Holders of the Outstanding Securities of such series will not recognize gain or loss for Federal income tax purposes as a result of the deposit, Defeasance and discharge to be effected with respect to the Securities of such series and will be subject to Federal income tax on the same amount, in the same manner and at the same times as would be the case if such deposit, Defeasance and discharge were not to occur.
(3) In the case of Covenant Defeasance under Section 1303, the Company shall have delivered to the Trustee an Opinion of Counsel to the effect that the Holders of the Outstanding Securities of such series will not recognize income, gain or loss for Federal income tax purposes as a result of the deposit and Covenant Defeasance to be effected with respect to the Securities of such series and will be subject to Federal income tax on the same amount, in the same manner and at the same times as would be the case if such deposit and Covenant Defeasance were not to occur.
(4) The Company shall have delivered to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate to the effect that the Securities of such series, if then listed on any securities exchange, will not be delisted as a result of such deposit.
 
(5) No Event of Default or event that (after notice or lapse of time or both) would become an Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing at the time of such deposit or, with regard to any Event of Default or any such event specified in Sections 501(5) and (6), at any time on or prior to the 90th day after the date of such deposit (it being understood that this condition shall not be deemed satisfied until after such 90th day).
(6) Such Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance shall not cause the Trustee to have a conflicting interest within the meaning of the Trust Indenture Act (assuming all Securities are in default within the meaning of such Act).
(7) Such Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance (including the deposit pursuant to such Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance) shall not result in a breach or violation of, or constitute a default under, the Indenture or any other agreement or instrument to which the Company is a party or by which it is bound.
(8) The Company shall have delivered to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel, each stating that all conditions precedent with respect to such Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance have been complied with.
(9) Such Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance shall not result in the trust arising from such deposit constituting an investment company within the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940, unless such trust shall be qualified under such Act or exempt from regulation thereunder.
Section 1305. Deposited Money and U.S. Government Obligations to be Held in Trust; Indemnity for U.S. Government Obligations; Repayment to Company.
(a) Subject to the provisions of the last paragraph of Section 1003, all money and U.S. Government Obligations (including the proceeds thereof) deposited with the Trustee or other qualifying trustee (solely for purposes of this Section and Section 1306, the Trustee and any such other trustee are referred to collectively as the "Trustee") pursuant to Section 1304 in respect of the Securities of any series shall be held in trust and applied by the Trustee, in accordance with the provisions of the Securities of such series and this Indenture, to the payment, either directly or through any such Paying Agent (including the Company acting as its own Paying Agent) as the Trustee may determine, to the Holders of Securities of such series, of all sums due and to become due thereon in respect of principal and any premium and interest, but money so held in trust need not be segregated from other funds except to the extent required by law.
(b) The Company shall pay and indemnify the Trustee against any tax, fee or other charge imposed on or assessed against the U.S. Government Obligations deposited pursuant to Section 1304 or the principal and interest received in respect thereof other than any such tax, fee or other charge that by law is for the account of the Holders of Outstanding Securities.
 
(c) Anything in this Article to the contrary notwithstanding, the Trustee and any Paying Agent shall promptly deliver or pay to the Company upon Company Request any money or U.S. Government Obligations held by them as provided in Section 1304 with respect to Securities of any series that, in the opinion of a nationally recognized firm of independent public accountants expressed in a written certification thereof delivered to the Trustee, are in excess of the amount thereof that would then be required to be deposited to effect an equivalent Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance with respect to the Securities of such series.
Section 1306. Reinstatement.
If the Trustee or the Paying Agent is unable to apply any money in accordance with this Article with respect to the Securities of any series by reason of any order or judgment of any court or governmental authority enjoining, restraining or otherwise prohibiting such application, then the Company's obligations under this Indenture and the Securities of such series shall be revived and reinstated as though no deposit had occurred pursuant to this Article with respect to Securities of such series until such time as the Trustee or Paying Agent is permitted to apply all money held in trust pursuant to Section 1305 with respect to Securities of such series in accordance with this Article; provided, however, that if the Company makes any payment of principal of or any premium or interest on any Security of such series following the reinstatement of its obligations, the Company shall be subrogated to the rights of the Holders of Securities of such series to receive such payment from the money so held in trust.
Section 1401. Applicability of Article.
Securities of any series which are repayable at the option of the Holders thereof before their Stated Maturity shall be repaid in accordance with their terms and (except as otherwise contemplated by Section 301 for Securities of such series) in accordance with this Article.
Section 1402. Repayment of Securities.
Each Security which is subject to repayment in whole or in part at the option of the Holder thereof on a Repayment Date shall be repaid at the applicable Repayment Price together with interest accrued to such Repayment Date as specified pursuant to Section 301.
Section 1403. Exercise of Option; Notice.
Each Holder desiring to exercise his option for repayment shall, as conditions to such repayment, surrender the Security to be repaid with written notice of the exercise of such option at any office or agency of the Company in a Place of Payment, not less than 15 nor more than 30 days prior to the Repayment Date. Such notice, which shall be irrevocable, shall identify the Security to be repaid and shall specify the principal amount of such Security to be repaid, which shall be not less than the minimum authorized denomination for such Security or an
 
integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof and, in the case of a partial repayment of the Security, the denomination or denominations of the Security or Securities with Equivalent Principal Terms to be issued to the Holder for the portion of the principal of the Security surrendered which is not to be repaid.
Any Security which is to be repaid only in part shall be surrendered at a Place of Payment therefor (with, if the Company or the Trustee so requires, due endorsement by, or a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Trustee duly executed by, the Holder thereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing), and the Company shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the Holder of such Security without service charge, a new Security or Securities with Equivalent Principal Terms, of any authorized denomination as requested by such Holder, in aggregate principal amount equal to and in exchange for the unredeemed portion of the principal of the Security so surrendered.
For all purposes of this Indenture, unless the context otherwise requires, all provisions relating to the repayment of Securities shall relate, in the case of any Security repaid or to be repaid only in part, to the portion of the principal of such Security which has been or is to be repaid.
Section 1404. Securities Payable on the Repayment Date.
Notice of exercise of the option of repayment having been given and the Securities so to be repaid having been surrendered as aforesaid, such Securities shall, on the Repayment Date, become due and payable at the Repayment Price therein specified and from and after such date (unless the Company shall default in the payment of Repayment Price and accrued interest) such Securities shall cease to bear interest. Upon surrender of any such Security for repayment in accordance with Section 1403, such Security shall be paid by the Company at the Repayment Price, together with accrued interest to the Repayment Date; provided, however, that, installments of interest on Securities whose Stated Maturity is on or prior to the Repayment Date shall be payable to the Holders of such Securities, or one or more Predecessor Securities, registered as such at the close of business on the relevant Record Dates according to their terms and the provisions of Section 307.
If any Security duly surrendered for repayment shall not be so paid, the principal and any premium shall, until paid, bear interest from the Repayment Date at the rate prescribed therefor in the Security.
This instrument may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which so executed shall be deemed to be an original, but all such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Indenture to be duly executed, and their respective corporate seals to be hereunto affixed and attested, all as of the day and year first above written.
 

Exhibit 4.2
EXECUTION VERSION
This FIRST SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE, dated April 6, 2009 (this ""), is made and entered into between Dell Inc., a Delaware corporation (the ""), and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., a national banking association organized under the laws of the United States of America (the ""). Capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined have the meanings set forth in the Indenture referred to below.
Supplemental Indenture
Company
Trustee
A. ARTICLE NINE of the Indenture, dated April 6, 2009, between the Company and the Trustee (the "") provides that, without the consent of any Holders, the Company, when authorized by a Board Resolution, and the Trustee may enter into a supplemental indenture to the Indenture to establish the form or terms of Securities of any series.
Indenture
B. The Company desires to issue $500,000,000 aggregate principal amount of 5.625% Notes due 2014 (the ""), and in connection therewith, the Company has duly determined to make, execute and deliver to the Trustee this Supplemental Indenture to set forth the terms and provisions of the Notes as required by the Indenture.
Notes
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual agreements and covenants set forth herein, the parties hereto agree, subject to the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth, as follows for the benefit of the Trustee and the Holders of the Notes:
Section 1. . Pursuant to Section 301 of the Indenture, the terms and provisions of the Notes are as follows:
Notes
(a) The title of the Notes shall be "5.625% Notes due 2014."
(b) The Notes shall be initially limited to $500,000,000 aggregate principal amount. The Company may, without the consent of the Holders of the Notes, increase such aggregate principal amounts in the future, on the same terms and conditions, except for any differences in the issue price and interest accrued prior to the issue date of the additional Notes, and with the same CUSIP numbers as the Notes. The Company shall not issue any such additional Notes unless the additional Notes are fungible with the Notes for United States federal income tax purposes.
(c) The price at which the Notes shall be issued to the public is 99.916%.
(d) The Stated Maturity for the Notes shall be on April 15, 2014. The Notes shall not require any principal or premium payments prior to maturity on April 15, 2014.
(e) The rate at which the Notes shall bear interest shall be 5.625% per annum. Interest on the Notes shall accrue from the most recent date to which interest has been paid, or, if no interest has been paid, from April 6, 2009. Each April 15 or October 15 in each year, commencing October 15, 2009, shall be an Interest Payment Date for the Notes. The April 1 or October 1 (whether or not a Business Day), as the case may be, next preceding an Interest
Payment Date shall be the Regular Record Date for the interest payable on such Interest Payment Date. The Company shall pay interest on overdue principal and premium at the rate borne by the Notes plus 1.000% percent per annum, and the Company shall pay interest on overdue installments of interest at the same rate to the extent lawful.
(f) Payments of principal of and interest on the Notes represented by one or more Global Security initially registered in the name of The Depository Trust Company (the "") or its nominee with respect to the Notes shall be made by the Company through the Trustee in immediately available funds to the Depositary or its nominee, as the case may be.
Depositary
(g) The Notes shall be redeemable at any time in whole, or from time to time in part, at the Company's option in accordance with the terms and provisions set forth in hereof and (to the extent they do not conflict with hereof) the terms and provisions of ARTICLE ELEVEN of the Indenture.
Section 2
Section 2
(h) There shall be no mandatory sinking fund for the payments of the Notes.
(i) ARTICLE EIGHT of the Indenture shall apply to the Notes.
(j) The Notes shall be represented by one or more Global Securities deposited with the Depositary and registered in the name of the nominee of the Depositary.
(k) The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. shall be the Trustee for the Notes under the Indenture.
(l) With respect to the Notes, so long as the Company is subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act, the Company's failure to comply with Section 314(a) of the Trust Indenture Act (relating to the filing of reports, information and other documents with the Commission), shall not constitute an Event of Default.
(m) With respect to the Notes and not to any other Securities that may be issued from time to time under the Indenture (unless specified in a supplemental indenture pertaining to such Securities), Section 704 of the Indenture is hereby amended and restated in its entirety to read as follows:
"Section 704. Reports by Company.
The Company shall file with the Trustee and the Commission, and transmit to Holders, such information, documents and other reports, if any, and such summaries thereof, as may be required pursuant to the Trust Indenture Act at the times and in the manner provided pursuant to the Trust Indenture Act; provided that any such information, documents or reports required to be filed with the Commission pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act shall be filed with the Trustee within 30 days after the same is so required to be filed with the Commission."
(n) To the extent not set forth otherwise herein, the provisions of Section 301 of the Indenture are applicable.
 
Section 2. .
Optional Redemption of the Notes
(a) The Notes shall be redeemable, at any time in whole or from time to time in part, at the Company's option, at a Redemption Price equal to the greater of:
(i) 100% of the principal amount of the Notes to be redeemed; and
(ii) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest on the Notes to be redeemed from the Redemption Date to the Stated Maturity of the Notes to be redeemed (exclusive of any interest accrued to the Redemption Date), discounted to the Redemption Date on a semi-annual basis assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months, at the Treasury Rate plus 50 basis points (the ""),
Applicable Premium
plus, in each case, any interest accrued but not paid on the Notes to be redeemed to the Redemption Date. Notwithstanding the foregoing, installments of interest on Notes that are due and payable on Interest Payment Dates falling on or prior to a Redemption Date will be payable on the Interest Payment Date to the registered holders as of the close of business on the relevant Regular Record Date.
(b) Unless the Company defaults in payment of the Redemption Price, on and after the Redemption Date, interest will cease to accrue on the Notes or portions thereof called for redemption. If less than all of the Notes are to be redeemed at any time, the Trustee will select the Notes for redemption on a pro rata basis. Notes in denominations of $2,000 or less may not be redeemed in part. Notes in denominations larger than $2,000 principal amount may be redeemed in part but only in whole multiples of $1,000. Notice of any redemption may, at the Company's discretion, be subject to one or more conditions precedent. A notice of redemption need not set forth the exact Redemption Price but only the manner of calculation thereof.
(c) The Applicable Premium shall be calculated by an independent investment banking institution of national standing appointed by the Company; provided, however, if the Company fails to make such appointment at least 45 Business Days prior to the Redemption Date, or if the institution so appointed is unwilling or unable to make such calculation, such calculation will be made by an independent investment banking institution of national standing appointed by the Trustee.
Section 3. .
Definitions
(a) "" means the United States Treasury security selected by the Quotation Agent as having a maturity comparable to the remaining term of the Notes to be redeemed that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable maturity to the remaining term of such Notes.
Comparable Treasury Issue
(b) "" means, with respect to any Redemption Date, (i) the average of four Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for such Redemption Date, after excluding the highest and lowest such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, or (ii) if the Quotation Agent obtains fewer than four such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all such quotations, or (iii) if only one Reference Treasury Dealer Quotation is received, such quotation.
Comparable Treasury Price
 
(c) "" means the Reference Treasury Dealer appointed by the Company.
Quotation Agent
(d) "" means (i) Banc of America Securities LLC, Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated or UBS Securities LLC (or their respective affiliates that are Primary Treasury Dealers) and their respective successors; provided, however, that if any of the foregoing shall cease to be a primary U.S. government securities dealer in the United States (a ""), the Company will substitute therefor another Primary Treasury Dealer, and (ii) any other Primary Treasury Dealer selected by the Company.
Reference Treasury Dealer
Primary Treasury Dealer
(e) "" means, with respect to each Reference Treasury Dealer and any Redemption Date, the average, as determined by the Quotation Agent, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to the Quotation Agent by such Reference Treasury Dealer at 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on the third Business Day preceding such Redemption Date.
Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations
(f) "" means, with respect to any Redemption Date, the rate per annum equal to the semiannual equivalent yield to maturity of the Comparable Treasury Issue, assuming a price for such Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for such Redemption Date.
Treasury Rate
Section 4. . This Supplemental Indenture may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which so executed shall be deemed to be an original, but all such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.
Counterparts
Section 5. . This Supplemental Indenture shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.
Governing Law
Section 6. . The recitals contained herein and in the Notes, except the Trustee's certificates of authentication, shall be taken as the statements of the Company, and the Trustee assumes no responsibility for their correctness. The Trustee makes no representations as to the validity or sufficiency of this Supplemental Indenture or of the Notes. The Trustee shall not be accountable for the use or application by the Company of Notes or the proceeds thereof.
Trustee Not Responsible for Recitals or Issuance of Notes
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Supplemental Indenture to be signed on their behalf by their duly authorized representatives as of the date first above written:
 

Exhibit 4.3
UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY, A NEW YORK CORPORATION ("DTC"), NEW YORK, NEW YORK, TO THE COMPANY OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE, OR PAYMENT, AND ANY CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR IN SUCH OTHER NAME AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC (AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL INASMUCH AS THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.
TRANSFERS OF THIS GLOBAL SECURITY SHALL BE LIMITED TO TRANSFERS IN WHOLE, BUT NOT IN PART, TO NOMINEES OF DTC OR TO A SUCCESSOR THEREOF OR SUCH SUCCESSOR'S NOMINEE AND TRANSFERS OF PORTIONS OF THIS GLOBAL SECURITY SHALL BE LIMITED TO TRANSFERS MADE IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE RESTRICTIONS SET FORTH IN THE INDENTURE REFERRED TO ON THE REVERSE HEREOF.
 
CUSIP NO: 24702R AG6
DELL INC., a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (herein called the "Company," which term includes any successor Person under the Indenture hereinafter referred to), for value received, hereby promises to pay to Cede & Co., or registered assigns, the principal sum of $             on April 15, 2014 and to pay interest thereon from April 6, 2009 or from the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year, commencing October 15, 2009 at the rate of 5.625% per annum, until the principal hereof is paid or made available for payment, and (to the extent that the payment of such interest shall be legally enforceable) at the rate of 1.000% per annum on any overdue principal and premium and on any overdue installment of interest. The interest so payable, and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date will, as provided in such Indenture, be paid to the Person in whose name this Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest, which shall be the April 1 or October 1 (whether or not a Business Day), as the case may be, next preceding such Interest Payment Date. Any such interest not so punctually paid or duly provided for will forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on such Regular Record Date and may either
be paid to the Person in whose name this Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest to be fixed by the Trustee, notice whereof shall be given to Holders of Securities of this series not less than 10 days prior to such Special Record Date, or be paid at any time in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which the Securities of this series may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, all as more fully provided in said Indenture.
Payment of principal of (and premium, if any) and any such interest on this Security will be made at the office or agency of the Trustee maintained for that purpose in 101 Barclay Street 7 East, New York, NY, 10014, in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts. In the event the Global Security representing the Securities becomes exchangeable for definitive Securities pursuant to the terms of the Indenture, at the option of the Company payment of interest may be made by check mailed to the address of the Person entitled thereto as such address shall appear in the Security Register.
So long as all of the Securities of this series are represented by Global Securities, the principal of, premium, if any, and interest, if any, on this Global Security shall be paid in same day funds to the Depositary, or to such name or entity as is requested by an authorized representative of the Depositary. If at any time the Securities of this series are no longer represented by the Global Securities and are issued in definitive form ("Certificated Securities"), then the principal of, premium, if any, and interest, if any, on each Certificated Security at Maturity shall be paid in same day funds to the Holder upon surrender of such Certificated Security at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee, or at such other place or places as may be designated in or pursuant to the Indenture, provided that such Certificated Security is surrendered to the Trustee, acting as Paying Agent, in time for the Paying Agent to make such payments in such funds in accordance with its normal procedures. Payments of interest with respect to Certificated Securities other than at Maturity may, at the option of the Company, be made by check mailed to the address of the Person entitled thereto as it appears on the Security Register on the relevant Regular or Special Record Date or by wire transfer in same day funds to such account as may have been appropriately designated to the Paying Agent by such Person in writing not later than such relevant Regular or Special Record Date.
Reference is hereby made to the further provisions of this Security set forth on the reverse hereof, which further provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at this place.
Unless the certificate of authentication hereof has been executed by the Trustee referred to on the reverse hereof by manual signature, this Security shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed under its corporate seal.
Dated:             ,     
 
This is one of the Securities of the series designated therein referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
 
This Security is one of a duly authorized issue of securities of the Company (herein called the "Securities"), issued and to be issued in one or more series under an Indenture, dated as of April 6, 2009 (herein called the "Base Indenture"), between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as Trustee (herein called the "Trustee," which term includes any successor trustee under the Indenture), as supplemented by the First Supplemental Indenture dated as of April 6, 2009 between the Company and the Trustee (the "Supplemental Indenture" and, together with the Base Indenture, the "Indenture"), to which Indenture and all other indentures supplemental thereto reference is hereby made for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and immunities thereunder of the Company, the Trustee and the Holders of the Securities and of the terms upon which the Securities are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered. This Security is one of the series designated on the face hereof, limited in aggregate amount to $500,000,000.
Except as set forth below, the Company shall not be entitled to redeem the Securities.
The Securities shall be redeemable, at any time in whole or from time to time in part, at the Company's option, at a Redemption Price at any time equal to the greater of:
(i) 100% of the principal amount of the Security to be redeemed; and
(ii) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest on the Security to be redeemed from the Redemption Date to the Stated Maturity of the Security to be redeemed (exclusive of any interest accrued to the Redemption Date), discounted to the Redemption Date on a semi-annual basis assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months, at the Treasury Rate plus 50 basis points.
plus, in each case, any interest accrued but not paid on the Security to be redeemed to the Redemption Date. Notwithstanding the foregoing, installments of interest on the Securities that are due and payable on Interest Payment Dates falling on or prior to a Redemption Date will be payable on the Interest Payment Date to the registered holders as of the close of business on the relevant Regular Record Date.
In the event of redemption of this Security in part only, a new Security or Securities of this series and of like tenor for the unredeemed portion hereof will be issued in the name of the Holder hereof upon the cancellation hereof.
If an Event of Default with respect to Securities of this series shall occur and be continuing, the principal of the Securities of this series may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture.
The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the amendment thereof and the modification of the rights and obligations of the Company and the rights of the Holders of the Securities of each series to be affected under the Indenture at any time by the Company and the Trustee with the consent of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Securities at the time Outstanding of each series to be affected. The Indenture also contains provisions permitting the Holders of specified percentages in principal amount of the Securities of each series at the time Outstanding, on behalf of the Holders of Securities of such series, to waive compliance by the Company with certain provisions of the Indenture and certain defaults under the Indenture and their consequences. Any such consent or waiver by the Holder of this Security shall be conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all future Holders of this Security and of any Security issued upon the registration of transfer hereof or in exchange hereof or in lieu hereof, whether or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Security.
Each of the defeasance and covenant defeasance provisions of Article Thirteen of the Indenture shall apply to this Security.
No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Security or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of and any premium and interest on this Security at the times, place and rate, and in the coin or currency, herein prescribed.
As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the transfer of this Security is registrable in the Security Register, upon surrender of this Security for registration of transfer at the office or agency of the Company in any place where the principal of and any premium and interest on this Security are payable, duly endorsed by, or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Security Registrar, duly executed by the Holder hereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon one or more new Securities of this series and of like tenor, of authorized denominations and for the same aggregate principal amount, will be issued to the designated transferee or transferees.
The Securities of this series are issuable only in registered form without coupons in denominations of $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof. As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, Securities of this series are exchangeable for a like aggregate principal amount of Securities of this series of a different authorized denomination, as requested by the Holder surrendering the same.
No service charge shall be made for any such registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge payable in connection therewith.
Prior to due presentment of this Security for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Person
in whose name this Security is registered as the owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this Security be overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
This Security shall for all purposes be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York.
The terms used in this Security that are defined in the Indenture shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture.

Exhibit 5.1
April 6, 2009
Dell Inc.
One Dell Way
Round Rock, Texas 78682
 
Ladies and Gentlemen:
We have acted as counsel for Dell Inc., a Delaware corporation (the ""), with respect to certain legal matters in connection with the registration by the Company under the Securities Act of 1933 (the "") of the offer and sale by the Company from time to time pursuant to Rule 415 under the Securities Act of $500,000,000 aggregate principal amount of 5.625% Notes due 2014 (the ""), pursuant to the Underwriting Agreement, dated April 1, 2009, among the Company and Banc of America Securities LLC, Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated and UBS Securities LLC, as representatives of the several underwriters identified therein (the "").
Company
Securities Act
Notes
Underwriting Agreement
The Notes were offered and sold pursuant to a prospectus supplement, dated April 1, 2009, and filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("the ") pursuant to Rule 424(b) on April 3, 2009, to a prospectus dated November 4, 2008 (such prospectus, as amended and supplemented by the prospectus supplement, the "") and included in a Registration Statement on Form S-3 (Registration No. 333-155041) (the ""), which became effective upon filing.
Commission
Prospectus
Registration Statement
The Notes are to be issued pursuant to that certain Indenture, dated April 6, 2009, between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (the ""), as trustee (the ""), as supplemented by the First Supplemental Indenture, dated April 6, 2009, between the Company and the Trustee (the "").
Trustee
Indenture
Supplemental Indenture
We have reviewed those agreements, records, documents and matters of law as we have deemed relevant in order to render the opinion set forth herein, including but not limited to (i) the Registration Statement; (ii) the Prospectus forming a part of the Registration Statement; (iii) the Restated Certificate of Incorporation and the Restated Bylaws of the
 
 
Company; (iv) resolutions adopted by the Board of Directors of the Company; (v) the Indenture; (vi) the Supplemental Indenture; and (vii) such other certificates, statutes and other instruments and documents as we considered appropriate for purposes of the opinion hereafter expressed.
As to certain questions of fact material to our opinion, we have made no independent investigation of such facts and have relied, to the extent that we deem such reliance proper, upon certificates from officers of the Company and other persons, and upon certificates of public officials.
Based upon and subject to the foregoing and subject further to the assumptions, exceptions and qualifications hereinafter stated, it is our opinion that the Notes have been duly authorized, executed and issued by the Company and, assuming that the Notes have been duly authenticated by the Trustee, constitute valid and binding obligations of the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with their terms and will be entitled to the benefits of the Indenture, as amended and supplemented by the Supplemental Indenture.
The opinion expressed above is subject in all respects to the following assumptions, exceptions and qualifications:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
We consent to the filing of this opinion of counsel as an exhibit to a Current Report on Form 8-K. We also consent to the reference to this firm under the heading "Legal Matters" in the Prospectus. In giving this consent, we do not admit that this firm is in the category of persons whose consent is required under the provisions of the Securities Act or the rules and regulations of the Commission promulgated thereunder.
We disclaim any duty to advise you regarding any changes in, or otherwise communicate with you with respect to, the matters addressed herein.
 
 


