FILE:DELL/DELL-8K-20100610165014.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
________
(Amendment No. 1)
FORM 8-K/A
CURRENT REPORT
PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
________
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported):  
June 10, 2010
________
Dell Inc.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
Registrants telephone number, including area code:
1 (800) 289-3355
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 - 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 - 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
This current report on Form 8-K/A amends the current report on Form 8-K (the Original Form 8-K) furnished by Dell Inc. on May 20, 2010.  The Original Form 8-K reported Dells issuance of a press release announcing its financial results for its fiscal quarter ended April 30, 2010.  On June 10, 2010, Dell issued a press release announcing that, as a result of ongoing discussions with the staff of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC), Dell has revised the financial results that were reported in the Original Form 8-K to record a $100 million liability for the potential settlement of the previously reported SEC investigation (the revised financial results).  Further, on June 10, 2010, Dell filed with the SEC a Notification of Late Filing on Form 12b-25 (the Notice) with respect to Dells quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended April 30, 2010 (the Form 10-Q), stating that it would not be able to timely file the Form 10-Q without unreasonable effort or expense.  Dells response set forth in the Notice under Question 3 of Part IV thereof contains information about the revised financial results.
The sole purpose of this amendment to the Original Form 8-K is to furnish the press release dated June 10, 2010 announcing the revised financial results and the Notice filed on June 10, 2010 disclosing the revised financial results.
Item 2.02  Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On June 10, 2010, Dell Inc. issued a press release announcing its revised financial results for its fiscal quarter ended April 30, 2010 (the revised financial results).  A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
To supplement Dells condensed consolidated financial statements presented on a GAAP basis furnished in Exhibit 99.1 to this report, Dell has presented information about non-GAAP gross margin, non-GAAP operating expenses, non-GAAP operating income, non-GAAP net income, and non-GAAP earnings per share (collectively, the non-GAAP financial measures), which are not measurements of financial performance under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP).  A reconciliation of each non-GAAP financial measure to the most comparable GAAP financial measure for Dells fiscal quarter ended April 30, 2010 and certain prior periods is included in the tables set forth under the heading Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures in Exhibit 99.1.  In addition, a discussion of Dell managements reasons for including these non-GAAP measures, the material limitations associated with the use of these non-GAAP measures, and the manner in which Dell management compensates for those limitations is included under Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures in Exhibit 99.1. This additional non-GAAP financial information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for net income, operating income, gross margin, operating expenses, and earnings per share prepared in accordance with GAAP.
On June 10, 2010, Dell filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission a Notification of Late Filing on Form 12b-25 (the Notice) with respect to Dells quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended April 30, 2010 (the Form 10-Q), stating that it would not be able to timely file the Form 10-Q without unreasonable effort or expense.  Dells response set forth in the Notice under Question 3 of Part IV thereof contains information about the revised financial results.  A copy of the Notice is included as Exhibit 99.2 to this report.
Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) .   
Exhibits
Exhibit 99.1 Press Release issued by Dell Inc., dated June 10, 2010.
Exhibit 99.2 Form 12b-25 of Dell Inc. filed on June 10, 2010 with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit 99.1
Dell Revises Fiscal 2011 First Quarter Results to Reflect Potential Legal Liability
ROUND ROCK, Texas--(BUSINESS WIRE)--June 10, 2010--Dell today said as a result of ongoing discussions with the staff of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), the company recorded a $100 million liability in its first quarter of Fiscal 2011 to establish a reserve for the potential settlement by the company of the previously reported SEC investigation. The settlement would involve a civil injunctive action against the company for alleged violations of certain federal securities laws, including the antifraud provisions of federal securities laws, relating to certain accounting and financial reporting matters. The settlement would also include negligence-based fraud charges, as well as other non-fraud based charges, relating to the companys disclosures and alleged omissions prior to Fiscal 2008 regarding certain aspects of its commercial relationship with Intel Corp.
In addition, the company reported that Michael Dell, Chairman and CEO, and the SEC staff have recently commenced discussion of a settlement framework relating to Mr. Dell that would resolve allegations relating to the companys disclosures and alleged omissions prior to Fiscal 2008 regarding certain aspects of the companys commercial relationship with Intel Corp. Any such settlement by Mr. Dell would involve alleged violations of negligence-based fraud provisions of the federal securities laws, as well as other non-fraud based provisions, and would not include any bar against Mr. Dells service as an officer and director of a public company. Any settlement would be made without admitting or denying the SECs allegations.
We are hopeful that these settlement discussions will achieve a comprehensive resolution in the near future. The independent directors of the Board have affirmed that Michael Dell will continue to lead the company as its Chairman and CEO, and he continues to have our complete confidence and support, said Sam Nunn, presiding director of the Dell Board.
The investigation of the company began in 2005. In response, Dell undertook an independent investigation, completed in 2007, which led to a restatement of certain historical financial reports and implementation of extensive remedial measures.
Because this latest development in Dells discussions with the SEC staff occurred before Dell filed its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for its first quarter of Fiscal 2011, the company revised its previously announced financial results and recorded a liability for the potential settlement involving the company. The Form 10-Q report for the companys first fiscal quarter was filed today.
As a result of the liability recorded, the companys net income on a GAAP basis for the first quarter of Fiscal 2011 has been reduced by $100 million, or 5 cents per share. Results on a non-GAAP basis did not change.
The following table summarizes the revised results for the first quarter of Fiscal 2011 and provides a comparison to the first quarter of Fiscal 2010:
Information about Dells use of non-GAAP financial information is provided under Non-GAAP Financial Measures below. Non-GAAP financial information excludes costs related to the amortization of purchased intangibles, severance and facility-action costs, acquisition-related charges and accruals for a potential settlement with the SEC as well as a provision for settlement of securities class-action litigation. All comparisons in this press release are year over year unless otherwise noted.
Discussions concerning the potential settlements involving the company and Mr. Dell are ongoing. No assurance can be given as to when any settlement might occur or as to the final terms and conditions of any settlement. Any settlement recommended by the SEC staff would be subject to approval by the Commission.
About Dell
Dell Inc. (NASDAQ: DELL) listens to customers and delivers worldwide innovative technology, business solutions and services they trust and value. For more information, visit .
www.dell.com
Non-GAAP Financial Measures:
This press release includes information about non-GAAP gross margin, non-GAAP operating expenses, non-GAAP operating income, non-GAAP net income, and non-GAAP earnings per share (collectively the non-GAAP financial measures), which are not measurements of financial performance prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. In the following tables, Dell has provided a reconciliation of each non-GAAP financial measure to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure under the heading Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures and has presented a detailed discussion of its reasons for including the non-GAAP financial measures and the limitations associated with those measures under the heading Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures. Dell encourages investors to review the reconciliation and the non-GAAP discussion in conjunction with Dells presentation of these non-GAAP financial measures.
Forward-Looking Statements:
Statements in this press release that relate to future results and events (including statements about a potential settlement of the SEC investigation) are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and are based on Dell's current expectations. Actual results and events in future periods may differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements because of a number of risks, uncertainties and other factors, including that Dell can give no assurance as to the ultimate outcome of the SEC investigation, when any settlement with the SEC might occur, the terms or conditions of any settlement, or the potential impact of any resolution of this matter on Dells business, as well as
the other risks and uncertainties discussed in Dells filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including its Annual Report on Form 10-K for its fiscal year ended January 29, 2010. Dell assumes no obligation to update its forward-looking statements.
Revised consolidated statements of income, financial position and cash flows and other financial data follow.
Dell is a trademark of Dell Inc.
Dell disclaims any proprietary interest in the marks and names of others.
Note: Percentage growth rates and ratios are calculated based on underlying data in thousands.
Includes the results of Perot Systems Corporation ("Perot Systems"), which was acquired on November 3, 2009, from the date of acquisition.
(1)
Includes a $100 million liability for a potential settlement of the SEC investigation and a $40 million securities litigation accrual.
(2)
Note: Ratios are calculated based on underlying data in thousands.
Days of sales outstanding (DSO) is based on the ending net trade receivables and most recent quarterly revenue for each period. DSO includes the effect of product costs related to customer shipments not yet recognized as revenue that are classified in the other current assets. At April 30, 2010, January 29, 2010, and May 1, 2009, DSO and days of customer shipments not yet recognized were 35 and 3 days, 35 and 3 days, 31 and 3 days, respectively.
(1)
Prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.
(1)
SUPPLEMENTAL NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES
The tables on the following pages set forth, for the periods indicated, a reconciliation of non-GAAP gross margin, non-GAAP operating expenses, non-GAAP operating income, non-GAAP net income, and non-GAAP earnings per share (collectively, the non-GAAP financial measures) to the most comparable GAAP financial measures. These non-GAAP financial measures may not be directly comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. See Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures following the tables for additional information regarding Dells reasons for including the non-GAAP financial measures and for material limitations with respect to the usefulness of these measures.
Note: Percentage growth rates and ratios are calculated based on underlying data in thousands.
Includes a $100 million liability for a potential settlement of the SEC investigation and a $40 million securities litigation accrual.
(1)
USE OF NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES
Dell provides non-GAAP financial information to investors to supplement GAAP financial information. Dell believes that excluding certain items from Dells GAAP results allows Dells management to better understand Dells consolidated financial performance from period to period and in relationship to the operating results of Dells segments, as management does not believe that the excluded items are reflective of underlying operating performance. The non-GAAP financial measures, as defined by Dell, represent the comparable GAAP measures adjusted to exclude acquisition related charges primarily related to our acquisition of Perot Systems in the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2010, amortization of purchased intangible assets related to acquisitions, severance and facility action costs, and accruals for a potential settlement of the SEC investigation as well as a provision for a securities litigation matter that were accrued for the first quarter of Fiscal 2011. In the future, Dell expects that it may again exclude such items and may incur expenses similar to these excluded items, including in connection with any future acquisitions. Accordingly, the exclusion of these items and other similar items in Dells non-GAAP presentation should not be interpreted as implying that these items are non-recurring, infrequent, or unusual. Dell believes the non-GAAP financial measures will provide investors with useful information to help them evaluate Dells operating results. These non-GAAP financial measures facilitate an enhanced understanding of historical results and enable more meaningful period to period comparisons.
This additional non-GAAP financial information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for gross margin, operating expenses, operating income, net income, and earnings per share prepared in accordance with GAAP.
The non-GAAP financial measures for the periods indicated in the tables above reflect adjustments related to the following items:
Acquisition-related charges are expensed as incurred and consist primarily of cash compensation payments, retention payments, integration costs, bankers fees, legal fees, and consulting fees that are primarily attributable to the acquisition of Perot Systems. The cash compensation payments include payments that were triggered by the acquisition made to Perot Systems employees who are now employed with Dell. Retention payments include stock-based compensation and cash incentives awarded to employees, which are recognized over the vesting period. Integration costs include incremental business costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition of Perot Systems and that are incurred during the integration period. These costs primarily include IT costs related to the integration of IT systems and processes, costs related to the integration of Perot Systems employees, costs related to full-time employees who are working on the integration, and consulting expenses. Acquisition-related charges are inconsistent in amount and are significantly impacted by the timing and nature of acquisitions. Therefore, although Dell may incur these types of expenses in connection with future acquisitions, Dell believes eliminating the expenses relating to the Perot Systems acquisition for purposes of calculating the non-GAAP financial measures facilitates a more meaningful evaluation of Dells current operating performance and comparisons to Dells past operating performance.
Amortization of purchased intangible assets consists primarily of amortization of customer relationships, customer lists, acquired technology, trade names, and non-compete covenants purchased in connection with business acquisitions. Dell incurs charges relating to the amortization of these intangibles, and those charges are included in Dells GAAP financial statements. Amortization charges for Dells purchased intangible assets are inconsistent in amount and are significantly impacted by the timing and magnitude of Dells acquisitions. Consequently, Dell excludes these charges for purposes of calculating the non-GAAP financial measures to facilitate a more meaningful evaluation of Dells current operating performance and comparisons to Dells past operating performance.
Severance and facility action costs primarily relate to facilities charges including accelerated depreciation and to severance and benefits for employees terminated pursuant to actions taken as part of a comprehensive review of costs. Management measures the performance of Dell excluding the effects of severance and facility action costs and has been, for recent quarters, providing the effects to investors to supplement GAAP financial information. Dell excludes these severance and facility action costs for purposes of calculating the non-GAAP financial measures because it believes that these historical costs do not reflect expected future operating expenses and do not contribute to a meaningful evaluation of Dells current operating performance or comparisons to Dells past operating performance.
For the first quarter of Fiscal 2011, Dell recorded a $100 million liability related to a potential settlement of the SEC investigation, which was initiated in 2005. Dell also accrued $40 million for a securities litigation class action lawsuit that was filed against Dell during Fiscal 2007. Dell is excluding these settlements for the purpose of calculating the non-GAAP financial measures because it believes these settlements are outside Dells ordinary course of business and do not contribute to a meaningful evaluation of Dells current operating performance.
The aggregate adjustment for income taxes is the estimated combined income tax effect for the adjustments mentioned above. The tax effects are determined based on the jurisdictions where the adjustments were incurred.
There are limitations to the use of non-GAAP financial measures. Other companies, including companies in Dells industry, may calculate the non-GAAP financial measures differently than Dell does, limiting the usefulness of those measures for comparative purposes. In addition, items such as amortization of purchased intangible assets represent the loss in value of intangible assets over time. The expense associated with this loss in value is not included in the non-GAAP financial measures and such measures, therefore, do not reflect the full economic effect of such loss. Lastly, items such as severance and facility action costs and acquisition expenses that are excluded from the non-GAAP financial measures can have a material impact on earnings. Dells management compensates for the foregoing limitations by relying primarily on Dells GAAP results and using non-GAAP financial measures only supplementally. Non-GAAP financial measures are not an alternative to GAAP financial measures and should be read only in conjunction with financial information presented on a GAAP basis. Dell provides detailed reconciliations of each non-GAAP financial measure to its most directly comparable GAAP measure within the financial information included with this press release and in other written materials that include the non-GAAP financial measures, and Dell encourages investors to review the reconciliations in conjunction with the presentation of any non-GAAP financial measures.
CONTACT: Dell Jess Blackburn, 512-728-8295 or David Frink, 512-728-2678 or Robert Williams, 512-728-7570 or Shep Dunlap, 512-723-0341 or Frank Molina, 512-723-5116
Media Contacts: 512-728-4100
jess_blackburn@dell.com
david_frink@dell.com
Investor Relations Contacts:
robert_williams@dell.com
shep_dunlap@dell.com
frank_molina@dell.com

Exhibit 99.2
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
FORM 12b-25
NOTIFICATION OF LATE FILING
If the notification relates to a portion of the filing checked above, identify the Item(s) to which the notification relates:
                                                                                                                                                               &# 160;                                                        
PART I  REGISTRANT INFORMATION
Full Name of Registrant
Dell Inc.                                                                                                                                       
Former Name if Applicable
N/A                                                                                                                                              
Address of Principal Executive Office
One Dell Way                                                                                                                              
(Street and Number)
City, State and Zip Code
Round Rock, Texas 78682                                                                                                           
PART II  RULE 12b-25(b) AND (c)
If the subject report could not be filed without unreasonable effort or expense and the registrant seeks relief pursuant to Rule 12b-25(b), the following should be completed. (Check box if appropriate.)
PART III  NARRATIVE
State below in reasonable detail why Forms 10-K, 20-F, 11-K, 10-Q,10-D, N-SAR, N-CSR, or the transition report or portion thereof, could not be filed within the prescribed time period.  (Attach extra Sheets if Needed)
Dell Inc. could not file its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended April 30, 2010 (the Form 10-Q) without unreasonable effort or expense by the due date of June 9, 2010 as a result of recent developments in the previously reported investigation by the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC investigation) . Dell required additional time to prepare the related disclosures required in its Form 10-Q as a result of developments in its ongoing discussions with the SEC staff regarding a potential settlement of the SEC investigation.
PART IV  OTHER INFORMATION
has caused this notification to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.


