FILE:DELL/DELL-8K-20100722160733.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
______________
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
______________
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported):
July 22, 2010
______________
Dell Inc.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
Registrants telephone number, including area code: 
(800) 289-3355
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 - 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 - 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 8.01 -  Other Events.
On July 22, 2010, Dell Inc. issued a press release announcing that it had reached a settlement with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) resolving the previously-reported SEC investigation into Dells disclosures and alleged omissions prior to fiscal year 2008 regarding certain aspects of its commercial relationship with Intel Corporation (Intel) and into separate accounting and financial reporting matters.  The SEC has agreed to settlements with both the company and Michael Dell, who serves as the companys Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.  The company and Mr. Dell entered into the settlements without admitting or denying the allegations in the SECs complaint, as is consistent with standard SEC practice.  The settlements with the company and Mr. Dell are subject to approval by the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia.
The SECs complaint filed with the U.S. District Court on July 22, 2010 alleges that the company engaged in disclosure and accounting practices that violated certain federal securities laws and SEC rules (including antifraud provisions) during the period from 2001 to 2006.  The complaint alleges that the companys SEC reports and other public statements during the applicable period contained materially misleading statements and omissions regarding the companys receipt of certain payments from Intel and the effect of such payments on the companys operating results.  The complaint further alleges that the company engaged in separate fraudulent and improper accounting for the applicable fiscal periods through its maintenance and use of certain reserve and accrued liability accounts.
Under its settlement, the company has consented to a permanent injunction against future violations of antifraud provisions, non-scienter (negligence) based fraud provisions and other non-fraud based provisions related to reporting, the maintenance of accurate books and records, and internal accounting controls under Section 17(a) of the Securities Act of 1933, Sections 10(b), 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rules 10b-5, 12b-20, 13a-1 and 13a-13 under the Exchange Act.  The company also has agreed to perform certain undertakings, including retaining an independent consultant, to enhance its disclosure processes, practices and controls.  In addition, the company has agreed to pay a civil monetary penalty of $100 million.  As reported in its quarterly report on Form 10-Q for its first quarter of fiscal year 2011, the company had established a reserve in that amount for the potential settlement of the SEC investigation.
The SECs allegations with respect to Mr. Dell and his settlement are limited to the alleged failure to provide adequate disclosures with respect to the companys commercial relationship with Intel prior to fiscal year 2008.  Mr. Dells settlement does not involve any of the separate accounting fraud charges being settled by the company and others.  Moreover, Mr. Dells settlement is limited to claims in which only negligence, and not fraudulent intent, is required to establish liability, as well as secondary liability claims for other non-fraud charges.
Under his settlement, Mr. Dell has consented to a permanent injunction against future violations of these negligence-based provisions and other non-fraud based provisions related to periodic reporting.  Specifically, Mr. Dell consented to be enjoined from violating Sections 17(a)(2) and (3) of the Securities Act and Rule 13a-14 under the Exchange Act and from aiding and abetting violations of Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1 and 13a-13 under the Exchange Act.  In addition, Mr. Dell has agreed to pay a civil monetary penalty of $4 million.  The settlement does not include any restrictions on Mr. Dells continued service as an officer or director of the company.
The independent directors of the Board of Directors unanimously have determined that it is in the best interests of the company and its stockholders that Mr. Dell continue to serve as the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the company.  
As previously reported, the companys Audit Committee, on the recommendation of management and in consultation with PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, the companys independent registered public accounting firm, initiated an independent investigation, which was completed in the third quarter of fiscal year 2008, into certain accounting and financial reporting matters.  The company subsequently restated its annual and interim financial statements for fiscal years 2003, 2004, 2005 and 2006 and the first quarter of fiscal year 2007.  The company also has implemented a number of other remedial actions and internal control enhancements, as previously described in its SEC reports.  
The SECs complaint also alleges violations by certain former executives of the company of federal securities laws and SEC rules in connection with the foregoing matters.
A copy of the press release is filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report.
Item 9.01 -  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Dell hereby files the following document as an exhibit to this Current Report:
(d) Exhibits.  
Exhibit 99.1 Press Release issued by Dell Inc., dated July 22, 2010.
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit 99.1
Dell Reaches Settlement with Securities and Exchange Commission
ROUND ROCK, Texas--(BUSINESS WIRE)--July 22, 2010--Dell Inc. today announced that it has reached a settlement with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) resolving the previously disclosed SEC investigation into Dells disclosures and alleged omissions prior to Fiscal 2008 regarding certain aspects of its commercial relationship with Intel Corporation and into separate accounting and financial reporting matters. The settlement terms are consistent with the settlement framework disclosed by the company on June 10, 2010.
The SEC has agreed to settlements with both the company and Michael Dell, the companys chairman and CEO. The company and Mr. Dell entered into the settlements without admitting or denying the allegations in the SECs complaint, as is consistent with standard SEC practice. The settlements with the company and Mr. Dell are subject to approval by a U.S. District Court.
The SECs complaint filed with the U.S. District Court today alleges that the company engaged in disclosure and accounting practices that violated certain federal securities laws and SEC rules (including antifraud provisions) during the period from 2001 to 2006. Under its settlement, the company has consented to a permanent injunction against future violations of such federal securities laws and SEC rules. The company also has agreed to perform certain undertakings, including retaining an independent consultant, to enhance its disclosure processes, practices and controls.
The companys settlement requires it to pay a civil monetary penalty of $100 million. As announced in June, in its first quarter of Fiscal 2011 the company established a reserve in that amount for the potential settlement of the SEC investigation.
The SECs allegations with respect to Mr. Dell and his settlement are limited to the alleged failure to provide adequate disclosures with respect to the companys commercial relationship with Intel prior to Fiscal 2008. Mr. Dells settlement does not involve any of the separate accounting fraud charges being settled by the company and others. Moreover, Mr. Dells settlement is limited to claims in which only negligence, and not fraudulent intent, is required to establish liability, as well as secondary liability claims for other non-fraud charges.
Under his settlement, Mr. Dell has consented to a permanent injunction against future violations of these negligence-based provisions and other non-fraud based provisions of certain federal securities laws and SEC rules. In addition, Mr. Dell has agreed to pay a civil monetary penalty of $4 million. The settlement does not include any restrictions on Mr. Dells continued service as an officer or director of the company.
Sam Nunn, presiding director of the Dell Board, said, The Board believes that this settlement is in the best interest of the company, its customers and its shareholders, as it brings a five-year SEC investigation to closure. Dells Board reaffirms its unanimous support for Michael Dells continued leadership, and the management team in its ongoing commitment to transparent accounting, integrity in financial reporting and strong corporate governance."
Mr. Dell said, We are pleased to have resolved this matter. We are committed to maintaining clear and accurate reporting of our periodic results, supporting our customers, and executing our growth strategy.
More information about the settlement can be found in Dells current report on Form 8-K filed today with the SEC and at .
www.dell.com/investor
About Dell
Dell Inc. (NASDAQ: DELL) listens to customers and delivers worldwide innovative technology, business solutions and services they trust and value. For more information, visit .
www.dell.com
Forward-looking Statements
Statements in this release that relate to future results and events (including statements about the settlement of the SEC investigation) are forward-looking statements and are based on Dell's current expectations. Actual results and events in future periods may differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements because of a number of risks, uncertainties and other factors, including that Dell can give no assurance as to U.S. District Court approval of the settlement of the SEC investigation or the potential impact of any resolution of this matter on Dells business, as well as the other risks and uncertainties discussed in Dells filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including its Annual Report on Form 10-K for its fiscal year ended January 29, 2010. Dell assumes no obligation to update its forward-looking statements.
Dell is a trademark of Dell Inc.
Dell disclaims any proprietary interest in the marks and names of others.
CONTACT: Dell David Frink, 512-728-2678 or Jess Blackburn 512-728-8295 or Robert Williams 512-728-7570 or Shep Dunlap 512-723-0341 or Frank Molina 512-723-5116
Media Contacts: 512-728-4100
david_frink@dell.com
jess_blackburn@dell.com
Investor Relations Contacts:
robert_williams@dell.com
shep_dunlap@dell.com
frank_molina@dell.com


