FILE:DELL/DELL-8K-20101118161937.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, DC 20549
________
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
________
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported):  
November 18, 2010
________
Dell Inc.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
Registrants telephone number, including area code:
(800) 289-3355
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 - 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 - 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 2.02  Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On November 18, 2010, Dell Inc. issued a press release announcing its financial results for its fiscal quarter ended October 29, 2010. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
To supplement Dells condensed consolidated financial statements presented on a GAAP basis furnished in Exhibit 99.1 to this report, Dell has presented information about non-GAAP gross margin, non-GAAP operating expenses, non-GAAP operating income, non-GAAP net income, and non-GAAP earnings per share (collectively, the non-GAAP financial measures), which are not measurements of financial performance under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP). A reconciliation of each historical non-GAAP financial measure to the most comparable GAAP financial measure for Dells fiscal quarter ended October 29, 2010 and certain prior periods is included in the tables set forth under the heading Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures in Exhibit 99.1. In addition, a discussion of Dell managements reasons for including these non-GAAP measures, the material limitations associated with the use of these non-GAAP measures, and the manner in which Dell management compensates for those limitations is included under Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures in Exhibit 99.1. This additional non-GAAP financial information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for net income, operating income, gross margin, operating expenses, and earnings per share prepared in accordance with GAAP.
In accordance with general instruction B.2 to Form 8-K, the information contained in this current report, including Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto, is being furnished and not filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities under such section. Furthermore, such information shall not be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, unless specifically identified as being incorporated therein by reference.
Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Dell herewith files the following documents as exhibits to this report:
(d)  Exhibits
- 2 -
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
- 3 -
EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit 99.1
Dell Reports Record Third Quarter Earnings
Revenue for commercial enterprise products and services up 33 percent
Operating margin of 6.7 percent on a GAAP basis
Strong cash flow generation of $913 million; nearly $4 billion over the last four quarters
ROUND ROCK, Texas--(BUSINESS WIRE)--November 18, 2010--Global demand for all commercial products and services and solid supply-chain execution led to strong operating income for Dell in its third fiscal quarter, with GAAP operating income of $1.02 billion and record earnings per share of 42 cents. On a non-GAAP basis, operating income was $1.17 billion, or 45 cents per share.
The robust profit results came on a 19 percent increase in revenue to $15.4 billion, as commercial and enterprise sectors continue to be solid. Year to date, the companys revenue has grown 21 percent to $45.8 billion.
Fiscal-Year 2011 Third Quarter Highlights
Information about Dells use of non-GAAP financial information is provided under Non-GAAP Financial Measures below. Non-GAAP financial information excludes costs related primarily to the amortization of purchased intangibles, severance and facility-action costs, a merger termination fee, certain settlement costs and acquisition-related charges. All comparisons in this press release are year over year unless otherwise noted.
Results
in the quarter grew 19 percent and is up 21 percent year to date.
Revenue
was $1.02 billion, 6.7 percent of revenue. was $1.17 billion, 7.6 percent of revenue.
GAAP operating income
Non-GAAP operating income
was $913 million, and Dell ended the quarter with $14 billion in cash and investments.
Cash flow from operations
Strategic Progress:
Strong operating leverage across all led to record profitability, with operating income at 10 percent of revenue. Revenue for the commercial business was $12.4 billion, up 24 percent.
commercial business segments
Enterprise solutions and services revenue, which includes Perot Systems, was up 31 percent. The companys EqualLogic storage business grew 66 percent.
Business Units and Regions:
revenue was $4.3 billion,up 27 percent from a year ago. Operating income was $400 million, or 9.2 percent of revenue. Enterprise solutions and services revenue was $1.7 billion, a 25 percent increase, and client revenue increased 38 percent. Dell introduced its new virtual integrated system (VIS) architecture and services that help customers transition new and existing technologies to open, cloud-like models that dynamically provision application workloads, and unify heterogeneous data center assets into a more efficient common pool of resources.
Large Enterprise
revenue was $4.4 billion, a 20 percent increase (including the integration of Perot). Operating income for the quarter was $451 million, 10.2 percent of revenue. State and local government business in the U.S. represents approximately 9 percent of the total Public business, less than 3 percent of Dell revenue, and was up 5 percent in the third quarter. Dell built on its leadership as the No. 1 technology provider to the health care industry with key customer engagements at and in China, , to implement Electronic Medical Record (EMR) systems and diagnostic image transfers that help improve productivity and reduce operating costs.
Public
The
Methodist Hospital in Houston,
Western Maryland Health Systems,
Shanghais Songjiang Hospital
revenue was $3.7 billion, up 24 percent. Profitability was at a record high, with operating income at $391 million, 10.7 percent of revenue, up 39 percent from last year. In the quarter, Dell introduced new PowerEdge servers, PowerVault storage, and PowerConnect networking solutions that help small and medium businesses affordably update technology infrastructures with easy integration, minimal downtime and the ability to scale.
Small and Medium Business
revenue was $3 billion, a 4 percent increase. The segment improved to break-even operating income in the quarter, despite muted consumer demand. Dell introduced a new family of XPS laptops in the third quarter, featuring exceptional sound, video and 3D-capabilities. The company streamlined its Consumer offerings to three brands: Inspiron, XPS and Alienware during the quarter.
Consumer
revenue grew 29 percent, EMEA increased 15 percent and the were up 18 percent. Revenue in Brazil, Russia, India and China (BRIC) grew 30 percent overall, led by a 55 percent increase in India. The company continues to expand its presence in these important countries, which now represent 13 percent of total company revenue.
Asia-Pacific and Japan
Americas
Quotes:
Our strong results demonstrate that we are listening to customers and delivering what they want. It validates that our strategy to offer choice and efficiency at every level of the IT enterprise computing stack is taking hold, and we are more focused than ever to being a true partner  not merely a provider  to our customers. Dell is growing in the right areas, and Im very excited about our momentum.
Michael Dell, chairman of the board and chief executive officer:
Our teams delivered outstanding results in the quarter. With solid demand in our commercial segments, we executed well and that led to record profitability for the company and especially in our important enterprise solutions and services business. We are pleased with our year-to-date revenue growth of 21 percent and non-GAAP operating margin of more than 6 percent. These results position us well for a very good financial year, and we remain focused on our commitment to deliver balanced revenue and operating income growth along with solid cash flow generation.
Brian Gladden, chief financial officer:
Company Outlook:
The company expects to see continued strength from the ongoing client refresh among large corporate accounts and strong growth in enterprise products and services. Fourth quarter revenue is expected to track in-line to slightly up from the third quarter as commercial demand remains stable while consumer demand remains more muted. The company expects full-year revenue to track toward the mid-point of the 14-to-19 percent range set earlier in the year and non-GAAP operating income growth to be between 28 and 32 percent.
About Dell
Dell Inc. (NASDAQ: DELL) listens to customers and delivers worldwide innovative technology, business solutions and services they trust and value. For more information, visit . The third-quarter analyst call with Michael Dell, chairman and CEO; Brian Gladden, CFO; and, Steve Felice, senior vice president, Consumer and SMB business unit, will be webcast live today at 4:00 CST and archived at . To monitor highlighted facts from the analyst call, follow on the Dell Investor Relations Twitter account at: . To communicate directly with Dell, go to .
www.dell.com
www.dell.com/investor
http://twitter.com/dellshares
www.dell.com/dellshares
Non-GAAP Financial Measures:
This press release includes information about non-GAAP gross margin, non-GAAP operating expenses, non-GAAP operating income, non-GAAP net income, and non-GAAP earnings per share (collectively the non-GAAP financial measures), which are not measurements of financial performance prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. In the following tables, Dell has provided a reconciliation of each historical non-GAAP financial measure to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure under the heading Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures and has presented a detailed discussion of its reasons for including the non-GAAP financial measures and the limitations associated with those measures under the heading Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures. Dell encourages investors to review the reconciliation and the non-GAAP discussion in conjunction with Dells presentation of these non-GAAP financial measures.
Special Note
:
Statements in this press release that relate to future results and events (including statements about Dells future financial and operating performance, anticipated customer demand, including seasonal trends and client refresh timing and scope, enterprise solutions strategies, component costs, cost controls, retail agreements, channels, supply chain improvements, and new products, as well as the financial guidance with respect to revenue and non-GAAP operating income) are forward-looking statements and are based on Dell's current expectations. In some cases, you can identify these statements by such forward-looking words as anticipate, believe, could, estimate, expect, intend, confidence, may, plan, potential, should, will and would, or similar expressions. Actual results and events in future periods may differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements because of a number of risks, uncertainties and other factors, including:
weak global economic conditions and instability in financial markets; weak economic conditions and additional regulation affecting Dells financial services activities; intense competition; Dells cost-cutting measures; Dells ability to effectively manage periodic product and services transitions; Dells ability to effectively manage the growth of its distribution capabilities and add to its product and services offerings; Dells ability to achieve favorable pricing from its vendors; Dells reliance on third-party suppliers for product components, including reliance on several single-sourced or limited-sourced suppliers; disruptions in component or product availability; successful implementation of Dells acquisition strategy; Dells ability to generate substantial non-U.S. net revenue; Dells product, customer, and geographic sales mix, and seasonal sales trends; Dells ability to access the capital markets; loss of government contracts; customer terminations of or pricing changes in services contracts, or Dells failure to perform as it anticipates at the time it enters into services contracts; Dells ability to hedge effectively its exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates; counterparty default; unfavorable results of legal proceedings; Dells ability to obtain licenses to intellectual property developed by others on commercially reasonable and competitive terms; expiration of tax holidays or favorable tax rate structures, or unfavorable outcomes in tax audits and other compliance matters; Dells ability to maintain strong internal controls; changing environmental and safety laws; the effect of armed hostilities, terrorism, natural disasters, and public health issues; information technology and manufacturing infrastructure disruptions or breaches of data security; Dells ability to attract, retain, and motivate key personnel; the risk of temporary suspension or debarment from contracting with U.S. federal, state and local governments as a result of settlements of an SEC investigation by Dell and Dells Chairman and CEO; and other risks and uncertainties discussed in Dells filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including its Annual Report on Form 10-K for its fiscal year ended January 29, 2010 and its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended July 30, 2010. In particular, Dells expectations with regard to revenue and non-GAAP operating income for the full fiscal year ending January 28, 2011 assume, among other matters, that there is no significant decline in economic conditions generally or demand growth specifically, no significant adverse currency fluctuations which are unhedged, and no significant adverse component pricing or supply movements. Dell assumes no obligation to update its forward-looking statements.
Consolidated statements of income, financial position and cash flows and other financial data follow.
Dell, PowerEdge, PowerVault, PowerConnect, Inspiron, XPS and Alienware are trademarks of Dell Inc.
Dell disclaims any proprietary interest in the marks and names of others.
SUPPLEMENTAL NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES
The tables on the following pages set forth, for the periods indicated, a reconciliation of non-GAAP gross margin, non-GAAP operating expenses, non-GAAP operating income, non-GAAP net income, and non-GAAP earnings per share (collectively, the non-GAAP financial measures) to the most comparable GAAP financial measures. These non-GAAP financial measures may not be directly comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. See Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures following the tables for additional information regarding Dells reasons for including the non-GAAP financial measures and for material limitations with respect to the usefulness of these measures.
USE OF NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES
Dell provides non-GAAP financial information to investors to supplement GAAP financial information. Dell believes that excluding certain items from Dells GAAP results allows Dells management to better understand Dells consolidated financial performance from period to period and in relationship to the operating results of Dells segments, as management does not believe that the excluded items are reflective of underlying operating performance. Dell also believes that excluding certain items from Dells GAAP results allows Dells management to better project Dells future consolidated financial performance because Dells forecasts are developed at a level of detail different than that used to prepare GAAP-based financial measures, and exclude certain amounts pertaining to events that have not yet occurred and are not currently possible to estimate with a reasonable degree of accuracy. Non-GAAP operating income growth as projected for Fiscal 2011, which is a forward looking non-GAAP financial measure, excludes the following items, some of which Dell cannot forecast, thereby preventing Dell from reconciling its projections to GAAP: acquisition related charges, amortization of purchased intangible assets related to acquisitions, severance and facility action costs, a merger termination fee that was received during the third quarter of Fiscal 2011, and amounts for the settlement of the SEC investigation as well as a securities litigation matter that were incurred during the first quarter of Fiscal 2011. The historical non-GAAP financial measures, as defined by Dell, represent the comparable GAAP measures adjusted to exclude these same items. In the future, Dell expects that it may again exclude such items and may incur income and expenses similar to these excluded items, including in connection with any future acquisitions. Accordingly, the exclusion of these items and other similar items in Dells non-GAAP presentation should not be interpreted as implying that these items are non-recurring, infrequent, or unusual. Dell believes the non-GAAP financial measures will provide investors with useful information to help them evaluate Dells operating results and projections. These non-GAAP financial measures facilitate an enhanced understanding of historical results and projections, and enable more meaningful period to period comparisons.
This additional non-GAAP financial information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for gross margin, operating expenses, operating income, net income, and earnings per share prepared in accordance with GAAP.
The non-GAAP financial measures for the periods indicated in the tables above reflect adjustments related to the following items:
Acquisition-related charges are expensed as incurred and consist primarily of retention payments, integration costs, bankers fees, legal fees, and consulting fees. Retention payments include stock-based compensation and cash incentives awarded to employees, which are recognized over the vesting period. Integration costs include incremental business costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition of Perot Systems during the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2010 and are being incurred during the integration period. These costs primarily include IT costs related to the integration of IT systems and processes, costs related to the integration of Perot Systems employees, costs related to full-time employees who are working on the integration, and consulting expenses. Acquisition-related charges are inconsistent in amount and are significantly impacted by the timing and nature of acquisitions. Therefore, although Dell may incur these types of expenses in connection with future acquisitions, Dell believes eliminating acquisition related charges for purposes of calculating the non-GAAP financial measures facilitates a more meaningful evaluation of Dells current operating performance and comparisons to Dells past operating performance.
Amortization of purchased intangible assets consists primarily of amortization of customer relationships, customer lists, acquired technology, trade names, and non-compete covenants purchased in connection with business acquisitions. Dell incurs charges relating to the amortization of these intangibles, and those charges are included in Dells GAAP financial statements. Amortization charges for Dells purchased intangible assets are inconsistent in amount and are significantly impacted by the timing and magnitude of Dells acquisitions. Consequently, Dell excludes these charges for purposes of calculating the non-GAAP financial measures to facilitate a more meaningful evaluation of Dells current operating performance and comparisons to Dells past operating performance.
Severance and facility action costs primarily relate to facilities charges including accelerated depreciation and severance and benefits for employees terminated pursuant to actions taken as part of a comprehensive review of costs, including certain employee cost synergies realized through our strategic acquisitions. Management measures the performance of Dell excluding the effects of severance and facility action costs and has been, for recent quarters, providing the effects to investors to supplement GAAP financial information. Dell excludes these severance and facility action costs for purposes of calculating the non-GAAP financial measures because it believes that these historical costs do not reflect expected future operating expenses and do not contribute to a meaningful evaluation of Dells current operating performance or comparisons to Dells past operating performance.
Dell also adjusts its GAAP results for certain fees and settlements. During the third quarter of Fiscal 2011, Dell received $72 million from 3PAR Inc (3PAR) for 3PARs termination of its merger agreement with Dell. For the first quarter of Fiscal 2011, Dell recorded a $100 million settlement amount for the SEC investigation into certain of Dell's accounting and financial matters, which was initiated in 2005. Also during the first quarter of Fiscal 2011, Dell incurred $40 million for a securities litigation class action lawsuit that was filed against Dell during Fiscal 2007. Dell is excluding these fees and settlements from the operating results of the first nine months of Fiscal 2011 for the purpose of calculating the non-GAAP financial measures because it believes these fees and settlements are outside Dells ordinary course of business and do not contribute to a meaningful evaluation of Dells current operating performance.
The aggregate adjustment for income taxes is the estimated combined income tax effect for the adjustments mentioned above. The tax effects are determined based on the jurisdictions where the adjustments were incurred.
There are limitations to the use of non-GAAP financial measures. Other companies, including companies in Dells industry, may calculate the non-GAAP financial measures differently than Dell does, limiting the usefulness of those measures for comparative purposes. In addition, items such as amortization of purchased intangible assets represent the loss in value of intangible assets over time. The expense associated with this loss in value is not included in the non-GAAP financial measures and such measures, therefore, do not reflect the full economic effect of such loss. Lastly, items such as severance and facility action costs and acquisition expenses that are excluded from the non-GAAP financial measures can have a material impact on earnings. Dells management compensates for the foregoing limitations by relying primarily on Dells GAAP results and using non-GAAP financial measures only supplementally or for projections when comparable GAAP measures are not available. Non-GAAP financial measures are not an alternative to GAAP financial measures and should be read only in conjunction with financial information presented on a GAAP basis when available. Dell provides detailed reconciliations of each historical non-GAAP financial measure to its most directly comparable GAAP measure within the financial information included with this press release and in other written materials that include such non-GAAP historical financial measures, and Dell encourages investors to review the reconciliations in conjunction with the presentation of any historical non-GAAP financial measures.
CONTACT: Dell Jess Blackburn, 512-728-8295 or David Frink, 512-728-2678 or Robert Williams, 512-728-7570 or Shep Dunlap, 512-723-0341 or Frank Molina, 512-723-5116
Media: 512-728-4100
jess_blackburn@dell.com
david_frink@dell.com
Investor Relations:
robert_williams@dell.com
shep_dunlap@dell.com
frank_molina@dell.com


