FILE:DELL/DELL-8K-20100218161706.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
________
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
________
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported):  
February 18, 2010
________
Dell Inc.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
Registrants telephone number, including area code:
(512) 338-4400
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 - 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 - 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 2.02  Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On February 18, 2010, Dell Inc. issued a press release announcing its financial results for its fiscal quarter ended, January 29, 2010.  A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
To supplement Dells condensed consolidated financial statements presented on a GAAP basis furnished in Exhibit 99.1 to this report, Dell has presented information about non-GAAP gross margin, non-GAAP operating expenses, non-GAAP operating income, non-GAAP net income, and non-GAAP earnings per share (collectively, the non-GAAP financial measures), which are not measurements of financial performance under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP).  A reconciliation of each non-GAAP financial measure to the most comparable GAAP financial measure for Dells fiscal quarter and fiscal year ended January 29, 2010 and certain prior periods is included in the tables set forth under the heading Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures in Exhibit 99.1.  In addition, a discussion of Dell managements reasons for including these non-GAAP measures, the material limitations associated with the use of these non-GAAP measures, and the manner in which Dell management compensates for those limitations is included under Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures in Exhibit 99.1. This additional non-GAAP financial information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for net income, operating income, gross margin, operating expenses, and earnings per share prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) .  
Exhibits
Exhibit 99.1 Press Release issued by Dell Inc., dated February 18, 2010.
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit 99.1
Strength in Commercial Business, Led by Growth in Enterprise Technology, Drives Solid Dell Revenue Increase and Cash Flow in Fourth Quarter
Revenue, product shipments and operating income up at double-digit rates year over year
Cash flow from operations totals $1.3 billion for the quarter, $3.9 billion for the year
EPS 17 cents per share on a GAAP basis, 28 cents non-GAAP
ROUND ROCK, Texas--(BUSINESS WIRE)--February 18, 2010--Commercial customers attracted to Dells powerful and practical technology, especially enterprise IT solutions, helped account for the companys solid fiscal fourth-quarter revenue growth and strong cash flow from operations.
Fiscal-Year 2010 Fourth-Quarter Highlights
in the quarter ended Jan. 29 was $14.9 billion, an 11-percent increase from a year ago and a 16-percent sequential gain. Revenue improved in all of Dells business segments as the company consolidated results from the former Perot Systems for the first time.
Total revenue
from operations was $1.3 billion for the quarter, $3.9 billion for the full fiscal year. Dell ended the quarter in which it completed the acquisition of Perot Systems with $11.8 billion in cash and investments.
Cash flow
increased 16 percent (11 percent sequentially), led by an 18-percent rise in Dells Small and Medium Business unit and a 29-percent increase in Consumer. Notebook shipments were up 32 percent year-over-year.
Product shipments
Information about Dells use of non-GAAP financial information is provided under Non-GAAP Financial Measures below. Non-GAAP financial information excludes costs related primarily to the amortization of purchased intangibles, severance and facility-action costs, and acquisition-related charges. All comparisons in this press release are year over year unless otherwise noted.
Results
was 16.6 percent of revenue. was17.4 percent of revenue, pressured by seasonal strength in consumer demand, which has lower margins.
GAAP gross margin
Non-GAAP gross margin
were 13.2 percent of revenue. were 12.1 percent of revenue, or $1.8 billion, compared with 12.8 percent a year ago, the result of continued sharp attention to cost structure and operational execution.
GAAP operating expenses
Non-GAAP operating expenses
was $510 million, or 3.4 percent of revenue. increased 11 percent to $798 million, or 5.4 percent of revenue.
GAAP operating income
Non-GAAP operating income
Strategic Progress:
Dell delivers comprehensive, easy-to-configure, end-to-end solutions comprising state-of-the-art servers, storage systems, networking products, software and management tools. Dells approach is distinctly different from those of other companies, whose often proprietary, closed technology is more likely to benefit the supplier than the customer.
Dells open, capable and affordable enterprise solutions produced a 26-percent increase in server revenue in the quarter. The companys easy-to-deploy and easy-to-manage EqualLogic storage solutions continue to be well received by customers, with revenue from that line up 44 percent. Overall storage revenue was down from a year ago, but up 18 percent sequentially, as the company emphasizes higher-value storage technology.
Company revenue from services increased 51 percent, mostly because of new capabilities associated with the Q4 acquisition of Perot Systems. The expanded Dell Services is providing a streamlined range of practical solutions that enable customers to get more out of their IT investments. Dell services and solutions are tailored to make them relevant for businesses and organizations of all sizes.
Total revenue from commercial customers grew 11 percent (13 percent sequentially) as all segments saw improving demand. Sales of enterprise systems were up 17 percent sequentially.
Combined sales in rapidly growing economies were up strongly. In the BRIC countries (Brazil, Russia, India and China), revenue increased 72 percent81 percent in China, led by SMB and Large Enterprise.
Business Units:
revenue was $4.2 billion,up 8 percent (23 percent sequentially). Operating income for the quarter was $281 million, an 8-percent improvement. Operating income as a percent of revenue was up 1.6 points sequentially.
Large Enterprise
revenue was $3.8 billion, an increase of 16 percent3 percent without Perot Systems. Revenue from services more than doubled, reflecting the strong standing of solutions from the former Perot Systems with government and healthcare customers. Public operating income was $333 million, up 15 percent.
Public
revenue was $3.3 billion, up 10 percent, driven by stronger sales of mobile products and servers. Shipments rose 18 percent. Operating income was $282 million, 18 percent higher.
Small and Medium Business
revenue was $3.5 billion, an 11-percent increase. Revenue for consumer mobility products was up 26 percent. Shipments increased 29 percent (23 percent sequentially). Operating income was $9 million. During the course of the year, Dell significantly expanded its consumer product portfolio and worldwide customer reach through retailers, contributing to FY10 product shipments that were 2 million units higher than in the previous year.
Consumer
Quotes:
Our solutions portfolio is expanding rapidly, driven by our strong capabilities, ongoing innovation and smart acquisitions. We continue to listen to and engage closely with customers through millions of conversations and interactions each day, enabling Dell to provide more relevant, value-oriented solutions to help meet their unique needs.
Michael Dell, chairman of the board and chief executive officer:
We achieved solid revenue growth in every part of our business. Our commercial units are well poised for profitable growth as demand continues to return because were meeting customer requirements for higher-value, higher-margin servers, storage systems and services. For the full year, we generated $3.9 billion of cash flow from operations  more than twice the amount in the prior year.
Brian Gladden, chief financial officer:
Company Outlook:
Dell saw demand in the important commercial business continuing to return during the fourth quarter and is cautiously optimistic that this trend will continue into fiscal-year 2011. The company is confident in its ability to deliver the right technology to commercial customers and believes its extensive and ongoing cost actions position it well for this environment of increased demand. Longer term, the company is confident it can generate growth in revenue, operating-income margin and cash flow from operations.
About Dell
Dell Inc. (NASDAQ: DELL) helps customers succeed by understanding their issues and needs and delivering innovative, high-value IT solutions. For more information, visit . To hear a replay of the fourth-quarter analyst call with Michael Dell, chairman and CEO, and Brian Gladden, CFO, go to . To communicate directly with Dell, go to .
www.dell.com
www.dell.com/investors
www.dell.com/dellshares
Non-GAAP Financial Measures:
This press release includes information about non-GAAP gross margin, non-GAAP operating expenses, non-GAAP operating income, non-GAAP net income, and non-GAAP earnings per share (collectively the non-GAAP financial measures), which are not measurements of financial performance prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Dell has provided a reconciliation of each non-GAAP financial measure to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure under the heading Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures and a detailed discussion of our reasons for including the non-GAAP financial measures and the limitations associated with those measures under the heading Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures. Dell encourages investors to review the reconciliation and the non-GAAP discussion in conjunction with our presentation of these non-GAAP financial measures.
Special Note:
Statements in this press release that relate to future results and events (including statements about our future financial and operating performance, anticipated component costs, and future customer demand) are forward-looking statements based on Dell's current expectations. Actual results and events in future periods may differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements because of a number of risks, uncertainties and other factors, including: weak global economic conditions and continuing instability in financial markets; Dells ability to re-establish a cost advantage over its competitors; its ability to generate substantial non-U.S. net revenue; its ability to accurately predict product, customer and geographic sales mix and seasonal sales trends; information technology and manufacturing infrastructure failures and breaches in data security; its ability to effectively manage periodic product transitions; disruptions in component or product availability; its reliance on vendors for quality products and components, including reliance on several single-source or limited-source suppliers; its ability to access the capital markets; risks relating to its internal controls; potential unfavorable outcomes of tax matters and legal proceedings, including the continuing SEC investigation into certain accounting and financial reporting matters; its acquisition of other companies; its ability to properly manage the distribution of its products and services; the success of its cost-cutting measures; effective hedging of its exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates; counterparty default risks; obtaining licenses to intellectual property developed by others on commercially reasonable and competitive terms; its ability to attract, retain and motivate key personnel; loss of government contracts; expiration of tax holidays or favorable tax rate structures; changing environmental laws; and the effect of armed hostilities, terrorism, natural disasters and public health issues. For a discussion of those and other factors affecting its business and prospects, see Dells periodic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Dell assumes no obligation to update forward-looking statements.
Consolidated statements of income, financial position and cash flows follow.
Dell is a trademark of Dell Inc.
Dell disclaims any proprietary interest in the marks and names of others.
CONTACT: 512-728-4100 or Jess Blackburn, 512-728-8295 or David Frink, 512-728-2678 or Robert Williams, 512-728-7570 or Shep Dunlap, 512-723-0341
Dell
Media Contacts:
jess_blackburn@dell.com
david_frink@dell.com
Investor Relations Contacts:
robert_williams@dell.com
shep_dunlap@dell.com


