FILE:DELL/DELL-8K-20101216170053.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Effective December 13, 2010, Brian T. Gladden, Dell's Chief Financial Officer, adopted a prearranged trading plan (the "Plan") to sell shares of Dell's common stock. The Plan was designed to comply with Rule 10b5-1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), and Dell's policies regarding stock transactions. Under Rule 10b5-1, directors, officers and other persons who are not in possession of material non-public information may adopt a prearranged plan or contract for the sale of the registrant's securities under specified conditions and at specified times to achieve prudent and gradual asset diversification over time.
Mr. Gladden informed Dell that the stock sales to be effected pursuant to the Plan are part of his personal program for long-term asset diversification and tax and financial planning. The Plan will not reduce Mr. Gladden's ownership of Dell's shares below Dell's applicable stock ownership guidelines.
The Plan provides that Mr. Gladden will sell 192,000 shares during specific periods occurring from March 2, 2011 through December 30, 2011. Shares will be sold under the Plan in the open market at prevailing market prices. All stock sales under the Plan will be disclosed publicly in accordance with applicable securities laws, rules and regulations through appropriate filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
The information in this Item 7.01 of Dell's Current Report on Form 8-K shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, unless such subsequent filing specifically references this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.


