FILE:DELL/DELL-8K-20110816160907.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, DC 20549
________
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
________
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported):  August 16, 2011
________
Dell Inc.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
Registrants telephone number, including area code:
(800) 289-3355
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 - 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 - 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 2.02  Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On August 16, 2011, Dell Inc. (Dell) issued a press release announcing its financial results for its fiscal quarter ended July 29, 2011. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
To supplement Dells condensed consolidated financial statements presented on the basis of accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP) which are furnished in Exhibit 99.1 to this report, Dell has presented information about non-GAAP gross margin, non-GAAP operating expenses, non-GAAP operating income, non-GAAP net income, and non-GAAP earnings per share (collectively, the non-GAAP financial measures), which are not measurements of financial performance under GAAP. A reconciliation of each historical non-GAAP financial measure to the most comparable GAAP financial measure for Dells fiscal quarter ended July 29, 2011 and certain prior fiscal periods is included in the tables set forth under the heading Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures in Exhibit 99.1. In addition, a discussion of Dell managements reasons for including the non-GAAP financial measures, the material limitations associated with the use of the non-GAAP financial measures, and the manner in which Dell management compensates for those limitations is included under Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures in Exhibit 99.1. This additional non-GAAP financial information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for net income, operating income, gross margin, operating expenses, and earnings per share prepared in accordance with GAAP.
In accordance with General Instruction B.2 to Form 8-K, the information contained in this current report, including Exhibit 99.1 hereto, is being furnished with the Securities and Exchange Commission and shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities under such section. Furthermore, such information shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, unless specifically identified as being incorporated therein by reference.
Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Dell herewith furnishes the following document as an exhibit to this report:
(d)  Exhibits
- 2 -
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
- 3 -
EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit 99.1
Dell Reports Strong Second Quarter Financial Results Driven by Enterprise Solutions and Services
Enterprise solutions and services revenue up 4 percent to $4.6 billion
Operating income for the first half of FY12 up more than 50 percent
Earnings per share of 48 cents (GAAP) and 54 cents (non-GAAP) up 71 and 69 percent, respectively
Cash flow from operations in the quarter a record $2.4 billion, more than $5.2 billion for last four quarters
ROUND ROCK, Texas--(BUSINESS WIRE)--August 16, 2011--Dells investment in differentiated enterprise solutions and services continued to drive substantial gains in the companys profitability in the fiscal second quarter as operating income rose significantly on a 1 percent revenue increase.
Dells mid-market design focus on next-generation computing solutions and intelligent data management; services, security and cloud; and end-user computing is driving the shift in the companys mix to a higher-value portfolio and resulting in sustainable, improved results. The companys GAAP operating income of 7.7 percent of revenue year to date and 7.3 percent of revenue over the past four quarters is in line with its long-term value creation framework goal of more than 7 percent.
Growth in enterprise businesses highlighted the quarter. Solid demand for Dells server, storage and services portfolio reflects increasing customer preference for the companys highly capable, affordable and flexible solutions and services. Dell continues to make prudent investments to develop and acquire industry-leading systems management, storage, security and networking intellectual property. Dell is also increasing investment levels in sales and go-to-market capabilities. These investments contributed to the solid operating income and strong cash-flow generation in the quarter and first half.
Results:
in the quarter was $15.7 billion, up 1 percent over last year and 4 percent sequentially.
Revenue
was 48 cents, up 71 percent; was 54 cents, up 69 percent. Vendor settlements resulted in approximately $70 million in benefit in the quarter that increased non-GAAP gross margins 50 basis points and non-GAAP earnings per share by 4 cents.
GAAP earnings per share
non-GAAP EPS
was $1.1 billion, or 7.3 percent of revenue. was $1.3 billion, or 8.5 percent of revenue.
GAAP
operating income
Non-GAAP operating income
was $2.4 billion for the quarter and $5.2 billion over the last four quarters. Dell ended the quarter with a record high $16.2 billion in cash and investments and repurchased $1.1 billion in stock in the quarter.
Cash flow from operations
Fiscal-Year 2012 Second Quarter and Half Year Highlights
Information about Dells use of non-GAAP financial information is provided under Non-GAAP Financial Measures below. Non-GAAP financial information excludes costs related primarily to the amortization of purchased intangibles, severance and facility-action costs, certain settlement costs and acquisition-related charges. All comparisons in this press release are year over year unless otherwise noted.
Strategic Highlights:
Revenue for Dells commercial business was $12.8 billion, up 6 percent sequentially and 1 percent from a year ago.
Enterprise solutions and services revenue grew 4 percent to $4.6 billion in the quarter and represents 35 percent of Dells commercial revenue. Servers and networking revenue increased 9 percent year over year.
Dell Services revenue grew 6 percent to $2 billion. Dells total value of new services contracts signed in the last quarter is $1 billion and $1.3 billion year-to-date; and services backlog is now $15.4 billion up 11 percent from a year ago. Demand for Dell SecureWorks managed services offerings continued to expand, with more than 200 customers added during the quarter.
Dell-owned storage technology grew 15 percent in the quarter. The benefits of Dells mid-market design focus are evident in the success of EqualLogic, which continues to be a highly profitable line of storage products. In addition, revenue in the companys Compellent storage business grew 97 percent sequentially, after closing the acquisition in Q1.
The launch of Dell EqualLogic FS7500 during the quarter brings the first scale-out NAS and unified storage capabilities to the Dell EqualLogic platform. The FS7500 provides up to 10 times more file share scalability than legacy unified storage offerings. It is the industrys only scale-out solution optimized for mid-sized and smaller deployments. Dell also announced its next-generation Dell EqualLogic software, which includes enhanced, enterprise-class storage capability and automated load balancing.
Dell KACE, which added 600 new customers during Q2, also launched a significant addition to its portfolio of systems management solutions. The M300 Asset Management Appliance is the first desktop-management product designed specifically for small businesses with 20200 employees, and demonstrates Dells commitment to mid-market design.
Dell expects to close its acquisition of Force10 Networks in the third quarter. Force10 Networks is a leader in high-performance data center networking capabilities that complement and extend Dells data center solutions portfolio, enabling the company to address a broader range of customer needs with Dell intellectual property.
Dells core business remains healthy. Revenue for client products  desktop and laptop computers  was up sequentially 6 percent to $8.5 billion driven by seasonal strength in Public.
Business Units and Regions:
had$4.6 billion of revenue,up 1 percent from a year ago on strong demand for servers and services. Operating income was $448 million, or 9.8 percent of revenue. Enterprise solutions and services revenue was $1.9 billion, a 3 percent sequential increase. Revenue from client products grew 1 percent for the year and 4 percent sequentially.
Large Enterprise
had record operating income of $484 million or 10.9 percent of revenue. Revenue was $4.5 billion, up 18 percent sequentially and down 3 percent for the year. Enterprise solutions and services revenue was up 7 percent sequentially. Client product revenue increased 34 percent sequentially.
Public
had revenue of $3.7 billion, up 5 percent. Operating income was $404 million or 10.9 percent of revenue. Enterprise solutions and services revenue was up 16 percent, driven by a gain in servers of 17 percent; services of 17 percent, and storage of 11 percent.
Small and Medium Business
revenue was $2.9 billion, a 1 percent increase, with revenue for laptops and desktops up 4 percent. Operating income was $73 million or 2.5 percent of revenue.
Consumer
outside of the U.S. and Canada, Western Europe and Japan increased revenue 14 percent over the previous year and now account for 28 percent of Dells total revenue. Specifically, India and China were up 21 and 20 percent, respectively.
Growth countries
Quotes:
We continue to see great momentum in the high-growth areas of our business, which is a direct reflection of the discipline and strong execution our global Dell team is applying to help solve real-world challenges for our customers. Were creating efficiency across every step of the IT value chain and ultimately enabling all customersfrom home users to large businesses and government organizationsto achieve the outcomes that matter most to them.
Michael Dell, chairman and chief executive officer:
Our results for the first half of the fiscal year reflect our commitments and are enabling us to accelerate the reshaping of our portfolio while delivering substantially higher operating income. Were maintaining our focus on developing higher-value solutions and services to drive stronger profitability and smartly manage a balance of growth, increased operating income and cash flow.
Brian Gladden, chief financial officer:
Company Outlook:
Dell is focused on delivering IT solutions that provide both efficiency and flexibility, as the company aligns its business with large and faster growing markets, and creates a broader base of recurring revenue streams with higher profit potential. Based on consistent execution in the first half of the fiscal year, the continued management of lower-margin business and a positive mix shift to Dell intellectual property and higher-valued products, Dell is raising its non-GAAP operating income growth expectation for FY 2012 to 17-23 percent year-over-year from 12-18 percent. Based on strategic decisions to redirect resources from lower- to higher-value solutions and a more uncertain demand environment, the company also is revising its full-year revenue-growth outlook to 1-5 percent from the previous range of 5-9 percent. In the third quarter, Dell expects to see revenue roughly flat relative to Q2, which is in line with seasonality over the past two years.
About Dell
Dell Inc. (NASDAQ: DELL) listens to customers and delivers innovative technology and services that give them the power to do more. For more information, visit . As previously announced, the second quarter analyst call with Michael Dell, chairman and CEO; Brian Gladden, CFO; and Brad Anderson, senior vice president, Enterprise Solutions Group, will be webcast live today at 4 p.m. CDT and archived at . To monitor highlighted facts from the analyst call, follow on the Dell Investor Relations Twitter account at: or hashtag #DellEarnings. To communicate directly with Dell, go to .
www.dell.com
www.dell.com/investor
http://twitter.com/dellshares
www.dell.com/dellshares
Non-GAAP Financial Measures:
This press release includes information about non-GAAP operating income, non-GAAP net income, and non-GAAP earnings per share (collectively with non-GAAP gross margin and non-GAAP operating expenses, the non-GAAP financial measures), which are not measurements of financial performance prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. In the following tables, Dell has provided a reconciliation of each historical non-GAAP financial measure to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure under the heading Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures and has presented a detailed discussion of its reasons for including the non-GAAP financial measures and the limitations associated with those measures under the heading Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures. Dell encourages investors to review the reconciliation and the non-GAAP discussion in conjunction with Dells presentation of these non-GAAP financial measures.
Special Note on Forward-Looking Statements
:
Statements in this press release that relate to future results and events (including statements about Dells future financial and operating performance, anticipated customer demand, global market trends, customer market focus, sales structure strategies, enterprise solutions strategies, component costs, cost controls, supply chain improvements, strategic investments and timing of the close of the Force10 Networks acquisition, as well as the financial guidance with respect to revenue and non-GAAP operating income) are forward-looking statements and are based on Dell's current expectations. In some cases, you can identify these statements by such forward-looking words as anticipate, believe, could, estimate, expect, intend, confidence, may, plan, potential, should, will and would, or similar expressions. Actual results and events in future periods may differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements because of a number of risks, uncertainties and other factors, including: intense competition; Dells cost-cutting measures; Dells ability to effectively manage the growth of its distribution capabilities and add to its product and services offerings; Dells ability to effectively manage periodic product and services transitions; weak global economic conditions and instability in financial markets; Dells ability to generate substantial non-U.S. net revenue; weak economic conditions and additional regulation affecting Dells financial services activities; Dells ability to achieve favorable pricing from its vendors; Dells ability to deliver consistent quality products and services; Dells reliance on third-party suppliers for product components, including reliance on several single-sourced or limited-sourced suppliers; successful implementation of Dells acquisition strategy; Dells product, customer, and geographic sales mix, and seasonal sales trends; access to the capital markets by Dell or its customers; loss of government contracts; the risk of temporary suspension or debarment from contracting with U.S. federal, state and local governments as a result of settlements of an SEC investigation by Dell and Dells Chairman and CEO; customer terminations of or pricing changes in services contracts, or Dells failure to perform as it anticipates at the time it enters into services contracts; Dells ability to obtain licenses to intellectual property developed by others on commercially reasonable and competitive terms; information technology and manufacturing infrastructure disruptions or breaches of data security; Dells ability to hedge effectively its exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates; counterparty default; unfavorable results of legal proceedings; expiration of tax holidays or favorable tax rate structures, or unfavorable outcomes in tax audits and other compliance matters; Dells ability to attract, retain, and motivate key personnel; Dells ability to maintain strong internal controls; changing environmental and safety laws; the effect of armed hostilities, terrorism, natural disasters, and public health issues; and other risks and uncertainties discussed in Dells filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including its Annual Report on Form 10-K for its fiscal year ended Jan. 28, 2011. In particular, Dells expectations with regard to revenue and non-GAAP operating income for the full fiscal year ending Feb. 3, 2012 assume, among other matters, that there is no significant decline in economic conditions generally or demand growth specifically, no significant change in product mix patterns, continued successful management of lower-margin businesses, continued successful demand planning and forecasting, no supply chain disruptions, and no significant adverse component pricing or supply movements. Dell assumes no obligation to update its forward-looking statements.
Consolidated statements of income, financial position and cash flows and other financial data follow.
Dell, EqualLogic and Compellent are trademarks of Dell Inc. Dell disclaims any proprietary interest in the marks and names of others.
Other for the six months ended July 30, 2010 includes amounts for the $100 million settlement of the SEC investigation and a $40 million settlement for a securities litigation matter.
(1)
Days of sales outstanding (DSO) is based on the ending net trade receivables and most recent quarterly revenue for each period. DSO includes the effect of product costs related to customer shipments not yet recognized as revenue that are classified in the other current assets. At July 29, 2011, April 29, 2011, and July 30, 2010, DSO and days of customer shipments not yet recognized were 39 and 3 days, 37 and 3 days, 38 and 3 days, respectively.
(1)
Other for the six months ended July 30, 2010 includes amounts for the $100 million settlement of the SEC investigation and a $40 million settlement for a securities litigation matter.
(1)
USE OF NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES
Dell uses non-GAAP financial measures to supplement the financial information presented on a GAAP basis. Dell believes that excluding certain items from Dells GAAP results allows Dells management to better understand Dells consolidated financial performance from period to period and in relationship to the operating results of Dells segments, as management does not believe that the excluded items are reflective of Dell's underlying operating performance. Dell also believes that excluding certain items from Dells GAAP results allows Dells management to better project Dells future consolidated financial performance because Dells forecasts are developed at a level of detail different from that used to prepare GAAP-based financial measures. Moreover, Dell believes these non-GAAP financial measures will provide investors with useful information to help them evaluate Dell's operating results by facilitating an enhanced understanding of Dell's operating performance, and enabling them to make more meaningful period to period comparisons. Non-GAAP operating income growth as projected for Fiscal 2012, which is a forward looking non-GAAP financial measure, excludes acquisition-related charges, and amortization of purchased intangible assets related to acquisitions, some of which Dell cannot forecast with certainty or accuracy due to their inherently indefinite and contingent nature, thereby preventing Dell from reconciling its projections to GAAP. The historical non-GAAP financial measures, as defined by Dell, represent the comparable GAAP measures adjusted to exclude these same items as well as amounts for severance and facility charges, which were incurred in periods prior to the second quarter of Fiscal 2012, and the settlements related to the SEC investigation and a securities litigation matter, which were both incurred during the first quarter of Fiscal 2011. Dell provides more detail below regarding each of these items and our reasons for excluding them. In future fiscal periods, Dell expects that it may again exclude such items and may incur income and expenses similar to these excluded items. Accordingly, the exclusion of these items and other similar items in Dells non-GAAP presentation should not be interpreted as implying that these items are non-recurring, infrequent, or unusual.
The non-GAAP financial measures for the periods indicated in the tables above reflect adjustments related to the following items:
-- Acquisition-related charges are expensed as incurred and consist primarily of retention payments, integration costs, and other costs. Starting in the second quarter of Fiscal 2012, all severance and facility charges related to acquisitions are also included in acquisition-related costs. Previously, these costs were included in a separate caption for severance and facility actions described below. Acquisition-related severance and facility costs were not significant in prior periods. Retention payments include stock-based compensation and cash incentives awarded to employees, which are recognized over the vesting period. Integration costs include IT costs related to the integration of IT systems and processes, costs related to the integration of employees, costs related to full-time employees who are working on the integration, and consulting expenses. Acquisition-related charges are inconsistent in amount and are significantly impacted by the timing and nature of acquisitions. Therefore, although Dell may incur these types of expenses in connection with future acquisitions, Dell believes eliminating acquisition-related charges for purposes of calculating the non-GAAP financial measures facilitates a more meaningful evaluation of Dells current operating performance and comparisons to Dells past operating performance.
Acquisition-related Costs
-- Amortization of purchased intangible assets consists primarily of amortization of customer relationships, customer lists, acquired technology, trade names, and non-compete covenants purchased in connection with business acquisitions. Dell incurs charges relating to the amortization of these intangibles, and those charges are included in Dells consolidated financial statements. Amortization charges for Dells purchased intangible assets are inconsistent in amount and are significantly impacted by the timing and magnitude of Dells acquisitions. Consequently, Dell excludes these charges for purposes of calculating the non-GAAP financial measures to facilitate a more meaningful evaluation of Dells current operating performance and comparisons to Dells past operating performance.
Amortization of Intangible Assets
-- Severance and facility action costs primarily relate to facilities charges including accelerated depreciation and severance and benefits for employees terminated pursuant to actions taken as part of a comprehensive review of costs, which started in Fiscal 2009, and exclude any routine workforce reductions. These activities are substantially complete. As such, starting in the second quarter of Fiscal 2012, only charges for severance and facility actions associated with cost synergies related to strategic acquisitions are being excluded for the purposes of calculating the non-GAAP financial measures and will be included in acquisition-related costs discuss above. Dell excludes these severance and facility action costs for purposes of calculating the non-GAAP financial measures because it believes that these historical costs do not reflect expected future operating expenses and do not contribute to a meaningful evaluation of Dells current operating performance or comparisons to Dells past operating performance.
Severance and Facility Actions
-- Dell also adjusts its GAAP results for certain settlements. For the first quarter of Fiscal 2011, Dell recorded a $100 million settlement amount for the SEC investigation into certain of Dell's accounting and financial matters, which was initiated in 2005, and also incurred $40 million for a securities litigation class action lawsuit that was filed against Dell during Fiscal 2007. Dell is excluding these settlements from the operating results of Fiscal 2011 for the purpose of calculating the non-GAAP financial measures because it believes these settlements are outside Dells ordinary course of business and do not contribute to a meaningful evaluation of Dells current operating performance.
Other Fees and Settlements
The aggregate adjustment for income taxes is the estimated combined income tax effect for the adjustments mentioned above. The tax effects are determined based on the tax jurisdictions where the costs were incurred.
There are limitations to the use of non-GAAP financial measures. Dell's non-GAAP financial measures may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies. Other companies, including companies in Dells industry, may calculate the non-GAAP financial measures differently than Dell does, limiting the usefulness of those measures for comparative purposes. In addition, items such as amortization of purchased intangible assets represent the loss in value of intangible assets over time. The expense associated with this loss in value is not included in the non-GAAP financial measures and such measures, therefore, do not reflect the full economic effect of such loss. Further, items such as severance and facility action costs and acquisition expenses that are excluded from the non-GAAP financial measures can have a material impact on earnings. Dells management compensates for the foregoing limitations by relying on Dells GAAP results and using non-GAAP financial measures supplementally or for projections when comparable GAAP measures are not available. The non-GAAP financial measures are not meant to be considered as indicators of performance in isolation from or as substitutes for gross margin, operating expenses, operating income, net income, and earnings per share prepared in accordance with GAAP and should be read only in conjunction with financial information presented on a GAAP basis. Dell provides detailed reconciliations of each historical non-GAAP financial measure to its most directly comparable GAAP measure within the financial information included with this press release and in other written materials that include such non-GAAP historical financial measures, and Dell encourages investors to review the reconciliations in conjunction with the presentation of any historical non-GAAP financial measures.
CONTACT: Dell David Frink, 512-728-2678 or Jess Blackburn, 512-728-8295 or Robert Williams, 512-728-7570 or Frank Molina, 512-723-5116 or David Mehok, 512-728-4225
Media Contacts: 512-728-4100
david_frink@dell.com
jess_blackburn@dell.com
Investor Relations Contacts:
robert_williams@dell.com
frank_molina@dell.com
david_mehok@dell.com


