FILE:DELL/DELL-8K-20110517160630.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, DC 20549
________
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
________
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported):  
May 17, 2011
________
Dell Inc.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
Registrants telephone number, including area code:
(800) 289-3355
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 - 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 - 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 2.02  Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On May 17, 2011, Dell Inc. (Dell) issued a press release announcing its financial results for its fiscal quarter ended April 29, 2011. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
To supplement Dells condensed consolidated financial statements presented on the basis of accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP) which are furnished in Exhibit 99.1 to this report, Dell has presented information about non-GAAP gross margin, non-GAAP operating expenses, non-GAAP operating income, non-GAAP net income, and non-GAAP earnings per share (collectively, the non-GAAP financial measures), which are not measurements of financial performance under GAAP. A reconciliation of each historical non-GAAP financial measure to the most comparable GAAP financial measure for Dells fiscal quarter ended April 29, 2011 and certain prior fiscal periods is included in the tables set forth under the heading Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures in Exhibit 99.1. In addition, a discussion of Dell managements reasons for including these non-GAAP measures, the material limitations associated with the use of these non-GAAP measures, and the manner in which Dell management compensates for those limitations is included under Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures in Exhibit 99.1. This additional non-GAAP financial information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for net income, operating income, gross margin, operating expenses, and earnings per share prepared in accordance with GAAP.
In accordance with General Instruction B.2 to Form 8-K, the information contained in this current report, including Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto, is being furnished with the Securities and Exchange Commission and shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities under such section. Furthermore, such information shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, unless specifically identified as being incorporated therein by reference.
Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Dell herewith furnishes the following document as an exhibit to this report:
(d)  Exhibits
- 2 -
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
- 3 -
EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit 99.1
Dell Reports Record EPS on Strength of Enterprise Solutions and Services
Record earnings per share of 49 cents
Revenue of $15 billion and operating income of $1.2 billion
Enterprise solutions and services revenue up 5 percent to $4.4 billion led by server revenue increase of 11 percent
ROUND ROCK, Texas--(BUSINESS WIRE)--May 17, 2011--Dells strategy to deliver efficient and flexible information technology solutions that are open, capable and affordable continues to yield solid financial results. In the companys fiscal first quarter revenue improved and profit increased substantially on the strength of its commercial enterprise business.
In the past two years, Dell has made strategic acquisitions to address customers needs for next-generation computing solutions, intelligent data management, services, security and cloud offerings. Additionally, the company has announced plans to invest $1 billion this fiscal year to deliver new solutions, build cloud capabilities and add significant numbers of new engineering, development and solutions-based sales resources in the U.S. and globally to support its enterprise solutions and services focus. Key investments include the launch of vStart for faster provisioning of virtual machines, the build out of data centers to provide customers access to public and private cloud technologies, and new solution centers where customers can test their applications.
The strong first quarter results also reflect Dells improved profitability in end-user-computing, particularly Dells client desktop and laptop offerings. This improved performance is the result of a higher-value product portfolio, good cost management, better sales execution and a significantly improved supply chain.
Results
in the quarter increased 1 percent to $15 billion, with enterprise solutions and services accounting for 30 percent of the total.
Revenue
was 49 cents; was 55 cents.
GAAP earnings per share
non-GAAP EPS
was $1.2 billion, or 8.1 percent of revenue. was $1.4 billion, or 9.2 percent of revenue.
GAAP
operating income
Non-GAAP operating income
was $465 million for the quarter and $4.2 billion over the last four quarters. Dell ended the quarter with $15.2 billion in cash and investments.
Cash flow from operations
Information about Dells use of non-GAAP financial information is provided under Non-GAAP Financial Measures below. Non-GAAP financial information excludes costs related primarily to the amortization of purchased intangibles, severance and facility-action costs, certain settlement costs and acquisition-related charges. All comparisons in this press release are year over year unless otherwise noted.
Strategic Highlights:
Revenue for Dells commercial business improved 3 percent to $12 billion, with record profitability. Commercial services revenue increased 6 percent.
Enterprise solutions and services revenue grew 5 percent to $4.4 billion in the quarter and represents 30 percent of Dells consolidated revenue.
Servers and networking revenue increased 11 percent.
Dell-owned storage technology, which includes Compellent, EqualLogic, PowerVault and DX Object Storage, grew 11 percent in the quarter, offset by declines in EMC storage. The companys overall storage business revenue declined 13 percent. Dell closed the acquisition of Compellentduring the quarter, has already developed a strong pipeline of business and is on track with integration plans for the period.
Dell Services revenue grew 5 percent to $2 billion. Transactional support and outsourcing revenue were up 5 percent and 3 percent, respectively, while the project services business grew 13 percent. Dell also added enterprise-class security capability in Q1 with the closing of its acquisition of SecureWorks.
The company expanded its global financing capability during the quarter with the announcement of its intent to acquire from CIT Dell Financial Services (DFS) Canada Ltd., as well as CIT Vendor Finances Dell-related assets and sales and servicing functions in Europe.
Business Units and Regions:
had of $504 million, or 11.3 percent of revenue on $4.5 billion of revenue,up 5 percent from a year ago. Enterprise solutions and services revenue was $1.8 billion, a 2 percent increase. Revenue from desktop and laptop computers grew 7 percent as the client refresh among large corporate accounts continued.
Large Enterprise
record operating income
revenue was $3.8 billion, a 2 percent decline resulting from weaker spending on desktop and laptop products. Enterprise solutions and services revenue was up 3 percent Server revenues increased 9 percent. Operating income for the quarter was $370 million, or 9.8 percent of revenue.
Public
had in the quarter with to $3.8 billion, a two-year high driven by strong demand across all products and services. Operating income was $463 million, or 12.3 percent of revenue. Enterprise solutions and services revenue was up 16 percent, driven by a gain in servers of 19 percent; services of 16 percent, and storage of 7 percent.
Small and Medium Business
record profit
revenue up 7 percent
revenue was $3 billion, down 7 percent, as demand was softer than expected. However, profit significantly improved with operating income of $136 million, or 4.5 percent of revenue, benefiting from a simplified brand structure that now includes an improved line of Inspiron, re-launched XPS, and Alienware products, a shift to higher value products, and structural and component cost improvements in the supply chain.
Consumer
Revenue from growth markets (which excludes the U.S., Canada, Western Europe and Japan) grew 17 percent and represents 27 percent of total company revenue. Revenue from BRIC countries grew 18 percent, with India up 28 percent and China up 22 percent.
Quotes:
Were off to a solid start in our fiscal year 2012. Our substantial profit increase demonstrates that our strategy is working and our execution is improving.
Michael Dell, chairman and chief executive officer:
We continue to build momentum with our strategy to expand our enterprise solutions and services business, and its contributing to our strong financial results. We have built an $18 billion enterprise solutions and services business with exciting growth potential and our execution in the core client business continues to be very good. We are positioned to continue delivering value to our customers and investors.
Brian Gladden, chief financial officer:
Company Outlook:
Dell expects mid-single digit revenue growth in its second quarter, which is slightly above its normal, sequential seasonal growth of 2-3 percent. The Public business is expected to benefit from stronger spending among state and local governments and education customers as they close out their fiscal year. The company also expects its Small and Medium Business and Consumer businesses will experience above average seasonality due to the timing of demand for Dells Sandy Bridge based offerings, a solid consumer back-to-school spending season and a refreshed portfolio of XPS products. Dells updated outlook for fiscal 2012 includes revenue growth of 5-9 percent and an increase in non-GAAP operating income growth to 12-18 percent.
About Dell
Dell Inc. (NASDAQ: DELL) listens to customers and delivers innovative technology and services that give them the power to do more. For more information, visit . As previously announced, the first quarter analyst call with Michael Dell, chairman and CEO; Brian Gladden, CFO; and Paul Bell, president, Large Enterprise and Public, will be webcast live today at 4 p.m. CDT and archived at . To monitor highlighted facts from the analyst call, follow on the Dell Investor Relations Twitter account at: or hashtag #DellEarnings. To communicate directly with Dell, go to .
www.dell.com
www.dell.com/investor
http://twitter.com/dellshares
www.dell.com/dellshares
Non-GAAP Financial Measures:
This press release includes information about non-GAAP gross margin, non-GAAP operating expenses, non-GAAP operating income, non-GAAP net income, and non-GAAP earnings per share (collectively with non-GAAP operating expenses, the non-GAAP financial measures), which are not measurements of financial performance prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. In the following tables, Dell has provided a reconciliation of each historical non-GAAP financial measure to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure under the heading Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures and has presented a detailed discussion of its reasons for including the non-GAAP financial measures and the limitations associated with those measures under the heading Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures. Dell encourages investors to review the reconciliation and the non-GAAP discussion in conjunction with Dells presentation of these non-GAAP financial measures.
Special Note on Forward Looking Statements
:
Statements in this press release that relate to future results and events (including statements about Dells future financial and operating performance, planned capital expenditures, storage growth opportunities, anticipated customer demand, including seasonal trends and commercial momentum, enterprise solutions strategies, component costs, cost controls, supply chain improvements, and new products, as well as the financial guidance with respect to revenue and non-GAAP operating income) are forward-looking statements and are based on Dell's current expectations. In some cases, you can identify these statements by such forward-looking words as anticipate, believe, could, estimate, expect, intend, confidence, may, plan, potential, should, will and would, or similar expressions. Actual results and events in future periods may differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements because of a number of risks, uncertainties and other factors, including: intense competition; Dells cost-cutting measures; Dells ability to effectively manage the growth of its distribution capabilities and add to its product and services offerings; Dells ability to effectively manage periodic product and services transitions; weak global economic conditions and instability in financial markets; Dells ability to generate substantial non-U.S. net revenue; weak economic conditions and additional regulation affecting Dells financial services activities; Dells ability to achieve favorable pricing from its vendors; Dells ability to deliver consistent quality products and services; Dells reliance on third-party suppliers for product components, including reliance on several single-sourced or limited-sourced suppliers; successful implementation of Dells acquisition strategy; Dells product, customer, and geographic sales mix, and seasonal sales trends; access to the capital markets by Dell or its customers; loss of government contracts; the risk of temporary suspension or debarment from contracting with U.S. federal, state and local governments as a result of settlements of an SEC investigation by Dell and Dells Chairman and CEO; customer terminations of or pricing changes in services contracts, or Dells failure to perform as it anticipates at the time it enters into services contracts; Dells ability to obtain licenses to intellectual property developed by others on commercially reasonable and competitive terms; information technology and manufacturing infrastructure disruptions or breaches of data security; Dells ability to hedge effectively its exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates; counterparty default; unfavorable results of legal proceedings; expiration of tax holidays or favorable tax rate structures, or unfavorable outcomes in tax audits and other compliance matters; Dells ability to attract, retain, and motivate key personnel; Dells ability to maintain strong internal controls; changing environmental and safety laws; the effect of armed hostilities, terrorism, natural disasters, and public health issues; and other risks and uncertainties discussed in Dells filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including its Annual Report on Form 10-K for its fiscal year ended Jan. 28, 2011. In particular, Dells expectations with regard to revenue and non-GAAP operating income for the full fiscal year ending Feb. 3, 2012 assume, among other matters, that there is no significant decline in economic conditions generally or demand growth specifically, no significant change in product mix patterns, Dells ability to realize its pipeline opportunities, no supply chain disruptions, and no significant adverse component pricing or supply movements. Dell assumes no obligation to update its forward-looking statements.
Consolidated statements of income, financial position and cash flows and other financial data follow.
Dell, EqualLogic and PowerVault, are trademarks of Dell Inc. Dell disclaims any proprietary interest in the marks and names of others.
Other for the three months ended April 30, 2010 includes amounts for the $100 million settlement of the SEC investigation and a $40 million settlement for a securities litigation matter.
(1)
Note: Ratios are calculated based on underlying data in thousands.
Days of sales outstanding (DSO) is based on the ending net trade receivables and most recent quarterly revenue for each period. DSO includes the effect of product costs related to customer shipments not yet recognized as revenue that are classified in the other current assets. At April 29, 2011, January 28, 2011, and April 30, 2010, DSO and days of customer shipments not yet recognized were 37 and 3 days, 37 and 3 days, 35 and 3 days, respectively.
(1)
SUPPLEMENTAL NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES
The tables on the following pages set forth, for the periods indicated, a reconciliation of non-GAAP gross margin, non-GAAP operating expenses, non-GAAP operating income, non-GAAP net income, and non-GAAP earnings per share (collectively, the non-GAAP financial measures) to the most comparable GAAP financial measures. These non-GAAP financial measures may not be directly comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. See Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures following the tables for additional information regarding Dells reasons for including the non-GAAP financial measures and for material limitations with respect to the usefulness of these measures.
Other for the three months ended April 30, 2010 includes amounts for the $100 million settlement of the SEC investigation and a $40 million settlement for a securities litigation matter.
(1)
USE OF NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES
Dell uses non-GAAP financial measures to supplement the financial information presented on a GAAP basis. Dell believes that excluding certain items from Dells GAAP results allows Dells management to better understand Dells consolidated financial performance from period to period and in relationship to the operating results of Dells segments, as management does not believe that the excluded items are reflective of Dell's underlying operating performance. Dell also believes that excluding certain items from Dells GAAP results allows Dells management to better project Dells future consolidated financial performance because Dells forecasts are developed at a level of detail different from that used to prepare GAAP-based financial measures. Moreover, Dell believes these non-GAAP financial measures will provide investors with useful information to help them evaluate Dell's operating results by facilitating an enhanced understanding of Dell's operating performance, and enabling them to make more meaningful period to period comparisons. Non-GAAP operating income growth as projected for Fiscal 2012, which is a forward looking non-GAAP financial measure, excludes the following items, some of which Dell cannot forecast with certainty or accuracy due to their inherently indefinite and contingent nature, thereby preventing Dell from reconciling its projections to GAAP: acquisition-related charges, amortization of purchased intangible assets related to acquisitions, and severance and facility action costs. The historical non-GAAP financial measures, as defined by Dell, represent the comparable GAAP measures adjusted to exclude these same items as well as amounts for the settlement of the SEC investigation, and the settlement of a securities litigation matter, which were both incurred during the first quarter of Fiscal 2011. Dell provides more detail below regarding each of these items and our reasons for excluding them. In future fiscal periods, Dell expects that it may again exclude such items and may incur income and expenses similar to these excluded items. Accordingly, the exclusion of these items and other similar items in Dells non-GAAP presentation should not be interpreted as implying that these items are non-recurring, infrequent, or unusual.
The non-GAAP financial measures for the periods indicated in the tables above reflect adjustments related to the following items:
Acquisition-related Costs - Acquisition-related charges are expensed as incurred and consist primarily of retention payments, integration costs, and other costs. Retention payments include stock-based compensation and cash incentives awarded to employees, which are recognized over the vesting period. Integration costs include incremental business costs that are primarily attributable to the acquisition of Perot Systems during the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2010 and are being incurred during the integration period. These costs primarily include IT costs related to the integration of IT systems and processes, costs related to the integration of Perot Systems employees, costs related to full-time employees who are working on the integration, and consulting expenses. Acquisition-related charges are inconsistent in amount and are significantly impacted by the timing and nature of acquisitions. Therefore, although Dell may incur these types of expenses in connection with future acquisitions, Dell believes eliminating acquisition-related charges for purposes of calculating the non-GAAP financial measures facilitates a more meaningful evaluation of Dells current operating performance and comparisons to Dells past operating performance.
Amortization of Intangible Assets - Amortization of purchased intangible assets consists primarily of amortization of customer relationships, customer lists, acquired technology, trade names, and non-compete covenants purchased in connection with business acquisitions. Dell incurs charges relating to the amortization of these intangibles, and those charges are included in Dells consolidated financial statements. Amortization charges for Dells purchased intangible assets are inconsistent in amount and are significantly impacted by the timing and magnitude of Dells acquisitions. Consequently, Dell excludes these charges for purposes of calculating the non-GAAP financial measures to facilitate a more meaningful evaluation of Dells current operating performance and comparisons to Dells past operating performance.
Severance and Facility Actions - Severance and facility action costs primarily relate to facilities charges including accelerated depreciation and severance and benefits for employees terminated pursuant to actions taken as part of a comprehensive review of costs, including certain employee cost synergies realized through our strategic acquisitions. While Dell does expect to continue to incur severance and facility costs with any new cost reduction activities, Dell excludes these severance and facility action costs for purposes of calculating the non-GAAP financial measures because it believes that these historical costs do not reflect expected future operating expenses and do not contribute to a meaningful evaluation of Dells current operating performance or comparisons to Dells past operating performance.
Other Fees and Settlements - Dell also adjusts its GAAP results for certain settlements. For the first quarter of Fiscal 2011, Dell recorded a $100 million settlement amount for the SEC investigation into certain of Dell's accounting and financial matters, which was initiated in 2005, and also incurred $40 million for a securities litigation class action lawsuit that was filed against Dell during Fiscal 2007. Dell is excluding these settlements from the operating results of Fiscal 2011 for the purpose of calculating the non-GAAP financial measures because it believes these settlements are outside Dells ordinary course of business and do not contribute to a meaningful evaluation of Dells current operating performance.
The aggregate adjustment for income taxes is the estimated combined income tax effect for the adjustments mentioned above. The tax effects are determined based on the jurisdictions where the adjustments were incurred.
There are limitations to the use of non-GAAP financial measures. Dell's non-GAAP financial measures may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies. Other companies, including companies in Dells industry, may calculate the non-GAAP financial measures differently than Dell does, limiting the usefulness of those measures for comparative purposes. In addition, items such as amortization of purchased intangible assets represent the loss in value of intangible assets over time. The expense associated with this loss in value is not included in the non-GAAP financial measures and such measures, therefore, do not reflect the full economic effect of such loss. Further, items such as severance and facility action costs and acquisition expenses that are excluded from the non-GAAP financial measures can have a material impact on earnings. Dells management compensates for the foregoing limitations by relying on Dells GAAP results and using non-GAAP financial measures supplementally or for projections when comparable GAAP measures are not available. The non-GAAP financial measures are not meant to be considered as indicators of performance in isolation from or as substitutes for gross margin, operating expenses, operating income, net income, and earnings per share prepared in accordance with GAAP and should be read only in conjunction with financial information presented on a GAAP basis. Dell provides detailed reconciliations of each historical non-GAAP financial measure to its most directly comparable GAAP measure within the financial information included with this press release and in other written materials that include such non-GAAP historical financial measures, and Dell encourages investors to review the reconciliations in conjunction with the presentation of any historical non-GAAP financial measures.
CONTACT: Dell David Frink, 512-728-2678 or Jess Blackburn, 512-728-8295 or Robert Williams, 512-728-7570 or Frank Molina, 512-723-5116
Media: 512-728-4100
david_frink@dell.com
jess_blackburn@dell.com
Investor Relations:
robert_williams@dell.com
frank_molina@dell.com


