FILE:DELL/DELL-8K-20110215161422.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, DC 20549
________
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
________
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported):  
February 15, 2011
________
Dell Inc.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
Registrants telephone number, including area code:
(800) 289-3355
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 - 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 - 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 2.02  Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On February 15, 2011, Dell Inc. (Dell) issued a press release announcing its financial results for its fiscal quarter and fiscal year ended January 28, 2011. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
To supplement Dells condensed consolidated financial statements presented on the basis of accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP) which are furnished in Exhibit 99.1 to this report, Dell has presented information about non-GAAP gross margin, non-GAAP operating expenses, non-GAAP operating income, non-GAAP net income, and non-GAAP earnings per share (collectively, the non-GAAP financial measures), which are not measurements of financial performance under GAAP. A reconciliation of each historical non-GAAP financial measure to the most comparable GAAP financial measure for Dells fiscal quarter and fiscal year ended January 28, 2011 and certain prior fiscal periods is included in the tables set forth under the heading Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures in Exhibit 99.1. In addition, a discussion of Dell managements reasons for including the non-GAAP financial measures, the material limitations associated with the use of the non-GAAP financial measures, and the manner in which Dell management compensates for those limitations is included under Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures in Exhibit 99.1. This additional non-GAAP financial information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for net income, operating income, gross margin, operating expenses, and earnings per share prepared in accordance with GAAP.
In accordance with General Instruction B.2 to Form 8-K, the information contained in this current report, including Exhibit 99.1 hereto, is being furnished with the Securities and Exchange Commission and shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities under such section. Furthermore, such information shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, unless specifically identified as being incorporated therein by reference.
Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Dell herewith furnishes the following document as an exhibit to this report:
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit 99.1
Dell Delivers Record Results in Fiscal-Year 2011 Fourth Quarter and Full Year
Record earnings per share in fiscal fourth quarter
Enterprise solutions and services revenue up 27 percent for full year
Revenue increase of $8.6 billion in FY11  largest single-year increase in company history
ROUND ROCK, Texas--(BUSINESS WIRE)--February 15, 2011--Dells expanding strength as an enterprise solutions provider and continued strong execution during the fiscal fourth quarter drove record results and one of the companys most successful financial quarters ever.
Results
in the quarter was $15.7 billion and totaled $61.5 billion for the fiscal year, an $8.6 billion or 16 percent increase from the previous fiscal year, including the impact of acquisitions.
Revenue
The company had its highest operating income in five years. was $1.1 billion, or 7.3 percent of revenue. was $1.3 billion, or 8.2 percent of revenue.
GAAP
operating income
Non-GAAP operating income
was a record 48 cents; was 53 cents.
GAAP earnings per share
non-GAAP EPS
in the quarter was 21 percent and 18.5 percent for the year. was 21.5 percent in the quarter and 19.1 percent for the year, the result of record profitability in the enterprise solutions and services business, lower component costs and strong commercial execution.
GAAP
gross margin
Non-GAAP gross margin
was $1.5 billion, and Dell ended the quarter with $15 billion in cash and investments.
Cash flow from operations
Fiscal-Year 2011 Fourth Quarter and Full Year Highlights
Information about Dells use of non-GAAP financial information is provided under Non-GAAP Financial Measures below. Non-GAAP financial information excludes costs related primarily to the amortization of purchased intangibles, severance and facility-action costs, a merger termination fee, certain settlement costs and acquisition-related charges. All comparisons in this press release are year over year unless otherwise noted.
Strategic Highlights:
Revenue for enterprise solutions and services grew 7 percent to $4.6 billion in the quarter and now represents 29 percent of the companys consolidated revenue. Server revenue increased 16 percent. EqualLogic sales grew 49 percent and, combined with Dell PowerVault sales, accounted for almost two-thirds of the companys storage revenue and more than 80 percent of the companys storage gross margin dollars. Revenue for the combined Large Enterprise, Public and SMB businesses was up 9 percent to $12.4 billion in the quarter, with revenue for commercial laptop and desktop computers growing 10 percent.
Strong demand and profitability across all commercial business segments drove consolidated GAAP operating income of $1.1 billion, or 7.3 percent of revenue. Non-GAAP operating income was $1.3 billion, a 61 percent increase and 8.2 percent of revenue.
Client profitability improved notably in the second half of the year driven by solid supply-chain performance, lower input costs and improved product quality. The companys product availability improved 37 percent and order-to-delivery times improved 33 percent over the previous year. For the full year, client revenue grew 14 percent to $33.7 billion driven by a continuing corporate refresh cycle.
Dell Services revenue grew one percent to $1.9 billion as the company delivered on its first-year revenue and cost-synergy targets associated with the successful integration of Perot Systems. The services organization now has annual revenue of $7.7 billion.
Dell extended its core capabilities in the quarter and exited the year with a significantly enhanced enterprise solutions and services portfolio. The company is making sustained organic and inorganic investments to build its intellectual property and provide customers optimal, open and affordable solutions. Among these investments are the recently completed acquisitions of ., a provider of information-security services; , which offers a Software-as-a-Service platform to ease data exchange between cloud-based and on-premise applications; and , a leader in cloud-based medical archiving solutions.
SecureWorks Inc
Boomi
Insite One
Business Units and Regions:
revenue was $4.7 billion,up 12 percent from a year ago. Operating income was $502 million, or 10.7 percent of revenue and a 26 percent sequential increase. Enterprise solutions and services revenue was $1.9 billion, a 5 percent increase, with server revenue up 14 percent. Revenue from desktop and laptop computers grew 20 percent as the strong client refresh among large corporate accounts continued.
Large Enterprise
revenue was $4 billion, a 4 percent increase driven by strong server and storage sales. Operating income for the quarter was $366 million, or 9.2 percent of revenue. For the full year, Public delivered strong performance with operating income of $1.5 billion, or 8.8 percent of revenue. Server revenue growth of 13 percent and storage growth of 12 percent balanced demand decline for desktop and laptop computers.
Public
revenue was $3.7 billion, up 12 percent to its highest level in two years. SMB had another quarter of record profitability, with operating income hitting $450 million in the quarter, or 12 percent of revenue. Server revenue was up 22 percent and storage revenue was up 20 percent. Revenue for desktop computers and mobile devices increased 10 percent. During the quarter, Dell added the Vostro V130 ultraportable laptop for mobile entrepreneurs.
Small and Medium Business
revenue was $3.3 billion, up 11 percent sequentially but, as expected, down year over year by 8 percent relative to a strong Windows 7 launch last year. Operating income was $69 million, or 2.1 percent of revenue. Dell introduced the Inspiron duo, which has a unique flip-hinge design to combine the simplicity of a tablet and the functionality of a laptop with full keyboard.
Consumer
revenue grew 17 percent, increased 3 percent and the were up 3 percent. Revenue in Brazil, Russia, India and China (BRIC) grew 21 percent and represents 13 percent of total company revenue. For the full year, revenue in those countries was up 38 percent.
Asia-Pacific and Japan
EMEA
Americas
Quotes:
Im very pleased with our fiscal year results and the strong performance were seeing in our commercial businesses. We remain focused on developing and acquiring new technologies and capabilities, and our IT solutions portfolio has never been stronger. Customers are now seeing Dell in a fresh light, and were heading into the new year with strength and optimism.
Michael Dell, chairman and chief executive officer:
Our outstanding fourth quarter and full-year results align well with our long-term value creation framework, and were pleased with the sustainable operational improvements weve made across the company, including in our consumer business. With our strong cash flow, solid balance sheet and improving overall profitability, we believe we are well positioned to deliver strong performance for our shareholders.
Brian Gladden, chief financial officer:
Company Outlook:
For its fiscal-year 2012, Dell expects revenue growth of 5 to 9 percent, non-GAAP operating income growth of 6 to 12 percent, and continued strong execution on cash flow with cash flow from operations exceeding net income. In its first quarter of fiscal-year 2012, Dell expects normal seasonal declines in its consumer and public businesses and, as such, a slight sequential decline in revenue.
About Dell
Dell Inc. (NASDAQ: DELL) listens to customers and delivers worldwide innovative technology, business solutions and services they trust and value. For more information, visit . As previously announced, the fourth-quarter analyst call with Michael Dell, chairman and CEO; Brian Gladden, CFO; and Steve Schuckenbrock, senior vice president, Dell Services, will be webcast live today at 4:00 CST and archived at . To monitor highlighted facts from the analyst call, follow on the Dell Investor Relations Twitter account at: or hashtag #DellEarnings. To communicate directly with Dell, go to .
www.dell.com
www.dell.com/investor
http://twitter.com/dellshares
www.dell.com/dellshares
Non-GAAP Financial Measures:
This press release includes information about non-GAAP gross margin, non-GAAP operating income, non-GAAP net income, and non-GAAP earnings per share (collectively with non-GAAP operating expenses, the non-GAAP financial measures), which are not measurements of financial performance prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. In the following tables, Dell has provided a reconciliation of each historical non-GAAP financial measure to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure under the heading Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures and has presented a detailed discussion of its reasons for including the non-GAAP financial measures and the limitations associated with those measures under the heading Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures. Dell encourages investors to review the reconciliation and the non-GAAP discussion in conjunction with Dells presentation of these non-GAAP financial measures.
Special Note on Forward Looking Statements
:
Statements in this press release that relate to future results and events (including statements about Dells future financial and operating performance, announced and planned acquisitions, anticipated customer demand, including seasonal trends and commercial momentum, enterprise solutions strategies, component costs, cost controls, supply chain improvements, and new products, as well as the financial guidance with respect to revenue and non-GAAP operating income) are forward-looking statements and are based on Dell's current expectations. In some cases, you can identify these statements by such forward-looking words as anticipate, believe, could, estimate, expect, intend, confidence, may, plan, potential, should, will and would, or similar expressions. Actual results and events in future periods may differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements because of a number of risks, uncertainties and other factors, including: weak global economic conditions and instability in financial markets; weak economic conditions and additional regulation affecting Dells financial services activities; intense competition; Dells cost-cutting measures; Dells ability to effectively manage periodic product and services transitions; Dells ability to effectively manage the growth of its distribution capabilities and add to its product and services offerings; Dells ability to achieve favorable pricing from its vendors; Dells reliance on third-party suppliers for product components, including reliance on several single-sourced or limited-sourced suppliers; disruptions in component or product availability; successful implementation of Dells acquisition strategy; Dells ability to generate substantial non-U.S. net revenue; Dells product, customer, and geographic sales mix, and seasonal sales trends; Dells ability to access the capital markets; loss of government contracts; customer terminations of or pricing changes in services contracts, or Dells failure to perform as it anticipates at the time it enters into services contracts; Dells ability to hedge effectively its exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates; counterparty default; unfavorable results of legal proceedings; Dells ability to obtain licenses to intellectual property developed by others on commercially reasonable and competitive terms; expiration of tax holidays or favorable tax rate structures, or unfavorable outcomes in tax audits and other compliance matters; Dells ability to maintain strong internal controls; changing environmental and safety laws; the effect of armed hostilities, terrorism, natural disasters, and public health issues; information technology and manufacturing infrastructure disruptions or breaches of data security; Dells ability to attract, retain, and motivate key personnel; the risk of temporary suspension or debarment from contracting with U.S. federal, state and local governments as a result of settlements of an SEC investigation by Dell and Dells Chairman and CEO; and other risks and uncertainties discussed in Dells filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including its Annual Report on Form 10-K for its fiscal year ended Jan. 29, 2010 and its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended July 30, 2010. In particular, Dells expectations with regard to revenue and non-GAAP operating income for the full fiscal year ending Feb. 3, 2012 assume, among other matters, that there is no significant decline in economic conditions generally or demand growth specifically, no delays in pursuing the enterprise strategy, no supply chain disruptions, and no significant adverse component pricing or supply movements. Dell assumes no obligation to update its forward-looking statements.
Consolidated statements of income, financial position and cash flows and other financial data follow. Dell, EqualLogic, PowerVault, Vostro and Inspiron are trademarks of Dell Inc. Dell disclaims any proprietary interest in the marks and names of others.
SUPPLEMENTAL NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES
The tables on the following pages set forth, for the periods indicated, a reconciliation of non-GAAP gross margin, non-GAAP operating expenses, non-GAAP operating income, non-GAAP net income, and non-GAAP earnings per share (collectively, the non-GAAP financial measures) to the most comparable GAAP financial measures. These non-GAAP financial measures may not be directly comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. See Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures following the tables for additional information regarding Dells reasons for including the non-GAAP financial measures and for material limitations with respect to the usefulness of these measures.
USE OF NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES
Dell uses non-GAAP financial measures to supplement the financial information presented on a GAAP basis. Dell believes that excluding certain items from Dells GAAP results allows Dells management to better understand Dells consolidated financial performance from period to period and in relationship to the operating results of Dells segments, as management does not believe that the excluded items are reflective of Dell's underlying operating performance. Dell also believes that excluding certain items from Dells GAAP results allows Dells management to better project Dells future consolidated financial performance because Dells forecasts are developed at a level of detail different from that used to prepare GAAP-based financial measures. Moreover, Dell believes these non-GAAP financial measures will provide investors with useful information to help them evaluate Dell's operating results by facilitating an enhanced understanding of Dell's operating performance, and enabling them to make more meaningful period to period comparisons. Non-GAAP operating income growth as projected for Fiscal 2012, which is a forward looking non-GAAP financial measure, excludes the following items, some of which Dell cannot forecast with certainty or accuracy due to their inherently indefinite and contingent nature, thereby preventing Dell from reconciling its projections to GAAP: acquisition related charges, amortization of purchased intangible assets related to acquisitions, and severance and facility action costs. The historical non-GAAP financial measures, as defined by Dell, represent the comparable GAAP measures adjusted to exclude these same items as well as a merger termination fee that was received during the third quarter of Fiscal 2011, and amounts for the settlement of the SEC investigation as well as a securities litigation matter that were incurred during the first quarter of Fiscal 2011. Dell provides more detail below regarding each of these items and our reasons for excluding them. In future fiscal periods, Dell expects that it may again exclude such items and may incur income and expenses similar to these excluded items. Accordingly, the exclusion of these items and other similar items in Dells non-GAAP presentation should not be interpreted as implying that these items are non-recurring, infrequent, or unusual.
The non-GAAP financial measures for the periods indicated in the tables above reflect adjustments related to the following items:
Acquisition-related Costs - Acquisition-related charges are expensed as incurred and consist primarily of retention payments, integration costs, bankers fees, legal fees, and consulting fees. Retention payments include stock-based compensation and cash incentives awarded to employees, which are recognized over the vesting period. Integration costs include incremental business costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition of Perot Systems during the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2010 and are being incurred during the integration period. These costs primarily include IT costs related to the integration of IT systems and processes, costs related to the integration of Perot Systems employees, costs related to full-time employees who are working on the integration, and consulting expenses. Acquisition-related charges are inconsistent in amount and are significantly impacted by the timing and nature of acquisitions. Therefore, although Dell may incur these types of expenses in connection with future acquisitions, Dell believes eliminating acquisition-related charges for purposes of calculating the non-GAAP financial measures facilitates a more meaningful evaluation of Dells current operating performance and comparisons to Dells past operating performance.
Amortization of Intangible Assets - Amortization of purchased intangible assets consists primarily of amortization of customer relationships, customer lists, acquired technology, trade names, and non-compete covenants purchased in connection with business acquisitions. Dell incurs charges relating to the amortization of these intangibles, and those charges are included in Dells consolidated financial statements. Amortization charges for Dells purchased intangible assets are inconsistent in amount and are significantly impacted by the timing and magnitude of Dells acquisitions. Consequently, Dell excludes these charges for purposes of calculating the non-GAAP financial measures to facilitate a more meaningful evaluation of Dells current operating performance and comparisons to Dells past operating performance.
Severance and Facility Actions - Severance and facility action costs primarily relate to facilities charges including accelerated depreciation and severance and benefits for employees terminated pursuant to actions taken as part of a comprehensive review of costs, including certain employee cost synergies realized through our strategic acquisitions. While Dell does expect to continue to incur severance and facility costs with any new cost reduction activities, Dell excludes these severance and facility action costs for purposes of calculating the non-GAAP financial measures because it believes that these historical costs do not reflect expected future operating expenses and do not contribute to a meaningful evaluation of Dells current operating performance or comparisons to Dells past operating performance.
Other Fees and Settlements - Dell also adjusts its GAAP results for certain fees and settlements. During the third quarter of Fiscal 2011, Dell received a $72 million fee in connection with the termination of a merger agreement. For the first quarter of Fiscal 2011, Dell recorded a $100 million settlement amount for the SEC investigation into certain of Dell's accounting and financial matters, which was initiated in 2005, and also incurred $40 million for a securities litigation class action lawsuit that was filed against Dell during Fiscal 2007. Dell is excluding these fees and settlements from the operating results of Fiscal 2011 for the purpose of calculating the non-GAAP financial measures because it believes these fees and settlements are outside Dells ordinary course of business and do not contribute to a meaningful evaluation of Dells current operating performance.
The aggregate adjustment for income taxes is the estimated combined income tax effect for the adjustments mentioned above. The tax effects are determined based on the jurisdictions where the adjustments were incurred.
There are limitations to the use of non-GAAP financial measures. Dell's non-GAAP financial measures may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies. Other companies, including companies in Dells industry, may calculate the non-GAAP financial measures differently than Dell does, limiting the usefulness of those measures for comparative purposes. In addition, items such as amortization of purchased intangible assets represent the loss in value of intangible assets over time. The expense associated with this loss in value is not included in the non-GAAP financial measures and such measures, therefore, do not reflect the full economic effect of such loss. Further, items such as severance and facility action costs and acquisition expenses that are excluded from the non-GAAP financial measures can have a material impact on earnings. Dells management compensates for the foregoing limitations by relying primarily on Dells GAAP results and using non-GAAP financial measures only supplementally or for projections when comparable GAAP measures are not available. The non-GAAP financial measures are not meant to be considered as indicators of performance in isolation from or as substitute for gross margin, operating expenses, operating income, net income, and earnings per share prepared in accordance with GAAP and should be read only in conjunction with financial information presented on a GAAP basis. Dell provides detailed reconciliations of each historical non-GAAP financial measure to its most directly comparable GAAP measure within the financial information included with this press release and in other written materials that include such non-GAAP historical financial measures, and Dell encourages investors to review the reconciliations in conjunction with the presentation of any historical non-GAAP financial measures.
CONTACT: Dell David Frink, 512-728-2678 or Jess Blackburn, 512-728-8295 or Robert Williams, 512-728-7570 or Frank Molina, 512-723-5116
Media: 512-728-4100
david_frink@dell.com
jess_blackburn@dell.com
Investor Relations:
robert_williams@dell.com
frank_molina@dell.com


